6665hear64hearhear63hearhear62hearcheershearloud cheers and some laughter61hearhear, hearhear, hear60Spoke from behind the ministerial bench. rose to move an Address. Having just heard, in common with the other members of this honourable House, his Majesty's most gracious Speech, it becomes my duty to move an Address thereon, and to advert to the topics which that Speech embraces. Before, however, I enter on these topics in detail, and in the order in which they are presented to me, I will, as concisely as I can, explain the reason which has urged me to undertake that duty, and to place me in a situation as novel to myself as it may be deemed peculiar by many who now hear me, inasmuch as I appear, after being a member of the House for seventeen years, this night, for the first time, at this side of it, and during that period having taken very little share in the debates. [6665hear64hearhear63hearhear62hearcheershearloud cheers and some laughter61hearhear, hearhear, hear60Spoke from behind the ministerial bench.The Earl of Darlington
 said, it might be perfectly practicable to supply part of the information which the honourable member sought; but as to the number of persons attending, he really did not see whose business it could be to make returns upon that subject; certainly there were no official means of arriving at the information. As far as the motion could be, it should be complied with.—Motion agreed to.Mr. Secretary Peel
hear and a laugh73Jefferson's Memoirs and Correspondence,ten minutes at a time,*Jefferson's Memoirs and Correspondence,ten minutes at a time,** seconded the amendment. He would not detain the House long; and he thought it would be well if hon. Members in their speeches bore in mind what Jeffersonhear and a laugh73Jefferson's Memoirs and Correspondence,ten minutes at a time,*Jefferson's Memoirs and Correspondence,ten minutes at a time,**The Marquis of Blandford
hearhearhearhear, hear83***82 said, he had never been better pleased with any speech than with that of the hon. member who had just sat down. He trusted that the hon. baronet who moved the first amendment would withdraw it in favour of that just proposed, which seemed more fully to express what he trusted was the sense of the House, because it was much nearer the truth. Feeling so strongly as he did on the present occasion, he would give his hearty concurrence to any and every amendment which had for its object an inquiry into the existing distress. He must confess that, looking to the extreme distress of the country, he expected more from the royal Speech on the present occasion than he usually did on similar ones; but looking at the distress of the country, knowing that it was not confined to any particular place, he was surprised at the paragraph in the King's Speech. The paragraph about economy might be taken from every King's Speech during the last four years. The year 1826 was one of great calamity, so was the following-year, yet we were always assured that a system of the greatest economy would be observed. As to the noble duke at the head of the government, he knew of no individual in whom he could sooner place confidence; but, after past experience, he felt it impossible to place confidence in any man. In the year 1817 we were assured of a plan of strict economy, afterwards our army was reduced, and in the next year an increase took place. After this, could the House place confidence in what was stated by ministers? He knew from experience that it was impossible for a member of that House to place confidence in any ministers without its interfering with the strict performance of his duty. The royal Speech stated, that our exports had increased. The same thing was stated last year, and
hearhearhearhear, hear83***82Mr. Ald. Waithman
hear, hearlaughter, and cries of hear!hear, hearhear, hear88hear87. — I should have contented myself by being silent this evening, if an hon. member had not adverted to a statement made which may go into society; and I feel that I owe it to my own character, and that it is due to the House, that I should give an explanation of the motives that actuate the class of the community to which I belong, as it will also serve to shew why I shall vote as I intend to do. If his majesty's ministers had simply announced that the distress did not affect one interest merely, but that
hear, hearlaughter, and cries of hear!hear, hearhear, hear88hear87Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, he had no doubt that his majesty's ministers would do all in their power to relieve the distresses of the country; but at all events the House must do its duty; and with such feelings he should support the amendment, which more accurately described the distresses of the country.Sir J. Sebright
hearhear91hearhear, hearloud cheersde novo,hear, hear90hearhear, hear89 said, that for
hearhear91hearhear, hearloud cheersde novo,hear, hear90hearhear, hear89The Chan. of the Exchequer
93l.laughterhear92 said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the Speech which he had just concluded, appeared to think that the sole object of the hon. baronet, and of those who supported his amendment, was to alter the standard of value, or to return wholly to a paper currency. Such was by no means the fact; and he (Mr. Maberly) would, on a future occasion, tell the right hon. gentleman how a paper currency might be adopted without once touching the standard of value. For his part, he had not heard from the hon. baronet that he wanted either an alteration of the standard, or an equitable adjustment, or any such thing. The principle on which the hon. baronet had dealt with the Speech was, that he did not consider it sufficiently explicit of the intentions of his majesty's ministers. It was quite clear that ministers were bound to propose some remedy for the evils that prevailed. Did they not know that the alteration of the currency caused the distress? He maintained that a great deal both of distress and difficulty might have been avoided by more careful measures respect-
93l.laughterhear92Mr. Maberly
hear, hear112hearhearhear111hearl.110hear109l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,108107hearhearcheershear106***105hearhear, hear104"Invietæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant."—"Paribus se legibus ambæ103hearhear and laughter102 said, he certainly was not surprised to hear his right hon. friend say, that the chief recommendation of the hon. baronet's amendment in his eyes consisted in its being "a milk-and-water amendment," because when he recollected the votes uniformly given by his right hon. friend, and the doctrines which he had uniformly held, he must say, that the smallest possible infusion of milk in the
hear, hear112hearhearhear111hearl.110hear109l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,108107hearhearcheershear106***105hearhear, hear104"Invietæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant."—"Paribus se legibus ambæ103hearhear and laughter102Mr. Sec. Peel
hearhearhear supported the Address, because he considered the amendment a mere quibble upon words. [hearhearhearMr. Mildmay
hearhearhear116 said, it was his intention to support the amendment, because it painted the distress of the country correctly, which the Address did not. The right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had called upon the House not to support the amendment, until it had further evidence of the distress which pervaded all classes. He was at a loss to conceive what evidence the right hon. gentleman would have, if he were not content with that which he had got already. He had the evidence of the noble lord who moved the Address,
hearhearhear116Mr. Duncombe
117 said, if he could bring himself to believe that upon the issue of this debate the continuance of the present ministers in office was to depend, so grateful was he to them for the great benefit which
117Mr. Rice
.—If the support of the Address could imply that any inquiry into the existing state of distress were denied, or even not likely to be inquired into, by the government or that House, he would evince a readiness to entertain the Amendment; but when he thought the contrary was the fact, he could not bring himself to the same conclusion as his hon. friends near him. Respecting the omission of Ireland in the Address, he wished to give a hint to the hon. member for Clare, an old debater in public life elsewhere, though young in that House; and it was to caution him against affording his prompt assistance to the hon. members for whom he had this night tendered his vote. There was certainly great distress in Ireland, but nothing equal to the extent in which it pervaded England. Let his hon. friend therefore take care how he gave his support to men, under the notion that he was serving Ireland, who might hereafter turn round and object to the importation of Irish produce, which ought to have as free an admission into the English market as that of Scotland, or of the counties of England, and propose their measures of poor-laws, or others of a similar nature, for the sister kingdom.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
119 said, he should vote in favour of the Address, which had described the prevailing distress, but had not encouraged exaggerated estimates of it, while it left every thing open for fair and distinct consideration. He entreated the House to consider what the impression would be of sending forth to the public
119Colonel Wood
120hear, hearhear.—I only rise to state in a few words my reasons for voting for the Amendment, and thereby to guard myself against misconstruction. I feel great regret, and I say it most unfeignedly, at the course I am obliged to take; and I may say with the hon. member for Northamptonshire (lord Althorp), that I never came into the House with less expectation of being driven to vote for an Amendment than this night. If I could persuade myself that the difference between the Address and the Amendment was only a matter of words and form, and not of important sense and substance, in the present state of the country I should unhesitatingly have supported the Address. I deplore extremely the expressions which ministers have thought fit to introduce into the king's Speech. Whether they were or were not aware of it at the time it was framed I know not; but I can only ask myself this question—In what sense will these words be taken by the suffering, the deeply suffering, people of this empire! [120hear, hearhearMr. Brougham
hear, hearhearcheers114hear said, he must contend that the terms of his majesty's Speech had not been treated fairly in the amendment proposed by the hon. baronet. In his opinion the terms of his majesty's Speech, as far as they had reference to Ireland, were even more logically true than the terms of the hon. baronet's amendment. He thought too that unjust advantage had been taken of the speech of his right hon. friend the chancellor of the Exchequer. His right hon. friend had not said that there was no distress in Ireland. He should like to see the man who would venture to say that there ever had been a period from the time of bishop Boulter, down to the present, in which no distress existed in Ireland. [hear, hearhearcheers114hearLord P. Leveson Gower
98,000,0001828
98,000,000182896,000,0001827
96,000,000182770,000,0001826
70,000,000182657,000,000 of yards1825
57,000,000 of yards1825
98,000,0001828
98,000,000182896,000,0001827
96,000,000182770,000,0001826
70,000,000182657,000,000 of yards1825
57,000,000 of yards1825118 said, he was satisfied, from personal observation and documentary evidence, that the representations regarding distress were exaggerated; he alluded
98,000,0001828
98,000,000182896,000,0001827
96,000,000182770,000,0001826
70,000,000182657,000,000 of yards1825
57,000,000 of yards1825
98,000,0001828
98,000,000182896,000,0001827
96,000,000182770,000,0001826
70,000,000182657,000,000 of yards1825
57,000,000 of yards1825118Lord Tullamore
76hear, hear, hearlaugh and hear, hear75, was most astonished at that part of the Speech which described the distress to exist in some parts of the country only, and to be, in fact, merely partial and temporary. The noble duke and his Majesty's ministers must be very much misinformed with respect to the state of the country, and totally ignorant of the fact, that the people of every part of the country were placed in a condition such as they had never known before. The whole of the productive classes of the community, labourers as well as manufacturers, were now enduring a state of severe suffering and misery such as they had never experienced before, at any period of our history. It had been said the distress was partial and temporary. He denied that it could be called so. The people were engaged in a continuity of struggles, which they had supported with firmness for the last fourteen years; but their strength was now nearly exhausted, and
76hear, hear, hearlaugh and hear, hear75Mr. Western
cheers and laughter9796hearhear hear95hearl.l.laughterlaughter and cries of hear, hearhearheara laugh.94hearhearhearhear said, he did not presume to think that either redress to the people or instruction to the House could follow from the few observations which he should trespass on the House on the present occasion. The people had sent him thereto do their business, and in the discharge of his duty he felt that he was authorised to express his humble opinion as to the state of the country. In the discharge of that duty also, he might have to address them of tener than he could wish; and the only compensation that he could make was, to promise to be as brief as he possibly could. He had now to address himself to the Speech from the Throne, of which he felt himself bound to speak in as harsh terms as he might consistently with the respect to which it was entitled; it was entitled to respect as emanating from the king—and the king's name was a tower of strength; it was entitled to courtesy as proceeding from the noble duke at the head of state affairs and of the government; and, on these accounts, he should treat it with respect and courtesy; but when he looked at what the document was in itself, he felt warranted in saying that anything so unsatisfactory in its propositions, and so meagre in its details, could scarcely have been concocted or conceived, [cheers and laughter9796hearhear hear95hearl.l.laughterlaughter and cries of hear, hearhearheara laugh.94hearhearhearhearMr. O'Connell
l.cheers and laughterAre the rules of his society,""Order and sobriety,hearhear86l.l.l.l.l.85laughter84 said, many very material amendments ought to be added to the Address proposed by the noble lord. The first amendment ought to be a declaration of the expediency of getting rid of that immense military force which, in times of peace, their ancestors considered as an unconstitutional incumbrance, and which only enabled ministers to hold out bribes for the support of members of Parliament. The second obvious amendment was one which the circumstances of the country naturally suggested—namely, that if they
l.cheers and laughterAre the rules of his society,""Order and sobriety,hearhear86l.l.l.l.l.85laughter84Mr. E. Davenport
818079**hear*78hear77 said, he addressed the House, at that early stage of the debate, with unfeigned diffidence of his power to do justice to the subject. During the three sessions that he had enjoyed the honour to occupy a seat in the House, he had, on all occasions, preferred trusting to the language of others for the development of those measures, in the propriety of which he was willing to concur; but he thought the time was now arrived when the exertions of honesty and good intention were more requisite than the display of the greatest oratorical powers, and with that impression he ventured most humbly to offer himself thus early to their notice. That House had long been the subject of attack from men of a certain class and holding particular opinions; but it was now obvious that the opinions respecting its integrity and capacity were not confined to these persons, but that attacks the most violent, and urged in language the most vehement, were to be heard from quarters in which they had never before heard any thing but praise and approbation; from quarters which had been in the habit of lauding, indiscriminately, every act of authority and power, no matter in whose hands that power was reposed. The hollow murmur of discontent now approached the House from all quarters; and none had so accurately describe-
818079**hear*78hear77Mr. Protheroe
59 (in continuation of orders for accounts presented last session) moved addresses for returns from all Courts, and other authorities in England and Wales, empowered to grant probate of wills and letters of administration, stating the date of the earliest wills in their respective registries, the period at which there commences a regular series of original wills and recorded copies of administration, bonds and inventories of act, books of probates and administrations, and of indexes to the said records:—Together with a statement of any occasional chasms, that may occur in, and an accurate detail of the state, and condition of, the said records:—Of the number of wills proved, and letters of administration granted, in the several jurisdictions respectively so empowered, 'in the years 1826, 1827, and 1828; and in cases where no wills have been proved, nor letters of administration granted, in any jurisdiction within the aforementioned period, the date of the last will proved, or letters of administration granted, to be stated:—Of the amount of fees, profits and emoluments of every description, which have been received by the judge, record-keeper, auditor of accounts, all deputies and assistant clerks, and all other persons in the Ecclesiastical and Manorial Courts in England (except the Prerogative Court of Canterbury), from 1825 to 1828, both inclusive:—And of the fees, profits, and emoluments of the registrars, deputy registrars, and proctors, on taking out probates and administrations, in the Ecclesiastical and Manorial Courts in England
59Mr. Protheroe
 saw no such difficulty. Every bishop was aware of the number in his own diocese; and, no doubt, the Home Secretary would know to whom to send the order so as to ensure obedience to it.Mr. Hume
 (in continuation of returns ordered last session) moved an Address for "Copies or Abstracts of the Returns made to his Majesty in council by each bishop in England and Wales on 25th March 1827 or 1828, as directed by the twenty-third section of 57 Geo. 3, c. 99:—Return of the number of parish churches and chapels, and chapels of ease, of the church of England, in each parish, and the total in England and Wales:—Abstract of the number of resident and licensed curates in England and Wales, with the amount of the salaries of curacies, according to the diocesan returns for the years 1827 and 1828:—Of the number of places of worship, not of the chinch of England, in each parish; distinguishing, as far as possible, of what sect or persuasion, and the total number of each sect in England and Wales."Mr. Hume
 said, his knowledge of the existence of very general distress compelled him with great regret to vote for the amendment.Mr. R. Palmer
101hearonushear and laughter100hear and laughter.hear99hear98hear said, there had been already one amendment proposed, and notice given of no fewer than three others. He was far from censuring the practice of proposing amendments on such occasions as the present. He came down to the House altogether ignorant of the contents of his Majesty's Speech, and equally ignorant of the intention of the hon. baronet, or of any other gentleman, to propose an amendment; but an amendment having been moved, and a debate having arisen upon it, he felt called upon, without reference to the possibility of prospective arrangements, which might be for consideration hereafter, to express his opinion on the subject with reference to the simple matter of fact as to the state of the country, which was the real question in issue. If the question were as to any particular mode of relief, it would be equally unwise and unbecoming to go into it when assembled to thank his majesty for his gracious Speech; accordingly, from anything of that sort he should cautiously abstain. But, after what he had heard from the noble mover and hon. seconder of the proposed Address, after all that had fallen from those who had subsequently addressed the House, and from his own knowledge of facts, he felt bound to state his opinion that the real facts of the case, as regarded the public distress, were more correctly stated in the amendment moved by the hon. baronet than in the Address proposed by the noble lord. [101hearonushear and laughter100hear and laughter.hear99hear98hearMr. Huskisson
hear115hear, hear said, it was his intention to support the original Address; though he was of opinion that the distress of the country was more general than any one would imagine from reading the words of the royal Speech which stated it to be confined to some parts of the United Kingdom. He opposed the amendment, because it found verbal fault with the Address, in order to displace an administration, for which the movers of the amendment wished to substitute another not near so advantageous to the country. [hear115hear, hearMr. W. Smith
58 said, there was no proper officer to whom an order for such a return could be directed. If the returns could be had without expense to private
58Mr. William Smith
cheers69loud cheershear68hearhear, hearhear, hear67hear, hearhear—I rise for the purpose of seconding the motion of the noble lord. Recollecting that many of the ablest and best men whom this country ever claimed as her sons have stood upon the spot which I now occupy for the purpose of recommending by their eloquence the various motions for addresses from time to time proposed, I must say, in my own excuse, that it is the partiality of others, and not any presumption of mine, that has selected me for this task. [cheers69loud cheershear68hearhear, hearhear, hear67hear, hearhearMr. Ward
.—No, no.Mr. Ward
a laugh.—I had no such intention: I misunderstood my hon. friend. I supposed that my hon. friend intended to consider my speech as that of ministers. Now ministers were not at all responsible for what I may have said, [a laughMr. Ward
.—Though he believed the distress to be general, and whatever reluctance he might have to adopt the statement in the address on that subject, yet as he was not prepared to go the length of those who proposed the amendment, he should vote against it.Mr. W. Whitmore
 then read a copy of the Lords Commissioners Speech.The Speaker
 then read the Motion for an Address.The Speaker
7170.—If, Sir, on the present occasion, I could permit myself to be influenced by personal considerations, I should willingly have adopted the course pursued by me for several years, and suffer the Address to pass without observation. In applying myself to the subject it must be obvious, and I confess it, that I labour under extreme difficulty. It is a very short time since I have been informed of the topics it embraces, and therefore my difficulty becomes the greater still, either in the application of my argument, or in the preparation of an amendment. It is true I might have taken the course once recommended by an hon. member in this House; I might move the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow, so as to have time to form such an Address as I could more willingly offer to your consideration. But I do not think that such a course would be in accordance with the wish or the usage of the House, and I shall not adopt it. I shall follow the Speech as well as I can, and make such observations as suggest themselves. But, before I move the amendment with which I mean to conclude, I must make one or two observations upon what has fallen from the noble lord and the hon. member opposite, the mover and seconder of the Address. If the noble Lord has found it necessary to apologize for the part he has taken, I have no fault to find with him; but, if an apology were necessary, he has made it in the best way possible, and I leave the government the benefit of the explanation. I will also say
7170Sir Edward Knatchbull
.—Do I hear my hon. friend aright? Does my hon. friend mean to controvert a point which has been settled for now more than a century past, that his Majesty's Speech should be considered as that of his ministers?Sir E. Knatchbull
hear72hear.—All I say, and all I want the attention of the House to, is the simple fact, that the Speech says, in plain terms, that distress exists in "some" places. If I were in want of any explanation I need only refer to the speeches of the mover and seconder of the Address. They say that the distress is general and extraordinary. That is the sole point of difference; and since I heard the Speech I have marvelled how such language could have found its way into the Speech, or how they could make statements so very different from the Address proposed. If ministers said, they would do every thing that wisdom and sagacity and energy could suggest for the relief of the people, then I should agree with them; it would have been unnecessary for me to propose any amendment. If I am asked what evidence have I that distress exists, I will say that I see it and feel it in my own part of the country; and if I am asked for more, I will put the question to every hon. member in the House, and he will say the same of the district which he represents. I know that the distress is not so great in some places as in others, but the question is—is it not universal? We are asked on this important day—perhaps the most important we have ever witnessed—to approach his Majesty with a declaration containing something very like falsehood [hear72hearSir E. Knatchbull
74.—He did not rise to detain the House by discussing in detail the various topics that had been introduced into the speech of the noble Lord who moved the Address, and of the hon. member who seconded it. He concurred in what had fallen from them, and he approved of the Address. At that time, however, he held it to be insufficient to concur in silence. The parliament was now assembled at a crisis when unexampled distress pervaded every interest of the country, whether it was agricultural, commercial, or trading, and every nerve must be strained to alleviate it. However insignificant his powers might be, his constituents had intrusted him with a seat in the great council of the nation, to uphold their rights, and to maintain the dearest interests of the country; and by the blessing of God he would do his best not to disappoint them. If this trust had not been confided to him, it would have been conferred on some one else, more able, perhaps, but, he was confident, not more willing to do his duty by them. He
74Sir John Brydges
cries of "no, no," from Sir Edward Knatchbull and others,113hear said, he admitted that the present administration had done more good for the country than any other government that had preceded it; but having stated that as his opinion, he, at the same time, claimed his right generally to exercise his judgment in reference to any measures which they might introduce, and to object to, or oppose, any thing emanating from them as he might think proper. He had come down to the House that evening to hear the Speech from the throne, and he could not conceal his surprise at hearing the assertion contained in it, that distress existed "in some parts of the United Kingdom." His impression was, that the distress existed throughout the country. He should feel great satisfaction in hearing that he was mistaken in that opinion; he should feel still greater if that statement of the Speech were proved to be correct. [cries of "no, no," from Sir Edward Knatchbull and others,113hearLord Althorp
 said, he conceived that the statement in the Speech and the Address undervalued the distress which he was convinced extended generally throughout the country. The facts which the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel) had mentioned might be met by the statement, which he believed was the case, that many of the operations of our internal trade were carried on at a loss. But while he (lord Howick) regretted to see such a statement in the Speech, as he knew that the distress was general, he could not concur in the amendment proposed by the hon. baronet. He was anxious to wait to see what would be done or proposed by the government. He condemned the system of referring to a committee, consisting of twenty-three gentlemen of that House, the task of examining into every branch of our enormous establishments. It was in his opinion absurd, and likely to end as it had ended, in disappointment. The Address did not pledge hon. members.Lord Howick
hear, hear128 thought the appearance of
hear, hear128Mr. Brougham
127"E.""I am going to send you a very excellent new Bishop, whenever Dr. James resigns—Mr. J. M. Turner. The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of London, and indeed all the Bishops I have seen, are quite satisfied that Mr. Turner is as fit a man as could have been selected. He will be mild and firm. He is a very good and pious man, without worldly notions, and really devoted to his high calling."Sir J. Malcolm, G.C.B.(Signed) "ELLENBOROUGH."I feel satisfied that you will act with the same firmness under all circumstances, and at the same time with moderation and discretion. You may thus depend upon the support of the Board of Control, which I have the honour of presiding over. I have, &c."It is with deep regret that I have heard that the Company and the country are so soon to lose your services in India. I could not ask you to stay one hour to the danger of your valuable life: but I am confident you will stay till you have re-established the authority of Government in the opinion of the natives. I trust, indeed, that the unbending firmness you have displayed will have prevented much of the evil which might have been expected to flow from the conduct of the judges."You will see that there is no intention of deserting you. You have acted with much firmness and prudence. I entirely agree in the view you have expressed of the dangerous consequences which would result from the extension beyond the limits of the Precedency of the powers claimed by the Supreme Court. Orders have been given for expediting the patent of the Chief Judge."As we may not impossibly renew the Charter next year, we may take that opportunity of rectifying the expressions of the act of Parliament, should they require it. Many persons think it would be inexpedient to open a discussion on Indian matters this year, if it could be avoided. But, as I tell you, no decision is yet come to."It is as yet undecided, the law-officers not having as yet given their opinion as to the law, whether a declaratory act will be required. Perhaps the opinions of the law-officers, and those which I may obtain of the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chief Justice, may be sufficient to induce sir J. Grant to revise his notions of law. At any rate, no more mischief can happen, as he will be like a wild elephant led away between two tame ones.above the Court. It will mark you out as the King's representative: you may make the ceremony as imposing as you please. I have written to the Heralds'-office to know if the thing could be done according to precedents.126"The Puisne Judge appointed in the room of sir C. Chambers, is Mr. William Seymour, of the Chancery bar. The Lord Chancellor has a very good opinion of him, and generally, I think, he appeared to have higher claims than any other candidate. He is a gentleman in his manners, and a man of cultivated mind. He seems to have right notions of his duty, and of the law which has been so strangely misinterpreted. He will rather support Government than use the authority of the Supreme Court as a means of raising opposition. At least, if he is not all this, I have been deceived in him. He will embark in less than two months. He will probably be knighted before he sails; and as it will not be right that the Chief Justice alone should not be knighted, we must consider in what manner that can be best effected. I believe it may be done by patent; but my present idea is to empower you, as Governor, to confer the honour of knighthood on Mr. Dewar. This will evidently place the Governor"I thought the putting him over sir J. Grant's head would do more to notify public opinion than any other measure I could at once adopt; and you have him in action two months sooner than you could have any other sent from here. I hope this arrangement will be satisfactory to you."I believe there is but one opinion in this country as to the conduct of the Supreme Court. Their law is considered bad law; but then errors in matters of law are nothing in comparison with those they have committed in the tenour of their speeches from the bench. Had sir C. Chambers lived, I think he must have been displaced. Sir J. Grant seems to have confined himself more strictly to a legal argument. He may have been led by his erring chief: still there is much to censure in his conduct, and although I think it will probably not be considered necessary to recall him, his case is by no means decided upon. I am to have some conversation upon it with the Chancellor in a few days. We are so much occupied with our Roman Catholic Relief-bill at present, that we have little time for other matters, however important: to this circumstance must be attributed the delay which has occurred on the part of the law-officers. There was none in sending the case to them. In the mean time the King has, on my recommendation, made your Advocate-general, Mr. Dewar, Chief Justice. I advised this appointment because that gentleman appears to have shown ability and discretion during the late conflict with the Supreme Court, and because he appears to take a right view of the law, and to be on terms of confidence with you.that they wrote to you by a vessel which sails to-day, and I am unwilling that you should not receive a letter from me at the same time.125"Sir,—I had not intended to write to you until I could communicate to you the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown upon the difference which appears to have taken place between you and the Supreme Court of Bombay; but the Chairs have just informed me"India Board, Feb. 21.*** presented a petition from Mr. V. Hunt, Mayor of Limerick, and Chairman of a meeting of the Freemen, Freeholders, and Inhabitants of the County of the City of Limerick, against a renewal of the East India Charter.— Having stated the object of the petition, he said he would take that opportunity to put a question to his hon. and learned friend opposite (Mr. G. Bankes), who had, at least till a late period, been connected with the administration of the affairs of India. The subject to which he was about to allude was of such an important nature, that it was highly necessary that the public and parliament should know what answer his learned friend would give—if he were to give any answer—to the question which he was about to propose, relative to a matter that was certainly deserving of explanation. A letter had recently appeared in the public prints of this country,127"E.""I am going to send you a very excellent new Bishop, whenever Dr. James resigns—Mr. J. M. Turner. The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of London, and indeed all the Bishops I have seen, are quite satisfied that Mr. Turner is as fit a man as could have been selected. He will be mild and firm. He is a very good and pious man, without worldly notions, and really devoted to his high calling."Sir J. Malcolm, G.C.B.(Signed) "ELLENBOROUGH."I feel satisfied that you will act with the same firmness under all circumstances, and at the same time with moderation and discretion. You may thus depend upon the support of the Board of Control, which I have the honour of presiding over. I have, &c."It is with deep regret that I have heard that the Company and the country are so soon to lose your services in India. I could not ask you to stay one hour to the danger of your valuable life: but I am confident you will stay till you have re-established the authority of Government in the opinion of the natives. I trust, indeed, that the unbending firmness you have displayed will have prevented much of the evil which might have been expected to flow from the conduct of the judges."You will see that there is no intention of deserting you. You have acted with much firmness and prudence. I entirely agree in the view you have expressed of the dangerous consequences which would result from the extension beyond the limits of the Precedency of the powers claimed by the Supreme Court. Orders have been given for expediting the patent of the Chief Judge."As we may not impossibly renew the Charter next year, we may take that opportunity of rectifying the expressions of the act of Parliament, should they require it. Many persons think it would be inexpedient to open a discussion on Indian matters this year, if it could be avoided. But, as I tell you, no decision is yet come to."It is as yet undecided, the law-officers not having as yet given their opinion as to the law, whether a declaratory act will be required. Perhaps the opinions of the law-officers, and those which I may obtain of the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chief Justice, may be sufficient to induce sir J. Grant to revise his notions of law. At any rate, no more mischief can happen, as he will be like a wild elephant led away between two tame ones.above the Court. It will mark you out as the King's representative: you may make the ceremony as imposing as you please. I have written to the Heralds'-office to know if the thing could be done according to precedents.126"The Puisne Judge appointed in the room of sir C. Chambers, is Mr. William Seymour, of the Chancery bar. The Lord Chancellor has a very good opinion of him, and generally, I think, he appeared to have higher claims than any other candidate. He is a gentleman in his manners, and a man of cultivated mind. He seems to have right notions of his duty, and of the law which has been so strangely misinterpreted. He will rather support Government than use the authority of the Supreme Court as a means of raising opposition. At least, if he is not all this, I have been deceived in him. He will embark in less than two months. He will probably be knighted before he sails; and as it will not be right that the Chief Justice alone should not be knighted, we must consider in what manner that can be best effected. I believe it may be done by patent; but my present idea is to empower you, as Governor, to confer the honour of knighthood on Mr. Dewar. This will evidently place the Governor"I thought the putting him over sir J. Grant's head would do more to notify public opinion than any other measure I could at once adopt; and you have him in action two months sooner than you could have any other sent from here. I hope this arrangement will be satisfactory to you."I believe there is but one opinion in this country as to the conduct of the Supreme Court. Their law is considered bad law; but then errors in matters of law are nothing in comparison with those they have committed in the tenour of their speeches from the bench. Had sir C. Chambers lived, I think he must have been displaced. Sir J. Grant seems to have confined himself more strictly to a legal argument. He may have been led by his erring chief: still there is much to censure in his conduct, and although I think it will probably not be considered necessary to recall him, his case is by no means decided upon. I am to have some conversation upon it with the Chancellor in a few days. We are so much occupied with our Roman Catholic Relief-bill at present, that we have little time for other matters, however important: to this circumstance must be attributed the delay which has occurred on the part of the law-officers. There was none in sending the case to them. In the mean time the King has, on my recommendation, made your Advocate-general, Mr. Dewar, Chief Justice. I advised this appointment because that gentleman appears to have shown ability and discretion during the late conflict with the Supreme Court, and because he appears to take a right view of the law, and to be on terms of confidence with you.that they wrote to you by a vessel which sails to-day, and I am unwilling that you should not receive a letter from me at the same time.125"Sir,—I had not intended to write to you until I could communicate to you the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown upon the difference which appears to have taken place between you and the Supreme Court of Bombay; but the Chairs have just informed me"India Board, Feb. 21.***Mr. S. Rice
hearhear129 said, he knew nothing of the manner in which this letter had been made public, but seeing it in the public prints, he took the liberty of putting the question to his hon. friend, and he did not think he could have asked him a kinder question, as it afforded him the opportunity for the explanation he had given, and which would have been more satisfactory if he could have denied altogether the genuineness of the letter. Let the disgrace of publishing the letter attach to the indivi-
hearhear129Mr. S. Rice
 would contend that the letter was a private communication, and that even supposing the copy published was a genuine one, it was rather hard that an individual should be judged according to what he had written in a hurry and in. private confidence to another. He knew that no man was more anxious than the noble lord in question to see a complete independence preserved to the court in Bombay, and he should not, therefore, be judged by a momentary effusion in a private letter.Lord Ashley
131hear, and a laugh said, whether the letter was private and confidential or not, it had all the forms of an official despatch, although the substance of it was certainly contrary to all the official despatches he had ever seen, [131hear, and a laughMr. Brougham
hearhear.—Different versions had been circulated in India of this letter, which he understood were very different from the one published in this country. He had asked his noble friend respecting it when the letter was published here. The noble lord acknowledged that he had written a letter of that description, but he could not say whether that was a correct copy of it, and it was moreover a letter written hastily, and inadvertently. He did not mean to say, that a public officer had a right to write letters to public functionaries upon public subjects, and afterwards to screen himself from animadversion on the plea that his letters were private [hearhearMr. Peel
132 said, no satisfactory explanation of this matter had been given. and that the House should consider whether the individual who could write such
132Lord J. Russell
 inquired whether the case of sir J. Grant, to which allusion was made in the letter, was yet decided?Mr. Brougham
.—As it appeared from the public newspapers that a terrible domestic calamity had been inflicted upon the noble lord within the last few days, some indulgence ought to be extended to him, if in the confusion of the moment he had stated that he did not recollect what he had written in a letter which he had sent to India nine months before, and of which he had kept no copy. He did not intend to enter at that moment into a consideration of the letter itself. If the document, consistently with the forms of parliament, could be laid upon the table of the House, he should be anxious to say a word or two upon it, when it came before them in a regular form. At present he would submit to his hon. and learned friend, whether the noble lord was not entitled to some indulgence for the reasons which he had just stated.Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, his reason for bringing this matter forward at this early period was, that the letter stated the intentions of government with regard to the East-India Company's charter. He had therefore thought it right to ascertain whether the statements of the letter were true or not.Mr. Rice
.—My answer is, that a communication upon that subject has been received by his majesty's government from, the minister of the United States, and that that communication is still under consideration.Mr. Peel
 gave notice that on the 1st May, or as early as possible after the recess, he should move for a committee of the whole House, on the Beer and Malt Duties; at the same time he should be glad if some proceeding of the government rendered his motion unnecessary.Lord F. Osborne
hearhear136; by no means acquiesced in the proposition which had just been made by the hon. member for Aberdeen. The proposal to abandon so important a privilege as the present, was one of those matters on which the House ought not to decide instantly and without due
hearhear136Mr. Peel
hear could not consent to that proposal, because it would seem to call in question the propriety of the existing order. The passing of that order now would not prevent the hon. member for Aberdeen from calling the attention of the House to it on a future occasion. He hoped, however, that the House would pause before it parted with the power of clearing the gallery, [hearMr. Peel
cheers gave notice that on the 23rd he should move for leave to bring in a bill to enable or allow Manchester, Leeds, and Birmingham, to send Members to Parliament, [cheersLord John Russell
 appeared at the bar with the Report of the committee appointed to prepare the Address on the Lords Commissioners Speech. The Address being read a second time.The Earl of Darlington
hear146hearhear145144143hearhearhear142 said, he agreed with his noble friend, that this was not the fit occasion for entering on so important a subject. In the first place, its importance entitled it to separate and serious consideration: and as his majesty had stated, that when the proper time arrived, the necessary documents would be laid before the House, he did not think it right, in the absence of such information, that any discussion should be provoked. By approving of the Address, no gentleman pledged him-
hear146hearhear145144143hearhearhear142Mr. Peel
hearHearOrdinibus patiar Deorum."Succos, et ascribi quietisInire sedes, ducere nectaris"—Illum ego lucidasa laugh148hear147 said, he thought that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) had certainly, without intending it, very much misconstrued the nature of his noble friend's argument. His noble friend said, you profess neutrality to all parties, but I ask you, do you preserve it in the strict sense of the word,—he asks, is it true that when Spain threatened an attack on Mexico, and the Mexicans, in order to avert the consequences of that attack, threatened in their turn to make a descent on Cuba—he asks you, is it true that the government of this country interfered to protect Cuba and rescue it from the danger in which it was placed? His noble friend asked if that was the case; and he asks still further, if it be true that when the Spaniards at Cuba, rescued from the restraint and the shackles which the threats of this invasion had imposed on them, two years afterwards landed in Mexico, why it was that having interfered to protect Cuba from the Mexicans, you did not also interfere on the principle of reciprocal justice, and protect Mexico from the people of Cuba? The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel), however, assumes that there were certain circumstances connected with the interests and the welfare of England which placed the interference with respect to Cuba out of the ordinary principles. Now he would ask the right hon. gentleman, were there no circumstances connected with the prosperity or interests of England which called on the government to prevent, as far as was in its power, the return of Mexico or South America under the control of Spain? He confessed, that in the present situation of this country, he knew none whose prosperity in every point of view, whether commercial or political, ought to be viewed with greater anxiety than Mexico and South America; and
hearHearOrdinibus patiar Deorum."Succos, et ascribi quietisInire sedes, ducere nectaris"—Illum ego lucidasa laugh148hear147Mr. C. Grant
150de facto149 said, he rejoiced in the assertion that parliament was not pledged
150de facto149Lord John Russell
hear154 said, he deprecated war; but at the same time maintained that if the honour and policy of the country required us to commence it, we ought not to hesitate to engage in it. Adverting to Portugal, he wished that we had preserved a strict neutrality towards the different parties in that country. The fact was, however, that while the British government had in outward appearance conducted itself towards Donna Maria with civility and courtesy, on all great matters it had leant to the individual who now sat on the throne of Portugal. So far as he was possessed of information on the subject (for one of the extraordinary qualities of the present administration was the darkness in which its proceedings were shrouded), he was compelled to conclude that Don Miguel had been enabled to maintain his seat on the Portuguese throne by the countenance of this country, by which it seemed probable that he was about to be formally recognized. It was true that there was no passage to that express effect in his majesty's Speech, but the intimation appeared to him to be clearly conveyed in it. He strongly condemned the conduct of government in preventing Mexico from attacking Cuba, but allowing Spain to attack Mexico from Cuba. Indeed he never reflected on the course which this country had of late pursued towards the Spanish states of South America without pain. It was a course replete with inconsistencies and anomalies. About twenty years ago lord Castlereagh had held out to the Spanish provinces in
hear154Dr. Lushington
hear.—He felt obliged to advert to what had dropped from the hon. member for Ryegate (sir J. Yorke) with respect to himself, and must observe that it appeared to him to be scarcely consistent with common courtesy or the regulations of the House [hearMr. Maberly
 expressed himself perfectly satisfied with this explanation.Mr. Maberly
hear165hear164hear, hearhear163a laugh162hear161hear160hearcheers159 said, the Speech had asserted the exports of 1829 to amount to more than those of any former year; but he would say, that when the commerce of a country was not prosperous, the greater its extent the greater was its evil. It was absurd at the present moment in ministers to congratulate the country on the extent of its commerce. The distress was deeply felt, and it had spread over the whole productive classes of the community, and he would be glad to hear from any member of that House that there was any one branch of industry that could be pronounced in a tolerably satisfactory state—he meant in such a state that any man would wish to embark his capital in it, or in such a state as these who had embarked their capital would not wish to withdraw it. The chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that prosperity prevailed in Ireland; but
hear165hear164hear, hearhear163a laugh162hear161hear160hearcheers159Mr. Attwood
167166hearhear.—He thought, when he had yesterday stated that he considered the great object of those who moved the amendment was connected with an alteration of the standard of value, that he had been met, on their parts, with the disclaimer of any such intention.—He therefore thanked the right hon. member who had just resumed his seat, for the clear and explicit statement given of his objections to that system which, after a full consideration of the matter, parliament had thought proper to adopt. That hon. gentleman had drawn a fearful picture of what he considered would be the consequences of an adherence to that system; but if parliament had ever determined to have changed that system, he would indeed have had an opportunity of describing distresses, not only as dreadful, but more real, than those on which he had been recently dilating. Did the hon. Member forget that the system of which he complained had been ten years established? and could he be ignorant of the fact that in a community like this, distinguished, perhaps, above all others for the variety and extent of its engagements and pecuniary transactions, occurring from day to day—could he, in such a community, forbear to see how large a proportion of transactions must have taken place within that period, under the standard which he now proposed to get rid of? [167166hearhearThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
168.—He did not rise to answer the speech of the hon. member for Callington, which was one of the most powerful in argument and eloquence he had heard for many years. He wished merely to set the House right on a matter of fact, which would shew the fallacy of what was called 'the official value of exports.' He denied that the exports were increased, and he was astonished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should this night have repeated so fallacious a statement. Looking at the real value, he could establish, that within the last twenty years the exports of the country had fallen off to a frightful amount, and in the last five years only they had been lessened on the average to the extent of nine millions sterling, without taking into account colonial and foreign produce. The principle he contended for had been adopted by Mr. Pitt,
168Mr. Alderman Waithman
170hear, hear169.—He was desirous of taking this opportunity of redeeming the pledge he had given last session, and which had been adverted to by the gallant
170hear, hear169Mr. Maberly
"That, under such circumstances, and with this knowledge before its eyes, this House would consider itself lost to every sense of duty towards your Majesty, and guilty of treason towards the people, if it did not seize this opportunity of declaring to your majesty its solemn conviction that the state is at this moment in the most imminent danger, and that no effectual measures of salvation will or can be adopted until the people shall be restored to their rightful share in the legislation of the country; that is, to their undoubted right, according to the true meaning of the constitution, of choosing the members of this House.""That to render such a mass of taxation, so disproportionate to the whole wealth of the kingdom, in any degree supportable, recourse has been had, cither from ignorance or design, to the most monstrous schemes in tampering with the currency, or circulating money of the country; at one time by greatly diminishing the value of the same, and at another time by greatly augmenting such value; and at each and every of such changes, which have been but too often repeated, one class of the community after another has been plunged into poverty, misery, and ruin, while the sufferers, without any fault or folly of their own, have been hardly able to perceive from what hand these calamities have come upon them.172"That in consequence of this departure from the wisdom of our ancestors, the nation has been deprived of its natural guardian, and has, in consequence, become so burthened with expensive establishments of all kinds, that, in a period much shorter than the life of man, the taxation has increased from nine millions to nearly sixty millions a-year; and the poor-rates, or parochial assessments during the same period, have augmented from one and a half millions to eight millions annually."It is a fact, already too notorious, that this House, which was intended by our ancient and admirable constitution to be the guardian of the nation's purse, has, from causes now unnecessary to be detailed, been nominated, for the greater part, by a few proprietors of close and decayed boroughs, and by a few other individuals, who, by the mere power of money employed in means absolutely and positively forbidden by the laws, have obtained a domination, also expressly forbidden by act of parliament, over certain other cities and boroughs in the United Kingdom."That this House is at no loss to indicate the real cause of this most unnatural state of things, and, injustice to your Majesty and the whole nation, it can no longer hesitate to proclaim that cause to the world.171hear, hear.—He should trespass but a few moments on the indulgence of the House, but would request their most serious attention to a topic of the greatest importance to the interests of the country, and one which could never be too earnestly impressed on the mind of their Sovereign, however unaccountably it had been neglected hitherto. He alluded to the present pernicious state of the popular representation. ["That, under such circumstances, and with this knowledge before its eyes, this House would consider itself lost to every sense of duty towards your Majesty, and guilty of treason towards the people, if it did not seize this opportunity of declaring to your majesty its solemn conviction that the state is at this moment in the most imminent danger, and that no effectual measures of salvation will or can be adopted until the people shall be restored to their rightful share in the legislation of the country; that is, to their undoubted right, according to the true meaning of the constitution, of choosing the members of this House.""That to render such a mass of taxation, so disproportionate to the whole wealth of the kingdom, in any degree supportable, recourse has been had, cither from ignorance or design, to the most monstrous schemes in tampering with the currency, or circulating money of the country; at one time by greatly diminishing the value of the same, and at another time by greatly augmenting such value; and at each and every of such changes, which have been but too often repeated, one class of the community after another has been plunged into poverty, misery, and ruin, while the sufferers, without any fault or folly of their own, have been hardly able to perceive from what hand these calamities have come upon them.172"That in consequence of this departure from the wisdom of our ancestors, the nation has been deprived of its natural guardian, and has, in consequence, become so burthened with expensive establishments of all kinds, that, in a period much shorter than the life of man, the taxation has increased from nine millions to nearly sixty millions a-year; and the poor-rates, or parochial assessments during the same period, have augmented from one and a half millions to eight millions annually."It is a fact, already too notorious, that this House, which was intended by our ancient and admirable constitution to be the guardian of the nation's purse, has, from causes now unnecessary to be detailed, been nominated, for the greater part, by a few proprietors of close and decayed boroughs, and by a few other individuals, who, by the mere power of money employed in means absolutely and positively forbidden by the laws, have obtained a domination, also expressly forbidden by act of parliament, over certain other cities and boroughs in the United Kingdom."That this House is at no loss to indicate the real cause of this most unnatural state of things, and, injustice to your Majesty and the whole nation, it can no longer hesitate to proclaim that cause to the world.171hear, hearThe Marquis of Blandford
hear, hear176id scitis, et quod vos scitis omnes sciunthear, hearhear, hear175hear, hearhear, hearhear, and a laugh174hear, hearhear, and a laughhear, hearcheers173 Burdett.—It must be unnecessary for him to say, that the sentiments of this amendment corresponded with those of his own mind; but it was a question of such magnitude, such general and paramount importance, that he found himself quite unable to do justice to it, brought forward as it was without sufficient time having been given adequately to consider it, and he hoped the noble lord would see that more effect would be given to his proposition, to which he (sir Francis Burdett) was most anxious to give his support, were he to bring it forward on some future occasion. He felt great hopes from the circumstance, when he saw gentlemen, in the situation of the noble lord, becoming sensible to the evils under which the country suffered, and coming forward boldly and manfully, as the noble lord had done, with the true spirit of an Englishman, and with a full understanding of the subject, to
hear, hear176id scitis, et quod vos scitis omnes sciunthear, hearhear, hear175hear, hearhear, hearhear, and a laugh174hear, hearhear, and a laughhear, hearcheers173Sir Francis
177.—He had the most unfeigned respect for the personal character of the hon. Baronet, and would yield the most willing deference to his experience in that House, particularly in
177The Marquis of Blandford
178hearhearhear, hear said, he did not rise to provoke discussion on a question of such importance. Differing entirely from the hon. Baronet in the view he took of the merits of the question, yet he cordially concurred with him in thinking that the time chosen for its discussion was most improper. Whatever might be the opinions of Members on the merits of the question, all agreed that it could not then be properly discussed. [178hearhearhear, hearMr. Secretary Peel
 said, he would give the noble Marquis his best support on the 18th, the day on which he had given notice of his intention to bring the subject substantively before the House, but would vote against him that evening should he injudiciously press a division.Mr. Western
.—I beg leave to second the noble Lord's amendment.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he also must vote against the noble Marquis's motion, should he then take the sense of the House on it. He trusted, however, the noble Marquis would not injure the cause of which he had put himself forward as the advocate, by leaving it to the country to infer that there were but some half dozen members of that House who were friendly to a reform of the present system of Representation. He (Mr. E. Davenport) had for years urged the necessity of such a measure, and therefore should not like to see it injured through the indiscretion of the noble Marquis on the present occasion.Mr. E. Davenport
 said, he should feel himself compelled to vote against the noble Lord's amendment if he then pressed it to a division, though he had himself proposed resolutions of the same tendency. Every man was partial to his own progeny; he therefore was not surprised at the noble Marquis's attachment to his; but as he (Mr. P.) had sacrificed his parental affection last evening, he thought the noble Marquis might make some little sacrifice on the present occasion.Mr. Protheroe
Calcutta Journal,130 explained.—He had laid down no doctrine but that to which every man of right feeling would assent; namely, that private and confidential letters should not be violated. The hon. member (Mr. Hume) had stated, that a copy of the letter had been forwarded to him from
Calcutta Journal,130Mr. G. Bankes
 said, as so much allusion had been made to the forgetfulness of the noble lord, he would only say that the friends of that noble lord would have ill-served him if they had rested his defence entirely upon that ground. His forgetfulness was intended to apply only to particular expressions in the letter; and really those expressions appeared to him to have been very much misinterpreted by the newspapers.Mr. G. Bankes
 was not sure whether sir J. Grant's case was as yet decided upon.Mr. Bankes
 said, he could only reiterate the statement he had already made as to the noble lord having no copy of the original letter in his possession, and his consequent inability to state whether or not the copy published in the papers was correct. It was transmitted as a private confidential communication, and it could only have been through a base violation of confidence that it was ever made public.Mr. Bankes
 said, he felt no hesitation whatever in communicating all the information which it was in his power to give respecting the letter to which the hon. member for Limerick had directed attention. He begged to be allowed to say, that, owing to the circumstance of a melancholy occurrence in the family of the noble Lord (Ellenborough) alluded to, [the recent death of his lordship's son at Worthing,] he (Mr. Bankes) had not had an opportunity, these many days, of seeing him; but he understood from the noble Lord that the letter in question was written in the shape of a strictly private and confidential communication from him to the individual to whom it was addressed, and that it was never intended to meet the public eye. He could state, that while acting as Secretary to the India Board, he had never seen a copy of this letter, and he believed that it was not in the power of the noble lord himself to say whether or not the letter which had been published in the papers was a correct copy of the private letter he had written to sir John Malcolm. The fact was, that the noble lord had kept no copy of that letter, as it was a strictly private and confidential one, and one which was never intended to meet the public eye. Sir John Malcolm had since expressed his deepest regret that it should have come before the public, and had stated, that a deliberate and shameful breach of confidence was the only means by which such a document could have been brought before the public. He had already mentioned that his noble friend was not able to state whether or not it was a completely correct copy of his letter that had appeared in the papers of this country, as he had kept no copy whatever of that letter, it being intended as a mere private and confidential communication. He was ready to afford any other information he possessed, if the hon. member should wish to put any further questions on this subject.Mr. G. Bankes
hear158 said, he had never known the country more impatient for relief; and the people had been taught to expect that the government would be prepared with some remedy; but how were their expectations to be gratified by the Speech or the Address? The Speech, in the first instance, doubted of the prevalence of distress, and it went to professions
hear158Mr. J. Wood
hearloud laughter said, if the doctrine of the hon. Secretary to the India Board were to be adopted, we should remain in total ignorance of the administration of affairs there, for a large portion of the business between this country and India was uniformly transacted in the way of private communications either from the heads of the Board of Control, or the directors of the East-India company, explaining the way in which the official individuals were to act. He had received a copy of this letter from Calcutta. He believed, it had been published in every newspaper in Bombay, and thus an opportunity was given to sir John Malcolm to triumph over the King's Court there, which no longer could be considered as affording that protection to the natives for which it had been, established. Mr. Dewar, it appeared, was considered fit to fill the office of judge there because he would truckle to the government. Thus the confidence of the natives was destroyed, and the letter of the noble lord had spread dismay throughout the whole of Bombay. The subserviency of two of the judges, it seems, could now be reckoned upon; and then, if sir J. Grant should be refractory, why, according to the noble lord, no mischief would accrue, for he "would be like a wild elephant, led away between two tame ones" [hearloud laughterMr. Hume
135 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to this particular order. It was an order of very old standing; indeed it was so ancient, that it was disregarded in practice; and he therefore put it to the House whether they had not now arrived at the time when they could avowedly admit the public to hear what passed within their walls, a privilege which it substantially possessed already, although liable to certain penalties for exercising it. It was well known that, if any member wished the gallery to be cleared, he had only to intimate that "Strangers" were present, and the gallery must, be cleared without any debate. Last year, as a gallant friend of his (colonel Davis), whom he had not the
135Mr. Hume
 said, he would not press his objection to the resolution at present, but would take another opportunity of bringing it under consideration.—The order was then agreed to.Mr. Hume
Cries of "no no".—"Perhaps the House will let this order stand over for a few days, in order to enable me to give the notice which the right hon. gentleman seems to think necessary. I should hope that the further consideration of this order may be postponed for a week." [Cries of "no no"Mr. Hume
 begged to state, that it had been his intention to move an amendment, to supply a great defect in the Address, and to direct the attention of his Majesty to the only real means of giving efficient relief,—a reduction of expenditure and a consequent diminution of taxation. As they could not raise prices, they ought to reduce taxes. After, however, the discussion the subject had undergone, and at that late hour, he was not disposed to press it, especially as he intended to give a notice for the 12th instant, for a humble Address to the Throne, praying that his Majesty would order such a reduction in the national expenditure as would enable the House to make a reduction of taxation proportioned to the alteration of the currency. It had been stated by Ministers, and in his opinion very wisely, that to alter the present standard of value would occasion greater evils than any benefits that could be anticipated from that alteration. [hear']Mr. Hume
 moved the usual sessional orders and resolutions.Mr. Planta
hear, hearignis fatuus.157156 begged now to be allowed to say a few words, as no opportunity had occurred last night for expressing his sentiments on the various topics which had been discussed. He should not, indeed, have now risen, had it not been for the levity with which the distresses of the country had been treated by a right. hon. gentleman. That was not the way in which they ought to be treated. He would not advert to the questions connected with our foreign policy. The Speech delivered in his majesty's name, dissatisfied him, however, on these points as well as on others, — on the points which had been omitted as well as on the points which had been introduced. But the overwhelming topic of interest, that which affected the heart of every thinking man in the country, was the universal distress which prevailed throughout the United Kingdom. The passage in the Speech which referred to that distress, was introduced by a declaration relative to the increase of our exports. This was supported by the comments of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, and he had argued, by some documents about canals, from an increase of activity, proof of prosperity in our home occupation. The Speech allowed that distress did certainly prevail in some parts of the United Kingdom; but the terms of the statement were evidently intended to imply that the distress was by no means extensive. Truth was told, but not the whole truth. It was the duty of those who advised the Crown to advise it to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. When the commercial policy of this country was unhappily changed, the alteration was accompanied by glowing predictions of the prosperity that would ensue. He did not wish to taunt those who had indulged in such expectations; but he would ask them whether any one of those expectations had been realized? On the contrary, had they not all been most cruelly disappointed? At the opening of the last session, the House had been solemnly assured that the state of the revenue was exceedingly satisfactory; and that the comforts and
hear, hearignis fatuus.157156Mr. Sadler
.—If the letter were genuine, it was indeed a most extraordinary document, and he had read it with regret.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, though he agreed fully in the importance of the measure, and was anxious that it should be considered, he could not support the noble Lord's motion. He wished the question to be brought fairly before the House; and if the motion were then pressed to a division he must vote against the noble Lord.Mr. W. Smith
hear wished very briefly to state his opinion on this subject, and he could not but say that the distress called for a more decided expression of sympathy than that which was contained in the Address.—All the evil predictions of 1819, when the currency question was discussed, had been verified; that alone required immediate revision, independent of the great subject of the national debt. He was himself a public creditor, but for one, he did not wish to receive a farthing more than was just, with relation to the rest of the community. He did not pretend to be a philosopher, but he kept his eyes and ears open, and let him go where he would, he heard everybody complaining that the legislature had pursued a wrong course. He begged to ask, whether, since the year l819, the country had enjoyed anything like even an average state of prosperity? and the admitted great falling-off in the Excise showed that the people had not the means of buying the most ordinary luxuries. Nobody denied the amount of distress, and ministers themselves, when pressed, were obliged to admit it. If, then, for the last ten years, parliament had pursued an erroneous system, it was fit at once to avow it, and to set about the adoption of a remedy; for one, instead of opposing Government, he should be most happy to lend it every assistance, and to endeavour to re-establish this House in particular in the confidence of the country. [hearMr. Trant
 said, he could not but strongly condemn the practice of making documents of such a description public. It was calculated altogether to put an end to confidential correspondence between individuals in this country and their friends in India. He would give no opinion as to the letter itself, but he would enter his protest against founding any public proceeding upon a private letter written in confidence from one gentleman to another, and the publication of which could have occurred only through a gross violation of confidence.Mr. Trant
See Appendix, Commons Votes, No.137 acquainted the House, that he had received from the Deputy to the Clerk of the Crown in Ireland a petition of Daniel Meagher, and others, electors of the city of Cork, complaining of an undue election
See Appendix, Commons Votes, No.137Mr. Speaker
134.—As I have a question to put to the right hon. Secretary
134Mr. Robinson
133 said, he condemned in the strongest terms the sentiments contained in the letter to which the attention of the House had been directed. He could not look upon a letter from the President of the India Board to a governor in India, treating on public subjects, as a private letter. In writing this letter, the noble lord seemed to forget what was due to his situation. The secret opinions of those who administered the affairs of India were, when made known to the public, of the greatest importance to it, because they displayed the real opinions of those who governed the public both in England and in India. He would say that, if the noble lord should now come forward, and, in a manner which could not be mistaken, and which could not be concealed, disavow the sentiments of that letter, supposing it to be genuine, such a disavowal, so made and so published, would be, in his eyes, a great reparation of the original fault which he had committed. If he could understand that any thing of that kind was in contemplation, he should be glad to receive it; but it was treating a matter of first rate importance with far too much levity, to say merely, that the noble lord had forgotten what he might have said respecting it. Was the character of a judge such a trifle in any man's eyes, that he could easily forget what he had said respecting the mode of that judge's performing his high and important functions?—Was the administration of justice to be treated with such scornful negligence—was it, in short, to be matter of such utter indifference to the noble lord, that he could write about it with such inconsiderate haste, as not to be able, at the end of nine months, to recollect even the substance of what he had then written? Those stale jests which the letter contained, about employing a tame elephant as a decoy for the wild ones, were not likely to be forgotten soon by the reader,
133Sir J. Mackintosh
hear155.—If he had been unparliamentary in his expressions, he ought to have been called to order. He disclaimed
hear155Sir J. Yorke
much laughterorder, order153laughter and some murmursa laughhear! and laughter152a laugha laugha laughhear! and a laugh151 said, he was so hoarse
much laughterorder, order153laughter and some murmursa laughhear! and laughter152a laugha laugha laughhear! and a laugh151Sir Jos. Yorke
 explained. He denied that he counselled war, as the right hon. gentleman asserted. On that point he had been quite misconceived. All he wished to convey was, that by assuming a firmer and more decided tone, the country, without the slightest risk of war, might have secured advantages of which it has been deprived, and of which England's allies had been deprived.Lord Palmerston
141de facto,140hear139hear, hearhear rose.—He understood that some amendments were to be proposed, and he wished to make some observations before that stage arrived. He had voted for the Amendment of the preceding evening (sir E. Knatchbull's) because it appeared to him to embrace a fair statement of facts. But he wished not to be understood by his vote on that occasion as either despairing of the situation of the country, or binding himself to a concurrence in those measures with which some individuals might think it proper that the Amendment should be followed up. He did not look with despondency on the situation of the country; for when he saw twenty millions of active and industrious men enjoying the blessings of such a constitution as we possessed, placed on a fine and fertile soil, and having the power to avail themselves of all the local advantages of commerce, it was impossible but that ultimately the condition of the country would be improved. His opinion was, that the distress arose, in a great degree, from the measures taken with respect to the currency; and he thought, if any man who voted for these measures did not, at the same time, perceive that they must produce very considerable alterations, that he could not have understood the subject. It was clear, that the return to a metallic standard was likely to be attended with certain difficulties; but if they would contrast the difficulties of the present day with those scenes of distress and bankruptcy which were created by various panics, he thought it would be found that the pressure occasioned by the return to a sound currency was infinitely less than the mischief occasioned by the alterations incidental to the old system, [141de facto,140hear139hear, hearhearLord Palmerston
tain the National Honour, and upon my constant and anxious disposition to watch with equal care over the interests of all classes of my subjects.213I rely with confidence on your attachment and support, and you may depend upon my unwearied endeavours to main-I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. appeared at the bar with, and presented His Majesty's Answer to, the Address on the Lords Commissioners Speech: it was as follows.—tain the National Honour, and upon my constant and anxious disposition to watch with equal care over the interests of all classes of my subjects.213I rely with confidence on your attachment and support, and you may depend upon my unwearied endeavours to main-I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address.Mr. Secretary Peel
214 presented a petition from the Corn Market in London, praying—first, for the repeal of the Malttax;—secondly, that the trade in Beer should be free;—thirdly, that there should be a reduction in the army, navy, and civil list; and fourthly, that the interest on a debt contracted in one currency should not be paid in another. The hon. member for Essex (Mr. Western) had, on the first night of the session, called on members to state the condition in which they had left their constituents; and he, in obedience to that call, had, with sorrow, to declare that the farmers of Surrey were in the most distressing condition; most of them living upon their capital rather than their profits, and many of them worse off than the very labourers. And as to the agricultural labourers, their distress was extreme. He was as much disposed as any one to do full credit to the obligations which the country owed to the duke of
214Mr. Denison
 said, though agreeing in the greater part of what had fallen from his hon. friend, yet he could not but deplore one observation which he had made and which certainly must have escaped him in the hurry of speaking. No one felt more strongly than he did the gratitude the country owed to the Duke of Wellington for a great portion of his public services, and more especially for the carrying of the great question of Catholic Emancipation. But with respect to the repeal of the Test and Corporation acts, the credit of that measure was due to his noble friend (lord J. Russell); and he (Mr. Brougham), therefore, could not sit still and suffer it to be said that the country had to thank the noble Duke for that measure. When the measure was brought forward by his noble friend, government opposed it; but after a majority of about forty in favour of it, the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) withdrew his opposition, and certainly furthered the bill through its subsequent stages; and without the support of the Duke of Wellington in the other House, it was possible that the bill might have been there thrown out. These things were not immaterial, for in taking away the credit of carrying a measure, when it had been carried contrary to the fate which usually attended such measures, one motive that tended to induce public men to act was taken away.Mr. Brougham
212211 moved for accounts of the total number of Barrels of Beer exported from England and Scotland to Ireland, and from Ireland to England and Scotland; distinguishing the number of barrels so exported to each kingdom, as likewise the number of barrels exported from each kingdom to foreign countries, with the amount of drawback paid thereon from 5th January 1829 to 5th January 1830: of the quantity of all the different sorts of beer, stated by barrels, made in each year, from 5th January 1825 to 5th January 1830; the rates of duty per barrel in each year, and total amount thereof in each year in each kingdom; showing,
212211Mr. Alderman Wood
 presented a petition from Cambridge for the repeal of the Malt and Beer duties, and several other petitions from places in Cambridgeshire with like prayer, and praying for measures to alleviate the distressed state of agriculture.Lord F. Osborne
210 presented a petition from the County of Cumberland, complaining of the distress of the Agricultural and Mining population, praying the House to inquire whether those distresses were not brought on by the return to small payments in gold and silver, without a corresponding decrease at the same time in taxation. He did not intend to go into the whole of the important questions which the petition embraced until they came to be singly discussed. With regard, however, to the question whether the additional increase of the value of the currency is not an additional increase of taxation, he should take an early opportunity of moving that the amount of salary of all persons employed in the civil and military service of the country should be reduced to the scale of 1797, as far as was consistent with a strict regard to engagement and the effici-
210Sir J. Graham
hear224point d'appui223hear222221 said, he could assure the hon. gentleman that on this, as upon every other occasion, it was his desire to answer any question put to his Majesty's Government in that House respecting the foreign policy of the country, as frankly and as clearly as was consistent with the general interests of the State. But he felt the questions now put to involve a point of such deep importance, that the House would excuse him if he did not content himself with giving a simple answer to the questions of the hon. Gentleman, but enter into a short explanation of the facts, and of the intentions and policy of the Government. When a noble friend of his on a former night put a question to him upon the same subject, he answered it upon the strength of his recollection; and if he then fell into any mistake as to the occurrences which had been referred to, he was sure the House would readily pardon him when they considered that seven or eight years had intervened since they took place, and since any circumstances had very particularly required him
hear224point d'appui223hear222221Mr. Secretary Peel
hearhear and a laughhear228hear227hear, hear226hear, hearhear225 [on the motion that the Lords Commissioners Speech be taken into consideration], rose.—He said, he wished briefly to state his reasons for having voted for the Amendment to the Address on the first night of the session, not having had a previous opportunity of addressing the House, and finding himself compelled to differ from most of those with whom he generally acted, he felt bound to state shortly the grounds on which he gave that vote for the Amendment on the first day of the session. Some friends of his, upon that (the Opposition) side of the House, had stated that they voted for the Amendment through the delicate fear, not generally entertained in that quarter, of turning the ministers out. The hon. member for Norwich (Mr. W. Smith) vaunted his experience; though
hearhear and a laughhear228hear227hear, hear226hear, hearhear225Mr. G. Lamb
hear, hearhear229 said, he trusted the House would indulge him for a very few moments, while he endeavoured to explain one or two points of his former observations, which had been very much misconstrued by the hon. Member for Dungarvon (Mr. Lamb). That hon. Member had assumed that he (Mr. Peel) argued for the necessity and propriety of non-interference, on the ground, that they could not depart from that course, through the fear of being called on to engage in war. Now, so cautious had he been against any misconstruction of his language with regard to war, that throughout the whole of the observations he addressed to the House on the subject of the foreign policy of the country, he most studiously avoided the
hear, hearhear229Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he could not lose the opportunity of expressing his approbation of that part of his Majesty's Speech which promised a reform of the Court of Chancery; and observed, that although it must be admitted there was considerable distress at present, he hoped the day was not far distant when the country would again enjoy prosperity.Lord Mandeville
hearhear230 said, he thought it necessary to observe, that although his Majesty's Speech declared the distress to be temporary, and confined to the agricul-
hearhear230Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had somewhat irregularly charged him with having imputed sinister motives to the hon. Member for Kent. Now he was too old a Member of Parliament not to know that it was improper to impute any motives to hon. Members, and as far as the hon. Member for Kent was concerned, he was the last man to whom he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be inclined to impute sinister motives.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 only begged to say one word upon a subject to which so many gentlemen had adverted,—he meant our foreign policy, and the estimation in which we were held on the Continent. Certainly, in the eyes of foreigners, the whole tenour of our foreign policy was changed. They believed it to be the very reverse of that upon which we had acted two years ago. How we should recover the character we had thus lost he did not know; we could not do better than to act honestly and profess sincerely, but he feared it would be a long time first, though he was convinced that the declaration, which he had heard with so much pleasure from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) that night, would be sincerely acted on.Lord Normanby
 rose merely for the purpose of adverting to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bristol with respect to the state of Ireland, and he must observe that he had that morning received letters in which the distress existing in that country was painted in the strongest colours. He was sure that nothing would strike the Irish people with more astonishment than to hear that any doubt was entertained in this country of the distress under which they were labouring.Mr. O'Council
hear242 said, he by no means agreed with the opinions of the hon. Gentleman, who seemed to think that all the measures of the existing Ministry had tended to promote the general interest of the country, and had been the result of deliberate wis-
hear242Mr. Attwood
hear said, he was of opinion that it would be highly impolitic for the Legislature to extend a remunerative protection to the agricultural interest any more than to those who were concerned in cotton, iron, or linen. Agriculture ought to be protected only in the same ratio with whatever else paid a duty; for example— in the same proportion with glass. The profits of agriculture were abated by the payment of tithes, which so far entitled the parties interested to be placed on a footing-similar with those rated in another form. He attributed the distress of such numbers of the people to the want of a local circulation; and in practical proof of the correctness of such reasoning he could demonstrate that money was scarce broughout the whole of the kingdom, while on the other hand articles of consumption were plentiful. It was very possible that the real privations of the people were, in a great degree, to be ascribed to the affluence and strength of the national resources. In his elaborate treatise on political economy, Mr. Ricardo, if he remembered rightly, had explained the principle by stating that when great and opulent nations had a redundancy of wealth, capital naturally competed with capital, and in the end produced low profits to the working classes: yet that low profits were proofs not of poverty but of wealth. Thus, although the wealth of the country might continue the same, public distress would nevertheless arise. To this state of things, in his opinion, we had now come. He apprehended that the people would for a long time suffer from low prices; and yet perhaps, high prices were the greater evil of the two. If labour were remunerated at high wages, we could not exchange it profitably in other parts of the world, and so bad would become worse. As to steam machinery, he considered it a principal source of our prosperity. In fact, it was to that we were chiefly indebted for our ability to pay taxes. [hearMr. Maberly
245 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to enable incumbents of livings in England and Wales to enter into renewable Compositions for their Tithes, by agreement with the owners of land in their respective parishes. He conceived it to be needless to detain the House at any length, in moving for leave to bring-in the bill. Addressing landowners, he need not inform them of the inconveniences they sustained from the present system of tithes; and an extensive correspondence in which he had been engaged with parochial clergy, satisfied him that they were as anxious as the landholders for some change in the mode of collecting tithe. He felt the importance of not approaching such a subject rashly and inconsiderately; and he was therefore glad to avail himself of the precedent, which had been set in the numerous private acts passed on this subject. To each of these the consents of the bishop, the patron, the incumbent, and the landowners, had been given, and he therefore felt assured, that from a measure following strictly the course that had been adopted in them, no injury could accrue to any party. The present bill was of a permissive nature. It only went to authorise the appointment of commissioners at once, instead of requiring a private act in every instance. Those commissioners being necessarily men of education—men placed beyond, the suspicion of countenancing anything unfair—justice might reasonably be expected to be done to all parties. They would be judges of the reports of the tithe valuers, by whom the, value of the tithes
245Mr. Greene
 replied.—His great object was, to put an end to those litigations which so much disturbed the harmony between clergymen and their parishioners.Mr. Greene
hear, hearhearargumentum ad hominemhearde factode facto241hear240heartables d'hâte,239hear238hear237hearhear236some' at.hear235 said, he did not rise on this endless subject to follow any of the several hon. Members who had preceded him into the theories which each raised as
hear, hearhearargumentum ad hominemhearde factode facto241hear240heartables d'hâte,239hear238hear237hearhear236some' at.hear235Mr. A. Baring
 said, the hon. member for Surrey had proposed the abolishment of the Lord-lieutenancy of Ireland. To this he (Mr. O'Connell) objected. There were seven thousand persons in Dublin living on the charity of three-halfpence a day; and if the duke of Northumberland did not spend his thirty thousand pounds a-year (which he drew from this country) among them, there would be many more in the same condition, or those seven thousand would be still worse off. If the hon. gentleman wanted reduction, let him begin with the lords of the bed-chamber, the lords of the Admiralty, or the lords of the Treasury, and he should have his most cordial assistance.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition on the subject of Negro Slavery. He said that by right of law, no man could be a slave; that if the law were to extend to the colonies, the case would be as it was here, the moment alleged slaves came within the reach of the remedy, of the lord chief justice's power, they were free. He should in the course of the session move a bill on this subject. The petition was from Cork.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition from Francis Lyons and others, complaining of the undue return of G. Callaghan, esq.—ordered to be taken into consideration upon Thursday the 25th day of this instant February, at the same time that the petition of Daniel Meagher, and others, electors, is ordered to be taken into consideration; and Mr. Speaker to issue his warrants for persons papers and records.Mr. O'Connell
 gave notice of his intention to bring in a bill, on Tuesday the 2nd of March, to alter the act of the 59th of the late king, entitled "An Act to amend the Laws for the Relief of the Poor"—as it regards the rating of the owners of lodging houses, and to extend it to all houses, &c. let under ten pounds a year.Mr. Wodehouse
 also gave notice of his intention, after Easter, to move for a committee to inquire into the duties and regulations respecting sea-borne coals.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, he had supported the Address, because he could not concur with those members who drew so melancholy a picture of the state of the country. He had recently returned from Scotland, and certainly he had not seen any thing of the agricultural distress which some gentlemen talked of. There might, it was true, be some delay in the collection of rents as compared with former years, but there was nothing of that overwhelming distress of which he had heard. Whatever of distress was felt, and he did not deny that some existed, arose from the state of the seasons, and from other causes which human foresight could not have prevented He denied the accuracy of the statement that the distress in Scotland was severe, and unprecedented. The harvest of 1828 had exceeded in Scotland the general average in England; so that the Scotch had been enabled to export corn to supply the markets of England. He was satisfied that the distress in England arose from circumstances over which it was impossible that either his Majesty's Ministers or any other persons could have any control.Sir J. Stewart
hear, hear said, if the hon. member for Clare was right in his principle, every sinecurist would have a right to say, "continue my income, and I will spend it for the good of the country." [hear, hearMr. Hume
 observed, in reply, that the motion the hon. member had given notice of would probably occupy some time; and, as he (Mr. Hume) did not wish to bring his own on late in the evening, he would postpone his own motion till Monday next; besides, it would take natural precedence of his motion: if there were to be reduction of expenditure the House would be more strongly justified in demanding diminution of taxation.Mr. Hume
 begged, in reply to any such language, to be permitted to deny that he contemplated anything in the way of what was termed "spoliation;" he wished every thing to be done on the principle of fair and equitable compensation, and he disclaimed any intention or desire to deprive the clergy of their just claims to public support.Mr. Hume
hear247bona fidehear, and a laugh246 said, he was not sorry to see this subject again brought under the consideration of the House. He, however, must deprecate a clause which it was proposed to introduce; namely, that enabling the clergy to enjoy the effects of capital expended in the improvement of land, and so far discouraging the honest industry employed in its cultivation. The peculiar feature of—thence the peculiar objection to—a tithe-tax was, that it was a tax upon industry, increasing with the application of labour to agriculture, and as a consequence tending to restrict that application. When it was first levied, it was paid in kind, solely because there existed no other mode of payment equally convenient; but since commerce and the change
hear247bona fidehear, and a laugh246Mr. Hume
 said, he hoped, that before the House should be called on to vote the supplies, Ministers would lay before them a statement of the promised reductions in public expenditure. The custom had been too much neglected of late years, but he expected that a complete preliminary view of ways and means would on this occasion be submitted. Indeed, in the event of any reluctance to do so being manifested, the House would be wanting to itself if it proved backward to enforce it; he for one should use his utmost endeavour to enforce such preliminary explanation.Mr. Hume
233 said, it was quite unfair to urge the prosperous condition of some districts, or the thriving trade carried on by certain overgrown capitalists engaged in manufactures, as proofs of the general prosperity of the country. Such statements were calculated only to mislead the public mind, if, indeed, it did not already too severely feel the general pressure to be misled by any statements to the contrary. The hon. Member had stated, that a great number of hands were employed by the manufacturers; but the fact was, that in many cases those hands were retained in order that they might have the means of existence. He also differed entirely from some hon. Members in attributing the distress which existed in the agricultural districts to a bad harvest. He had never asserted that the distress in the country was so universal that there was no instance to be found of a single class of persons by whom it was not felt. He admitted that there were some exceptions to the universality; but, as in other cases, the exceptions only established the general rule. The members of the Stock Exchange, the great capitalists, for example, were probably among those exceptions. But the industrious and productive classes of the people, those by whom the greater number of the Members of that House were sent thither, were suffering severe distress. Attempts had been made by various hon. Members to understate the real condition of the country's affairs; but there were sources of information which, if they would apply to them, would show them the fact. If they wished to know the state of the commercial interest, let them look at the bankrupt list; if they wished to know the state of the lower classes, let them look at the amount of the poor-rates: those were the best criteria by which they could judge of the general state of the country. He had that morning seen a document, the result of a meeting in a populous district near Manchester. This document was signed by the Chairman; and it stated that the distress was overwhelming. He would abstain from saying anything on the state of the currency, because that was a subject which would probably soon be brought under the consideration of the
233Mr. Sadler
232l.a laugh said, he had heard one or two circumstances within the last few days, which went far to illustrate the partial nature of the distress. He had conversed with a gentleman connected with a great manufacturing house in Gloucestershire, who told him that their business was so good that the house had written to him to take no more orders, as they could not in six months comply with all they had already received, and that every hand which they had ever employed was in full work. He had also dined the other day with a gentleman who had been lately in Dublin, in Ireland, [232l.a laughMr. H. Davis
234 said, he could bear testimony to the existence of extreme distress in those parts of the country with which he was acquainted. In the city and county of the city of Coventry, and in many parts of Warwickshire, and in other places, there were thousands in such a state of distress as not to be able to support themselves. He could also state from information received from the directors of the poor, that many persons who were formerly in comfortable circumstances were in that state, that they were withheld solely by feelings of shame from receiving parochial aid. In one district of the county of Warwick, there was a parish containing
234Mr. Fyler
 said, he had to complain of the mistake which had been made in attributing to Mr. Canning a determined opposition to the repeal of the Test and Corporation acts: all that his right hon. friend had contended against was, the passing of this measure by itself, to the detriment of the Roman Catholic question, which was the more important one.Mr. Huskisson
 then presented the Order in Council for consolidating the several laws for improving the condition of Slaves in his majesty's colonies. [For which paper see the preceding report of the Lords.]Mr. W. Peel
.—In private conversations which he had held with Mr. Canning, that gentleman declared that he would not oppose the repeal of the Test and Corporation acts when the proper opportunity for removing them arrived.Mr. W. Smith
243ds. said, he wished to know what was to become of the farmer, or how he was to gain a livelihood, when told by a high parliamentary authority that overproduction was the cause of all his distress? When the loaf was 1243ds.Mr. Trant
 said, he thought that a measure of such extensive interference would be neither more nor less than a positive spoliation of property. When gentlemen purchased land, and farmers took it on lease, they did so having made calculations of the amount to be mutually deducted from the purchase-money or the rent, as tithes. He was sure the country gentlemen of England would never suffer the vested rights of the clergy to be thus invaded. He never wished to see the clergy made the subject of spoliation.Mr. Trant
231 begged to state that he had voted for the Amendment the other night merely because it stated more truth than the Address. At the same time, he approved of the pacific policy recommended in the Speech, and enforced by the Ministers, and he was not one of those who desired any alteration in the currency. He meant to vote for all inquiries that should be proposed this session, and in that spirit he voted for the Amendment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had warned them against voting for the Amendment, on the supposition that the hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Knatchbull) was actuated by some sinister motive in pro-
231Mr. Robinson
220219218217hearhearthere being much noise in the House at the time216hear wished to put some questions to the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel) which he considered of a very serious character as regarded the due exercise of our power as a nation, and a just respect on our part for national good faith: he alluded to the subject of our conduct between Spain and the states of Colombia and Mexico [220219218217hearhearthere being much noise in the House at the time216hearSir Robert Wilson
215 said, when Mr. Canning was asked whether he would assist in car-
215Sir R. Wilson
l267 said, he observed that the Act of the 9 Geo. 4. had, by some mistake, omitted to point out the method by which the sum arising from licensing Lunatic Asylums was to be disposed of; he now moved for leave to
l267Mr. R. Gordon
 seconded the motion, and leave being given, Mr. Gordon brought in the bill; it was read a first time.Mr. Lyttleton
hearlmesne process268 said, he thought that the hon. Member was scarcely warranted in assuming that nothing had been done to improve the law on these subjects for some years, when it was recollected that his honourable friend the then Solicitor General (Sir C. Tindall) brought in, and carried through Parliament a bill, only two
hearlmesne process268Mr. Secretary Peel
269 said, he could give the hon. Gentleman no assurance upon that point.
269Mr. Peel
hear replied, that he had no objection to produce the evidence; but it ought to be accompanied with the evidence of other individuals taken on the same occasion. [hearThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the present state of the Affairs of the East India Company, and into the Trade between Great Britain, the East Indies, and China; and to report their observations thereupon to the House."hearhear276hearhear275hearhearhear274hearhearhearhear273hearhear272 said, his Majesty's Government had felt it to be their duty to avail themselves of the very earliest opportunity to redeem the pledge which they gave at the close of the last session of Parliament, that as soon as possible after the commencement of the present session, they would themselves propose a Committee of Inquiry, for the purpose of investigating the state of the commerce between this country and our Indian possessions. And if, in proposing that Committee, his statement should appear disproportionate to the vast importance of the subject, or if he forbore from entering on the present occasion, into the manifold and most interesting details which were necessarily mixed up with it, he begged it to be understood, that he took that course, not from any insensibility to the paramount greatness of the question, but from a recollection of the peculiar position in
"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the present state of the Affairs of the East India Company, and into the Trade between Great Britain, the East Indies, and China; and to report their observations thereupon to the House."hearhear276hearhear275hearhearhear274hearhearhearhear273hearhear272Mr. Secretary Peel
 hoped to be able to give the honourable Member a satisfactory answer. The Committee would be sufficiently extensive to ensure on all occasions a full attendance for the despatch of business; and it would also be numerous enough to subdivide itself for financial purposes. He would now read the list he had drawn up to the House. It would be seen that it was an ample one, and he hoped it would be observed that he had attempted to give the commercial and landed interests a fair representation therein. There were of necessity the names of many hon. Members left out whose services would undoubtedly be of advantage to the Committee; but he begged those Gentlemen to believe, that the omission had not proceeded from disrespect, or from anything like disregard for the zeal and talent they could bring with them to the inquiry. Hon. Members would be pleased to bear in mind that his duty had been to make a selection. He had done so to the best of his ability, and he hoped it would meet the approbation of the House. He would read the list.— The right hon. Gentleman then read the following list:—Mr. Secretary Peel
283 said, there was no idea of imposing any thing like a close restriction upon the Committee, whose decision would, of course, be founded upon the evidence adduced before them. With respect to the word 'present,' he had found it in the motion for the Committee of 1813, and he thought himself safer in taking the very words used with respect to that Committee than he could be with any other. Now as to the representation of the different interests in the Committee, he had laboured to make it as full and impartial as possible, and he did really think the commercial interests were sufficiently represented in having introduced the Members for Liverpool, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Preston, Lancashire, Staffordshire, Dublin, Limerick, and Yorkshire; and surely there was no want of the names of eminent advocates of their interests. He found the names of Mr. Baring, Mr. Irving, and Mr. Poulett Thomson, than whom none were more highly looked up to
283Mr. Secretary Peel
292hearan exclamation of no, no291 said, he was of opinion that an immediate and extensive inquiry ought to be instituted into the administration of justice in India. He especially reprobated the practice of appointing local Judges in the provinces by the Government, without due inquiry into their qualifications. Those Judges were dependent on the Government, and were removable at the pleasure of Government, which gave the Government an influence over them utterly inconsistent with the impartial administration of justice. In support of this statement, he would read an opinion which was given two years ago by the Master of the Rolls, Sir John Leach, in delivering his judgment on an appeal brought before him from the decision of one of those local Indian courts. It stated, that he had before had occasion to deplore the constitution of those Courts, as giving rise to a partial and disgraceful mode of administering justice; and that on that occasion he had represented the matter to the Board of Control, with a view to the correction of the evil, recommending that those Judges should be appointed at home: but the President expressed his opinion that the jealousies existing between the King's servants and the Company were so great, that it would be impossible to interfere. The present case had been decided in the Court of Surat, contrary to every principle of law and justice. He had forwarded copies of the proceedings to the President of the Council, as evidence of the mode in which justice had been administered in this Court; and he had taken the opportunity of requesting the President to re-consider
292hearan exclamation of no, no291Mr. Stewart
 explained.—He had only inferred that Sir J. Malcolm had sent the letter.Mr. Stewart
294 said, in the course of the observation she had made, he had expressly stated that his hope was, that the House would reserve to itself a judgment on these important matters, and he had no difficulty in assuring his hon. friend that he, for one, should be content that, on so important an occasion, the Committee should only report the evidence, and abstain from making observations with a view to bind the judgment of the House. There might be great inconvenience in the Committee presenting a summary of the evidence. Questions might arise connected with the administration of justice; to which the Committee might think it. important to call the attention of the House. If they were precluded from making observations, they would have no such power. In the case of the Committee on the state of Ireland, they had power to report observations, and they presented a general summary of their inquiries, but abstained
294Mr. Peel
hear said, he did not complain of the hon. Member for finding fault with him in the appointment of the Committee, but for making his objection in that respect the ground of a suspicion that the Government intended to renew the Charter. He had stated, in the few observations with which he had introduced this subject to the House, that he did not propose that Committee with a view of ratifying any engagement of any kind, or of sanctioning any previous arrangements made by the Government with respect to any commercial or trading speculation. [hearMr. Peel
valeant quantum302301300prima facie said, as the Bank Charter had been alluded to, he trusted that as little delay as possible would be interposed between inquiry, because it was a matter of importance to the public. With respect to the present Committee, the subject was of such importance and extent, that if the inquiry was to be directed to one particular point, the members of the Committee ought to be informed of it at once. One word on the subject which had been started by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Astell). If it were not that the Committee really wanted the information which gentlemen connected with the East India Company were best able to afford for the purpose of explaining the subject they were appointed to consider, he should not notice it. The necessity for obtaining information from these gentlemen was very great; but he must say that, valeant quantum302301300prima facieMr. Baring
see page would now propose the names of the Committee (see pageMr. Secretary Peel
 said, he was not aware that the hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. W. Burrell) would be unable to attend. He had been selected as a representative of a county mainly interested in the growth of Wool. Sir R. Vyvian might be considered as a country gentleman, but he was one of the representatives for a very important county. Admitting most freely the right of Yorkshire to have a voice on the Committee, it would be observed that on this account the name of Lord Milton would be found in the list.—Between England, Ireland, Scotland, and the Government, great difficulty had been experienced in choosing Members properly to represent all interests.Mr. Peel
 consented immediately to that hon. Member's appointment.Mr. Peel
l1See page311The Devil's in him if he feigns.""He who hangs, or beats out's brains,lhear310dssdssdsssssdsds309sssss308***lll307llll306 said, he brought forward his present motion, in pursuance of the pledge he had given on the subject, to call for papers that would
l1See page311The Devil's in him if he feigns.""He who hangs, or beats out's brains,lhear310dssdssdsssssdsds309sssss308***lll307llll306Mr. Alderman Waithman
hearl323ll said, he was not surprised that the hon. Member for Aberdeen should be hailed as a great authority on the state of the nation by hon. Members opposite (on the Treasury bench) since his statements went to bear out their ill-founded assertions. But the hon. Member had a condition of his own, which went, if examined, to upset the very doctrines which he meant to uphold. The hon. Member had, on various occasions, contended that the present Free Trade system gave to us the market of the world; and yet strangely argued that there should be a reduction of 20,000,000hearl323llMr. Attwood
 said, he must protest against personal motives being attributed.Mr. Attwood
hear, and order.—If any hon. Member imputes to me any measure of dishonesty or fraud it is perfectly false. [hear, and orderMr. Attwood
 said, he thought all persons who were paid in a depreciated currency, had a fraud committed on them.Mr. Attwood
 moved the preliminary Resolution on the Lords Commissioners Speech— "That a Supply be granted."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
326in limine regretted that some Member more conversant with the forms of the House did not rise to oppose the Speaker's leaving the Chair. The distresses of the country were so great, the cries of the people for relief were so loud, and the promises of his Majesty's Ministers were so vague and unsatisfactory, that he felt himself called upon in duty to oppose 326in limineThe Marquis of Blandford
 said, he did not come to the House prepared for any such amendment as the present. He understood, certainly, that an amendment was to be moved in the Committee of Supply on Friday, to which the present motion was a mere formal preparation. He hoped the noble Lord would withdraw his motion, or, if he were determined to press it to a division, he thought the better way would be to postpone the Committee, as, in the present state of the House, [twenty-eight Members only were present], no division could take place, the calling for a division would be to have the House counted out. The noble Lord had certainly adopted a novel course towards the House, and which was not likely to make a very favourable impression on the public generally; but he had the power, and he must use it as he pleased.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.— I am no party to any understanding as to any motion on Friday. If hon. Members are not present to do their duty to the people, it is no fault of mine; here am I to do my duty; I shall divide.The Marquis of Blandford
 explained: when he used the term fraud, he meant not to apply it to individuals, but merely to represent that any act to depreciate the currency would be a fraud on the country.Mr. Thomson
 said, he did not intend to impute personal motives.Mr. Thomson
 said, in reference to the opinion the hon. Member was known to hold, he must repeat what he said; that he could not but conceive that a measure which would reduce the standard of the country was one calculated to effect a fraud; and he was glad of an opportunity to speak of the measure, that the House might not be led to adopt schemes of that kind. The distress occasioned by overproduction was not remediable by legislative enactments, nor could any retrenchment cut off a very great sum from the expenditure of the country. A remedy might be found in a mutation of taxation. A large proportion of the taxes pressed on the industrious classes, whilst those who were better able to bear them were exempt. The hon. Member (Mr. Attwood) had said, that any one who asserted, as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Courtenay) had, that we could receive Imports from a country which prohibited our Exports, asserted what was absurd and dangerous. He (Mr. Thomson) considered, that it was equally absurd and dangerous to assert the contrary. The Imports must have been purchased either by our Exports or those of some other country. He wished the system of official values not to be abandoned, because it showed quantity more conveniently than any other mode.— He would not say more on this subject now, as many opportunities would occur when it might be more advantageously discussed.Mr. Thomson
 said, if the hon. Member had brought a just accusation against his Majesty's Ministers, a much juster accusation could be brought against him. He believed the distress of the country to be great, though not universal; but however great it might be, he could not believe that a remedy for it existed in the use of language that must inflame, or that it could answer any useful purpose to proclaim any part of the House to be indifferent to the distress of the people. The hon. Member having described on a former evening his object as to the depreciation of the standard, the House now knew how to meet him, and gentlemen must beware how they aided a plan which was calculated to be a fraud on the country.Mr. P. Thomson
hearl moved for an abstract or return of the number of causes and matters pending in the high Court of Chancery, to the credit of which any sum of money is vested in the Bank Annuities or in cash (presented 4th June 1829), to be prepared, and laid before the House.—He said they showed that forty millions were ingulphed in that court; and that upwards of eight hundred causes concerned property under 200hearlMr. D. W. Harvey
l said, it was worthy of notice, that out of twenty thousand arrests, seventeen thousand were for sums under 100lMr. D. W. Harvey
l said, he knew of a case where one man arrested another for 60,000lMr. O'Connell
mandamus presented petitions from parishes in Cork, complaining of the Vestry and Subletting Acts. And after referring to the cases of the petitioners for the purpose of showing the great abuses practised on the levying of vestry rates in parishes where a very small number of the inhabitants are Protestants, gave notice of his intention to move for the repeal of a portion of the Act of George the 2nd, in order to enlarge the power of the King's Bench in granting a mandamusMr. O'Connell
 moved an Address to his Majesty for a Copy of the Minutes of the Evidence of Alexander Baring, before the Privy Council, on 26th April, 1828, touching the adoption of a Silver Standard, &c. He would withdraw the motion if the Government would produce the evidence.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, the answer of the right hon. Secretary was perfectly satisfactory to him.Mr. Littleton
 said, he should not approve of the Committee reporting its opinion too early to the House upon this important question. The report of a Committee did not bind the House, but it went far towards prejudicing public opinion, and was certainly an instrument in the hands of Government to effect a corresponding feeling in the House, In the year 1813, when the renewal of the Charter was under consideration, the course taken was, the House required from the Government its views in the shape of a resolution, and then, evidence was taken preparatory to the House expressing its own views. That course was erroneous, and the result proved that it was so. All that the country had a right to expect was, that the truth should be fully and fairly investigated, and he therefore approved of the method now proposed to be pursued.Mr. Littleton
.—All that I have stated, Sir, is, that the manuscript copy varies from the printed copy. I do not carry it further. I do not pretend that it is correct.Mr. Bankes
 said, he had been misunderstood. All he meant to say was, that he did not know from whom Sir J. Grant received the letter. It was marked "private."Mr. Bankes
293 said, he must add that he had not stated that a copy of the letter
293Mr. G. Bankes
290289288hearcry of no, no287286hear285Cheers, laughter284** said, he was very anxious to address the House upon the subject of some reflections which had been cast upon a noble friend (Lord Ellenborough). He certainly had been embarrassed on a former evening, when the subject was suddenly introduced, and at a time when his noble friend was labouring under severe domestic affliction, which had prevented him (Mr. B.) from seeing him for a long time previous, or from speaking to him upon the subject of the letter which had been attributed to him. [Lord E. had recently lost his son]. He (Mr. B.) also felt embarrassed on other grounds. He then thought there would have been a necessity of alluding to circumstances affecting another person, and circumstances for which he would be, in all probability, put upon trial. The person he alluded to was Sir John Grant, and he was, of course, anxious to avoid saying any thing which might tend to raise a prejudice against one who was shortly to be put upon his trial.— He had since, however, ascertained that the charges preferred against Sir J. Grant, were in consequence of circumstances which had taken place before his noble friend had written the letter, and therefore the difficulty was removed. He had also
290289288hearcry of no, no287286hear285Cheers, laughter284**Mr. G. Bankes
303 said, it appeared to him that the Government ought to have determined on some definite line of conduct, and to have brought a measure down to that House, and called on them to confirm it; and then, if doubt had been expressed, to request to refer it to a Committee. That would have been a more agreeable mode of proceeding. He agreed with the hon. Member for Callington, (Mr. Baring) that the question, by the present mode of proceeding, might be thrown over to another Session. He only rose to claim, on his own part, the fullest right to investigate the evidence laid before the Committee, when it should come under the notice of the House; and he could almost venture to propose that it should be an instruction to the Committee to report the evidence, and not their opinions; for in what situation would the House be when influenced by the weight and authority of the opinion of the Committee, without having equal time to gain a knowledge of the evidence on which it was founded? Under these circumstances, and reserving to every Member of the House the right of examine-
303Mr. Bright
, in explanation, said, he was a friend to inquiry, but he thought the Ministers might have prepared their own plans on the subject, and submitted them to the House, and thence to the Committee, for consideration. He remained of that opinion still.Mr. Bright
 begged to give notice that on an early day he would move an instruction to the Committee, to take into consideration the trade with China, and the propriety of removing impediments in the way of a free trade with India.General Gascoyne
297 said, he differed from his right hon. Colleague with respect to the formation of this Committee. He was not satisfied with the appointment, nor with the mode of appointing the Committee. The appointment had evidently been made merely for purposes which Ministers had already settled. Where, in this Committee, were the Members for the various commercial towns? There were none but for Bristol and Liverpool, and only one of the Members was taken from each of these towns. It appeared, therefore, to him that the selection of this Committee was one of which the House could not approve, especially with reference to what was intended in the consideration of this question. Among the rest of the names he saw that of Mr. W. O'Brien, the Member for Ennis. When he saw that name he naturally asked what it was which made that hon. Member the object of selection? and he was answered, "Oh'. He has written a pamphlet infavour of the East India Company." Now that was, or it was not, a reason for naming him on the Committee; and as the hon. Member did not seem to have any particular interest in the question, he might not be very objectionable; but if there were opportunity, he (Gen. Gascoyne) thought he knew different individuals whom he might recommend, and who were at least full as well calculated to be members of the Committee as the hon. Member for Ennis, although they had not been named upon it. From this and other circumstances, he did verily believe that Ministers had already come to some con-
297General Gascoyne
hear.—If the right hon. Gentleman has, as I suppose he has, prepared a list of the proposed Committee, will he object to read the names to the House? The House may then judge how far the professed impartiality is to be carried. [hearSir J. Macdonald
 begged to suggest whether there were not many gentlemen on the list who were too deeply interested in the question to come to its consideration without some bias. He thought, therefore, the list might be advantageously reduced, by blotting out the three East India directors.Sir James Macdonald
hear282hearhearhear281hear, and laughterrenewIwe280hear agreed with the right hon. Secretary as to the inexpediency of entering upon any detailed discussion upon the present occasion. He trusted, however, that all possible facility would be afforded the Committee to acquire information upon all such subjects as they may consider deserving of inquiry. [hear282hearhearhear281hear, and laughterrenewIwe280hearSir James Macdonald
 could not but defend the general conduct of the East India Directors, and of the official men who conducted their Government in India. He felt disposed to complain that persons were to be on the Committee who were not qualified for the task.Mr. J. Stewart
 suggested that Mr. Stewart from his extensive and local knowledge, would be a most valuable addition to the number.Mr. Hume
318dddlaughterhear317hear from Mr. Waithman316 begged leave to second the motion; but he must at the same time take leave to show that his hon. friend was completely mistaken in the conclusions he attempted to draw from the apparent decrease of the real over the official value since the year 1814. The Tables from which his hon. friend had taken his statements were drawn up by Mr. Marshall, a gentleman with whom he had long been acquainted; his (Mr. M.'s) object was, to show that the active industry of the country had, within such period, doubled, and nearly trebled, as compared with preceding years. Of the merits of those Tables there was but one opinion; but it was a complete mistake to take the returns of official values of goods passing through the Customs as a criterion of any thing except the mere quantities. In fact they were not so intended, and they very imperfectly, as it was well known, represented values; in so much so that these accounts, in 1798, took the official values at about nineteen millions; whereas it was ascertained that the real value of our exports was in that year full thirty-three millions. The same might be said of the return of the last year's official values, taken as at sixteen millions. It was certainly true that prices had gone down; but it should be recollected that there was a very great depreciation in the cost of the imports. He admitted all that his hon. friend had stated with respect to the decrease in the official value at one period, and its increase at another; but he was prepared at the same time to show that the decrease and increase proved a state of things the very reverse of that supposed by the hon. Member.318dddlaughterhear317hear from Mr. Waithman316Mr. Hume
.—The motion is regular—it requires only a verbal alteration; and its principle I approve:—Before I grant a supply (said the noble Marquis) let there be a redress of grievances.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether the Committee were to be confined to an inquiry into the present state of the government and commerce of India? He trusted this would not be the case, as much benefit might result from an inquiry into the effects which these improvements and institutions which had been made on the occasion of the last Charter had produced upon the country.Mr. Hume
a laugh* thought that more men of business should be added to the list. He recommended Mr. Stewart,a laugh*Mr. Hume
.—How do you know that is correct?Mr. Hume
.—How does the hon. Member know that that is correct?Mr. Hume
llllllmesne process270mesne processllllllmesne process said, he would, in the mean time, move for Returns of the number of' prisoners for debt committed to the custody of the keepers of the King's-bench, the Fleet, Whitecross-street, the Marshalsca, and Horsemonger-lane prisons, in the year 1829; distinguishing those in custody under llllllmesne process270mesne processllllllmesne processMr. Hume
 said, the principle of the division of labour would be of service. He hoped that the right hon. Secretary would think of some other mode of giving-relief to the public on this subject than by that of the protracted labours of this Commission. No Committee of the House was necessary. His Majesty's Attorney General—he said it without meaning the slightest disrespect to that gentleman— ought to be prepared to bring forward measures of relief for the subject in such cases. He would wait for two months longer; if nothing were done in that time by his Majesty's Government, he would himself bring the matter forward.Mr. Hume
 said, he wished to know how soon the commissioners would prosecute this part of their inquiry? He understood that which they were now engaged upon would take two or three years.Mr. Hume
mesne processdmesne processmesne process said, he had moved for returns of the number of persons committed to the various prisons of the metropolis in the year 1829,; upon arrest for debts under mesne processdmesne processmesne processMr. Hume
271 said, he understood it was the in-
271Mr. M. A. Taylor
304 wished to make a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. During the whole of the last Session that hon. Member was loud in calling for a Committee of that House, yet now he reproached the Ministers for not coming to the House prepared with a measure, and then asking concurrence in it. He had often said, that it was not for Ministers to bring forward measures affecting the interests of large bodies of people, and he called for Committees of Inquiry on subjects with which the welfare of thousands was connected. Now he called on the Ministers to propose legislative measures, and seemed to think inquiry useless. Surely this was a little inconsistent, for was not this a question involving the interests of thousands, nay, indeed, of ninety millions of people? As far as his opportunity of judging went, he would take on himself to say that there was nothing more unfounded than the observation, that the people of this country and of India would not be satisfied with this inquiry. Had Gentlemen who made such assertions read what was constantly passing here, and had they not observed an universal call for inquiry? 'Let us be heard,' was the language pf all who had met to deliberate on this
304Mr. P. Thompson
322vice versâ said, he was willing to admit, that the system of determining the value of our Exports by that called the "official average value," was not altogether as perfect as might be desired; but it was the most perfect that he knew of, or, he would affirm, that any Member of that House had as yet devised. He had tried one or two other modes of arriving at a value of our Exports and Imports, but found them not so successful; and he should be obliged to any hon. Member who would suggest a mode less liable to error than that of the official value. Some artificial standard was necessary, for the difference of kind and size, &c, of commodities rendered mere quantity an inefficient representative of real value. He would not then enter into an analysis of the hon. Alderman's statements, as a more fitting occasion would shortly present itself; but would content himself with contending that increase of Exports proved so far an increased activity of commerce. How could these Exports be made, without an increased amount of shipping, and of the employment of machinery and labour? Hon. Members said that because the price or rate of profit of those Exports was low, that therefore they were of no national benefit; but they forgot that the extent of the market was as the lowness of profits—that if they wished for high prices, they must count on small sales, and 322vice versâMr. Courtenay
325 said, he felt himself called upon to answer the observation of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Courtenay) which implied that Trade was getting better, and that the experiment as to the Silk Trade had succeeded; by asserting that there was now the greatest distress in the Silk Trade, and that principally occasioned by the measures of last Session. Many large Manufacturers were now insolvent. He quite agreed with those who
325Mr. Fyler
299298 said, as he was a Director of the East-India Company, he had not intended to make any remarks on this question beyond that of stating that the Directors wished for nothing more than a very full inquiry on this subject. All he had to complain of, and in that complaint he was supported by his brother Directors, was, that the inquiry had been so long delayed. Inquiry would be most useful, and would remove the mist of
299298Mr. Astell
 said, he could not allow the observations just made to pass without notice. He had not been the individual who originated the objection to Directors of the Company being members of the Committee. At the same time, if he were asked his opinion on the subject, he must state that there was a difference between them and persons who had not the same degree of interest in the concerns of the Company. When the hon. Member spoke of ignorance among the people, and charged it as having been made the means of misleading them, he claimed on his part, as that hon. Member had done on his own, full credit for having in the opinions he had maintained, no other object in view but the interest of the country.Mr. Huskisson
305 admitted that he was well aware of the difficulty of making a selection; and that, at all events, many hon. Members must be omitted who would be capable of giving valuable assistance. He thought, however, that in the list of names, many had been included who
305Mr. Huskisson
 explained.—He had not intended to cast any imputations upon the Court of Directors.Mr. Huskisson
296hear, heara laugh295 said, the question now before the House was not the transactions which had occurred at Bombay, or the letter of the right hon. the President of the Board of Control; but the question was, exclusively the state of affairs between this country and India. As, however, reference had been made to the letter, he must, for one, enter his protest against its being considered a mere private letter. He could not admit that the letter of any adviser of the Crown, addressed to another public servant, in a very distinguished situation, and treating exclusively of matters of the very highest importance, was not fit to come under the cognizance of Parliament. Were it made the matter of a substantive motion, he should rind it difficult to reconcile to his feelings the character given of it by an hon. Member, that it tended in no degree to lower the dignity or independence of the Judges. The letter was a matter of great public importance. Nothing was less compatible with the dignity of a Judge than to be in the unfortunate situation of being obliged to undergo the discipline to which a wild elephant was submitted. As to the question itself, he had heard with the greatest satisfaction the proposal of his right hon. friend, thereby redeeming the pledge given last session by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that a Committee should be appointed, and that the Committee should have all the necessary powers for going into a comprehensive, general, and effective inquiry into the interests which connected this country with British India. After the explanation which had been given, no one could doubt that this would embrace every necessary inquiry. That Committee, he had no doubt, would inquire into the administration of criminal and civil justice; and if they did not do this, they would find it difficult to enter upon the improvement of the civil condition of the natives of India. In like manner, when finances were inquired into, he trusted that the Committee would not
296hear, heara laugh295Mr. Huskisson
 said, he would not enter into the discussion at that late hour, though, if any thing could move him, it would be the quantity of unnecessary and incorrect matter which had been lavished on the subject.Mr. Huskisson
hear and a laugh said, he must complain of the use of the word 'fraud' in the speech of an hon. Gentleman, and said it was unfair to attribute improper motives to those Members who stood up in their places honestly to discharge their duty. He noticed this because what was said in that House went forth to the country, and he repeated that such assertions ought not to be made. He would say why his attention was called to the question of the currency. He had listened with attention to the debates, and when he found it stated that the money was accumulating in a few hands, and the general condition of the people was falling off, he thought it time for independent men to [speak out. It was a lamentable state, and it was, in the political body, what would be called in the physical a determination of blood to the head. [hear and a laughMr. Trant
278hearhearhearhear277 said, he felt that the line which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) had adopted in his address to the House was the most proper. He thought that the course he (Mr. Peel) had pursued, in declining to enter upon the examination of details connected with the question, and in avoiding bringing forward any points which might give rise to opposition, was, under all the circumstances of the case, decidedly the most prudent that could have been adopted. He thought the same course should be followed by all the other hon. Members who proposed to speak upon the question. They were then on the eve of an inquiry, the magnitude and importance of which certainly had not been over-stated, and perhaps could not be over-stated by the right hon. Secretary; for all men must agree that this question was one involving more extensive interests and more important considerations than any other that could now be possibly brought before the legislature of this country. But though not in the least desirous to provoke that discussion which the right hon. Gentleman so strongly deprecated, there was one observation which occurred to him, and which he
278hearhearhearhear277Mr. W. Whitmore
 requested the hon. Member to abstain from such observations. He felt persuaded that the hon. Member for Dover had used the observations only in the way of argument.The Speaker
bona fide321320319 said, that notwithstanding the hard terms dealt out by the hon. Member for Aberdeen against those who did not agree with him in their notions of commercial policy, he could not avoid offering a few observations to the House. The hon. Gentleman appeared to have mistaken the object of the hon. Alderman's motion, which went no further than to show that the accounts of the official value of Exports, as they were made up, could not be fairly considered as a proof of the prosperity of the country. The hon. Gentleman appeared to him also to have mistaken the argument of the hon. Alderman as to the decreased value of the Exports. In fact, the hon. Gentleman had gone so far as to infer an increase of prosperity from the decreased value of the Exports. In what did the value of the Exports consist? It consisted of two elements— the capital, and the labour employed. If then, as unfortunately was the case in this country at the present moment, the price of labour was too low to afford a fair remuneration, could it be considered in any other light than as a proof that the commerce of the country was on the decline? But no, said the hon. Member for Aberdeen, it is a proof that your commerce is increasing, and consequently is in a state of prosperity. It had been said that those who were opposed to the principle of Free Trade did not sufficiently estimate the importance of foreign commerce. But when the hon. Gentleman contemplated making other nations tributary to this country, he should remember that it was not in our power, by any measure of internal legislation, to effect so desirable a purpose. We must first get other nations to agree with us, and he was sure that a right hon. Gentleman opposite—for whose profound theoretical knowledge on such subjects he had the highest respect—he was sure that right hon. Gentleman would not say that we had yet succeeded in bringing other nations to our opinions.—The only point on which he differed from the right hon. Gentleman was this—he understood him to wish that the whole commerce of the world should be thrown open, and conducted as if mankind were all one great and friendly family, exchanging with
bona fide321320319Mr. Robinson
 gave notice of his intention to submit a motion to the House relative to our relations with Portugal, on Thursday, the 18th instant.Lord Palmerston
 presented a petition from certain owners and occupiers of lands in the town and neighbourhood of Boroughbridge, complaining of the pressure of general distress, and praying for the enforcement of strict economy in the national expenditure, a repeal of the Malt duties, and an alteration of the present system of licensing Public-houses.Mr. Duncombe
333 (such bill having been ordered) said, he rose to call for an explanation from the Admiralty, respecting their treatment of a man of the name of Millar, who had been sentenced in December, 1824, to serve on board one of his Majesty's ships for the space of five years, in consequence of his participation in some smuggling transactions. On the 23rd of December of last year, the term of his imprisonment expired, and he then applied, but in vain, for his release. He repeated
333Mr. F. Baring
 said, no steps had been taken for the removal of the learned gentleman, the matter was under the consideration of the Privy Council.Mr. Peel
 gave notice that he would, on the 17th February, move for leave to bring in a bill for the abolition of all Fees required from individuals when acquitted on their discharge from any Criminal Court.Mr. Peel
 said, that as the case of the Borough of East Retford had been well known for several years, he did not mean, in bringing forward his motion, to trouble the House at any length. He had no personal feeling in this question; and he thought it very hard that any such motive should be attributed to him. His object was one of strict justice and fairness. Under all the circumstances, he should say no more at present, except to claim his right to reply to any argument or objection that might be raised against his motion, "That leave be given to bring in a bill to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Borough of East Retford."Mr. N. Culvert
 begged leave to second the motion. In his opinion, the franchise ought to be extended to Birmingham, instead of being given to strengthen an interest which already possessed an overwhelming influence.Mr. Marshall
 said, he thought it was contrary to the principle of the constitution that such towns as Leeds, Birmingham, and Sheffield, should not be properly represented; and whenever a specific motion was brought forward for imparting to them the right to return Members to serve in Parliament, he should give it his strongest support. But he certainly would not benefit those towns by disfranchising other places:—he would not agree to that which would be a bill of Pains and Penalties on East Retford.Mr. Batley
350349 said, he could assure the House that he was by no means unwilling to give an opinion on the present question. His silence hitherto had arisen from deference to his right hon. friend who had just sat down; and who, having been referred to in the discussion, he supposed would wish to avail himself of the earliest opportunity of replying to the allusions that had been made. He had also another reason for his silence. This was not the first occasion on which this question had come before them. The House had, seven or eight times, declared that the franchise of East. Retford should be extended to the hundred of Bassetlaw, and he thought, therefore, that there could be no doubt on the mind of any man that he should adhere to his former conduct, and to the former conduct of the House, in shaping his course on the present occasion. He certainly should vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire, because that motion was, in his opinion, most consonant with his views of correcting an established abuse. His right hon. friend had said that he was no Reformer. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) begged to claim for himself the privilege of disclaiming that title also. His right hon. friend, however, thought by the course he proposed to adopt, he should oppose the wilder schemes of Reform, and take up a defensive position against all attempts to carry such schemes into effect. But he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) on the other hand, thought his course was most consistent with the Constitution of that House. He thought that there was great danger in going even one step towards general Reform,—and such a step he thought this to be. His right hon. friend had told them how important it was that Birmingham, and Leeds, and Manchester, and other great towns should send representatives to that House; and, by what
350349The Chancellor of the Exchequer
353352hear351 said, it was with great regret that he had heard the speech of his light hon. friend who had just sat down. His right hon. friend, in a very lofty tone, commenced an attack on his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson), who sat near him. Now what had his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) said? Why merely that he had taken up a defensive position against the wilder schemes of Reform; that he thought it the duty of the House to watch the
353352hear351Mr. C. Grant
 wished to explain. There was one point on which his right hon. friend had misunderstood him. He knew and stated that he acted on this question according to precedents; the result of which was, that the franchise should be extended to the hundred, unless the hundred were so small, or so full of other boroughs, that such transfer became unadvisable. In this case the hundred did afford a sufficient number of voters in other boroughs.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Cries of Question became very loud and general said, though nominally it might be an extension of representation to transfer the franchise to the hundred, yet as he did not know under whose influence the hundred of Bassetlaw was, he thought it would be better to disfranchise the borough altogether. [Cries of Question became very loud and generalSir F. Blake
358hear357A laugh, in which the right hon. Gentleman joined.356355354 said, he was not surprised at the anxiety of the House to come to a decision on a subject which had already been so frequently and so fully discussed, and he could assure hon. Gentlemen that for this reason it was not his intention to trespass long on their patience. He rose from a wish to disembarrass the question of the extraneous political and personal allusions of his right hon. friend the Member for Liverpool. His right hon. friend argued, that because the Government had selected the same gentleman as Attorney-General who had filled that office under the administration of Mr. Canning, they therefore should adopt the same course in respect to the franchise of a corrupt borough as had been adopted by
358hear357A laugh, in which the right hon. Gentleman joined.356355354Mr. Peel
 rose amidst cries of 'question.'—He said, he was anxious to state, that he had no personal acquaintance with the Duke of Newcastle, and was not influenced in this motion by any considerations for the influence of that noble Lord. He did not believe, indeed, that the noble Duke would obtain any increase of influence by the extension of the franchise from East Retford to the hundred. There was a Duke of Newcastle, who, when Minister in the reign of Geo. II., had very great influence in the borough, and it was said gave places under Government to most of the electors, but he believed the present Duke possessed very little if any influence there, and certainly no leading influence in the hundred.Mr. N. Calvert
341 fully agreed with the noble Lord (Howick) that the voters of East Retford were not singly or peculiarly guilty, but he was of opinion, that as their case had been brought forward, and their guilt proved, an example should be made of them. He wished to take advantage of their delinquency, for the purpose of making a beneficial change in the representation, and transferring the elec-
341Lord Normanby
 said, as his right hon. friend, in his explanation, had thought proper to amend his argument, he (Mr. Peel) felt it also necessary to explain. In the first instance his right hon. friend's argument certainly was, that in consequence of the appointments already alluded to, and in consequence of the Government having adopted one great principle, they ought also to adopt the Other principles of Mr. Canning.Mr. Secretary Peel
 explained. He did not mean to throw out any insinuation against the Government, or attribute motives to them which they had disclaimed.Mr. C. Grant
 then brought in a Bill to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Election of Burgesses to serve in Parliament for the Borough of East Retford; which was read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time on Friday, 26th of February.Mr. N. Calvert
384383monnoie foible;monnoie forte,382 moved for accounts of the amount of Sovereigns and Half Sovereigns issued by the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, from 2nd May 1828 to 31st December 1829, both inclusive:—Also, of the same received by them during the same period; distinguishing the amount paid, the amount received, and the balance:—Also, of all Sovereigns and Half Sovereigns coined at the Mint for other persons than the Bank of England, from 2nd May 1828 to 31st December 1829, both inclusive.—In submitting this motion, he must say, it frequently happened that Ministers, in the course of their observations to Parliament, alluded to and quoted from documents which were not before the public, from which circumstance a considerable degree of embarrassment took place. It was a practice, therefore, which it was extremely desirous to have obviated; and to him the best way of obviating it appeared to be to have all such documents previously laid before both Houses of Parliament. A remarkable instance of this kind resulting from the want of this sort of information, occurred the other night in the other
384383monnoie foible;monnoie forte,382Mr. Attwood
388737,0005th of April,—
737,0005th of April,—£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
737,0005th of April,—
737,0005th of April,—£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be458,00010th of Oct.—
458,00010th of Oct.—258,0005th of July,—
258,0005th of July,—318,0005th of April,—
318,0005th of April,—317,0005th of Jan. 1828
317,0005th of Jan. 1828285,00010th of Oct.—
285,00010th of Oct.—244,0005th of July,—
244,0005th of July,—£382,0005th of April, 1827
£382,0005th of April, 1827
458,00010th of Oct.—
458,00010th of Oct.—258,0005th of July,—
258,0005th of July,—318,0005th of April,—
318,0005th of April,—317,0005th of Jan. 1828
317,0005th of Jan. 1828285,00010th of Oct.—
285,00010th of Oct.—244,0005th of July,—
244,0005th of July,—£382,0005th of April, 1827
£382,0005th of April, 1827ll387386385 said, although the hon. Member had accused the Members of his Majesty's Government with supporting their views by fallacious statements respecting the currency, he believed he should be able to show that the hon. Member had formed erroneous conclusions upon the nature of those statements, and that he had himself been guilty of errors not less material than those which he imputed to the Government. The foundation of the principal argument of the hon. Member rested upon the view which he took of certain statements made in another House by the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government, and by him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in the House of Commons, for the purpose of drawing comparisons between the circulation of the country at one period and another, and from these comparisons endeavouring to arrive at some conclusion on the question, of whether or not the distress was produced by the state of that circulation. Now, these comparisons were formed on data of precisely the same character—the calculations were made on foundations precisely similar; and if they were erroneous, as the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose, at one time, they were equally erroneous at another, and therefore the errors, as far as the mere question of comparison went, were calculated to produce very little effect. All that the noble Duke contended for, and all that he himself desired to be drawn from them, was to find some corresponding data, approximating in period and circumstances to each other, through which they could form a comparison as accurate as the subject would admit. The hon. Gentleman says, that the noble Duke urged these comparisons, so formed on erroneous foundations, as a reason for believing that
388737,0005th of April,—
737,0005th of April,—£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
737,0005th of April,—
737,0005th of April,—£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be
£876,0005th of Jan. 1829, to be458,00010th of Oct.—
458,00010th of Oct.—258,0005th of July,—
258,0005th of July,—318,0005th of April,—
318,0005th of April,—317,0005th of Jan. 1828
317,0005th of Jan. 1828285,00010th of Oct.—
285,00010th of Oct.—244,0005th of July,—
244,0005th of July,—£382,0005th of April, 1827
£382,0005th of April, 1827
458,00010th of Oct.—
458,00010th of Oct.—258,0005th of July,—
258,0005th of July,—318,0005th of April,—
318,0005th of April,—317,0005th of Jan. 1828
317,0005th of Jan. 1828285,00010th of Oct.—
285,00010th of Oct.—244,0005th of July,—
244,0005th of July,—£382,0005th of April, 1827
£382,0005th of April, 1827ll387386385The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that he had heard nothing which induced him to change his opinions; he re-asserted his original propositions; and maintained, that both the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government, had greatly overstated the amount of gold that had been, and that was, in circulation.Mr. Attwood
 said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the salaries of public officers. It was well known that half-pay officers, before they received that pay, were obliged to make an affidavit that they possessed no civil employment whatever. What he wanted to know was, whether, in point of fact, officers holding their military rank, and at the same time holding civil offices under the Crown, did or did not receive their military as well as their civil pay? He was aware that it might be said, that the regulation to which he alluded only extended to half-pay. There was also what was called the unattached pay of general officers. There were one hundred and twenty or one hundred and thirty general officers by whom this was received; so that if all the Ministry were composed of such officers, they would receive their military as well as their civil emoluments. He wished also to know what general officers received as colonels; he believed, from six to seven or eight hundred a year. The particular question, however, which he wished to ask was, whether, in point of fact, naval and military servants of the Crown did, while they received civil allowances, also receive military or naval allowances?Mr. R. Gordon
 said, the best mode of obtaining accurate information on the subject would be by moving for a return of the individuals in question, and of the nature and amount of their receipts. As far as he was able to answer the hon. Gentleman, he could state that general officers, who had regiments, did not forfeit the advantages arising there from when they accepted civil situations under the Crown. The regiments were the rewards of military services, and of those rewards they were not deprived. As to half-pay general officers, he was not aware that there were any who held civil appointments under the Crown, With respect to naval officers, the only one who received half pay and held civil appointments, were a few of the Lords of the Admiralty. These were always considered as being employed in their profession, and received their half-pay, together with their civil emoluments.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
391 objected, at that late hour (it being past twelve o'clock) to any proceeding for voting away the public
391Mr. Ald. Waithman
 said, the only Motion to be made in the Committee, if the Motion now before the House were adopted, was the very general one—"that a Supply be granted to his Majesty." Till that Motion was carried the hands of Government were tied, and they were unable even to lay the estimates on the Table.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no wish to embarrass his Majesty's Government, but he must discharge his duty conscientiously. He objected to granting any supply until he knew what Ministers meant to do in the way of reduction and expenditure; and what was the exposition which they were prepared to make on the financial condition of the country.Mr. Alderman Waithman
pro forma, observed, the only way to hasten an exposition of the financial state of the country, was to agree to his right hon. friend's Motion; for unless the House went into a Committee of Supply, pro forma,Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had misunderstood the matter and would withdraw his Amendment.Mr. Alderman Waithman
392 said, he was regardless of the taunts to which he knew he should expose him self by opposing the Motion, but he felt it his duty to take
392The Marquis of Blandford
360 said, whatever might have fallen from him the other night (on moving the Address) as to the ground on which he would support Ministers, he
360Lord Darlington
a laugh, and loud cries of hear, hear389 said, he confessed, that although these discussions did not produce much at present, they tended, in his opinion, to elicit information, and to make the House better acquainted with a very complicated subject. He thought, too, that the statements put forth by the noble Duke in another place were made much too positively and confidently, when the nature of the question was fairly considered; for, although the grounds of the calculations were very clearly explained by the right hon. Gentleman, yet he conceived it to be quite impossible from those calculations, or from, indeed, any other, to come to an accurate conclusion with respect to the real amount of gold remaining in the country. The amount of small notes, and the stamps issued for those of five pounds, depended on accidental circumstances; and he must contend that a great quantity of gold had,
a laugh, and loud cries of hear, hear389Mr. A. Baring
 obtained leave to bring in a Bill for the relief of Parishes from the Expenses of maintaining the Wives and Families of men convicted under the laws for the Prevention of Smuggling, and sentenced to serve his Majesty in his naval service, which was accordingly read a first time.Lord G. Lennox
 obtained leave to bring in a bill for the relief of parishes from the expenses of maintaining the wives and families of men convicted under the laws for the prevention of Smuggling, and sentenced to serve in his Majesty's navy.Lord G. Lennox
336335 hoped, that he should not be accused of pertinacity, if, alter so many
336335Mr. Tennyson
381380ll379in petto378 complained of the sweeping anathema which the Member for Montrose had pronounced against all who had filled legal offices under the Crown. The hon. Member had taken them severely to task, and he (Sir Charles Wetherell) would take him to task. He would ask that hon. Member where he was all the time the Chancery Commission was sitting? It was well known to all who sat upon that Commission that the noble Lord whose conduct had been so severely censured, uniformly attended that Commission; and though a lawyer of the highest eminence, and a magistrate of the highest order, yet he attended that Commission, and communicated with the youngest tyro of the law amongst its members upon the most perfect terms of equality. The other members of that Commission, consisting as it did of great
381380ll379in petto378Sir Charles Wetherell
 said, he thought the several Bills which the Solicitor-General proposed to introduce gave every promise of being highly useful, and as such they claimed his support. It seemed to him that his honourable friend (Mr. Hume) had not been quite fairly dealt with; he had been attacked because he had not previously joined in the complaints which had been preferred against Lord Eldon; but after ail, on the showing of his own eulogists, what had that learned Lord done for the country? He had received more than half a million of its money, and in return, introduced two measures into Parliament. In his opinion, his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) had just grounds for blaming the learned Lord, from the fact of his having been so many years in power, and not having, during all that period, found time to do what the Solicitor-General had done in one year.—Leave was given to bring in the Bill.Mr. O'Connell
367366 said, it would be very great presumption in so humble an individual as himself to differ on a legal subject with the hon. and learned Gentleman. In the Bill alluded to, however, he conceived that a slight mistake had been made which would require amendment, notwithstanding the general propriety of the measure, which he was quite ready to admit. The existing system was indeed one which much needed reformation, and he would be the last to oppose the progress of what must prove in the main an improvement; he therefore concurred entirely with the honourable and learned Gentleman, that the Law, as it was now administered in Equity, upon the subject of Illusory Appointments in particular, absolutely required amendment. There was, in fact, no rule in Equity, but a question in Equity, as to the Appointment, or as it might be more truly and conveniently described, the apportionment of property. In every case of distribution of this particular kind, the Court entered upon the inquiry with a view to see whether a substantive share had or had not been given to the various objects of the power of appointment. This raised a question, but gave no rule whatever. The object of this Bill was to correct that evil which was most enormous, and which was made more enormous, inasmuch as the Equity Judges differ-
367366Mr. O'Connell
332331ex post facto330329 presented a petition from several individuals, praying for such a Reform in the Law as would make it what it was not at present—cheap, intelligible, and expeditious. The petition also prayed the House to call upon intelligent persons, to draw up draughts of an "all-comprehensive code of law" for this country. He would read some extracts from it, because the subject was of great importance, and because he might hereafter call further attention to it. The petitioners said, that in so far as the respective consciences of the petitioners will allow, they entertain the sincerest disposition to conform themselves in all things to the good pleasure of those who are set in authority over them; that when by any of them a wish is expressed to know what that pleasure is, he is bid to look to the law of the Land; that when a
332331ex post facto330329Mr. O'Connell
 moved for Returns of the number of Stamps issued to each Newspaper in Ireland for one year, ending 5th January, 1830; and of the sums paid to Newspapers in Ireland, from 5th Jan. 1829 to 5th Jan. 1830, for printing Proclamations; distinguishing the sums paid to each Newspaper by title, and place of publication." Ordered.Mr. O'Connell
laughter340 said, he could not content himself with giving a silent vote on this occasion. Being himself a Radical Reformer, and desiring a complete and thorough Reform in every thing corrupt in the country, he was anxious to make an example in every particular case of corruption that came within the general rule. He thought an hon. Member was mistaken when he stated that the House was now called upon to act in a judicial capacity, and decide whether the electors of East Retford had been guilty of bribery and corruption, and that the fact was not proved against the borough on the occasion of the last election. If the fact were not proved, then certainly the hon. Gentleman ought to oppose the bill of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire, which proceeded on the supposition that bribery and corruption existed. The hon. Gent. argued that bribery was not proved. He (Mr. O'Connell) had read the evidence in the case, and was convinced that East Retford continued a sink of bribery and corruption up to the present moment. It was quite true that the existence of bribery, on a recent occasion had not been proved, because the time of payment had not arrived; the bribes were due, but had not been paid. The voters sent Members into the House, and gave credit for the bribes, putting faith in the parties for the forty guineas a-piece. The noble Lord (Howick) seemed to think that as all the voters of East Retford had not been proved guilty, all should not be punished; and argued, that though there might be a guilty majority, yet there was an innocent minority, whom it would be wrong to visit with punishment for the faults of others. But let it be recollected that boroughs acted by majorities—that majorities, and not minorities, sent Members to Parliament; so that, supposing a few voters to be free from corruption, yet was the borough corrupt for all purposes of representation; consequently, the majority ought to be punished, and the borough prevented from ever again sending Members to that House. His opinion was, that the right of representation ought not to belong to any pri-
laughter340Mr. O'Connell
368 replied.—He could not accede to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Clare. He could not consent to take away from the father his legitimate and reasonable power of apportioning to his children as he might think proper, acting on the impulse of his affections and the dictates of his judgment. It was for this very reason that he admired the excellence of the English Law, although the hon. and learned Gentleman would have him depart from it to follow the questionable example of France. His Bill would trench neither on the rights of parents nor children. Why ought they to divest a father of so important a right, the exercise of which might prove so serviceable in the exigencies of his family? The French Law gave the father the smallest quantity of power over his own property; but he thought such a system ought not to be introduced here. If bargains of the nature described were at any time made, a Court of Equity, on being applied to, would immediately set them aside for the benefit of the children. The rule he should recommend would break in upon nothing—it would work no mischief, but must amend many real practical tangible grievances, which could not be terminated too soon. The bill now proposed would leave any one at full liberty to declare the portions into which he wished his property to be divided, and he believed it would be found to operate as a general benefit, It would not only be a great
368The Solicitor General
369 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the Payment of Debts out of Real Estates. A few words would suffice to explain its object. He proposed to extend to Covenants the Act of William and Mary, which at present only related to Bonds; for, by the Statute of William, the Bond Debts of an Estate, even in the case of the heir being an infant, were recoverable in Equity, but not Covenants, which were held liable in Common Law. He proposed to extend the power of the Courts of Equity to Covenants, and to enable them to give a title to the estates of the infant which were sold under their jurisdiction. At present, by a strange anomaly, the Court of Chancery possessed and exercised the power of selling the infant's estate, but could not give a title; so that a purchaser was obliged to wait till the infant became twenty-one years of age. He proposed to remedy that defect, and also to grant the Court of Chancery the power of giving a title in the case of devised property. The next object on which he begged leave to say he had expended many weeks' consideration was, to extend the 6th of his present Majesty, which was itself an extension of the Statute of Anne, so as to make the contracts of heirs liable out of their real estates, and to invest the Court of Chancery with the power of giving a title. The giving the Great Seal the power of granting a title, in cases of sales effected under its jurisdiction, of the property of infants, femes covert and lunatics, was the next object of his Bill. He also proposed to give it the same power in the cases of infant and lunatic trustees and mortgagees. At present lunatics were liable for all contracts entered into when in a state of
369The Solicitor General
374shouldwouldcheers, and cries of order, order, order373372llll371370ad rem,personam, moved for leave to bring in a Bill, the object of which was, to amend the Law relating to Process of Contempt, and Commitments for Contempt, by Courts of Equity. The House would be aware that Courts of Equity acted ad 374shouldwouldcheers, and cries of order, order, order373372llll371370ad rem,personam,The Solicitor General
365lll364 said, he rose for the purpose of introducing to the notice of the House his amendments of the law relating to certain matters which had been the subject of particular decisions in the Court of Chancery. It was his intention to introduce five different Bills to alter the law which those decisions had established. The first Bill related to Illusory Appointments. The law of England was favourable to every latitude in the disposition of property. To that liberal principle was owing the introduction of powers of appointment; thus, for instance, if a father were desirous of reserving to himself on his son's marriage a power of appointment, he might do so. There were two sorts of powers of this kind in the law. The one was an exclusive power, by which the father had the power to give the property
365lll364The Solicitor General (Sir E. B. Sugden)
377 said, he could not but feel the praises of the hon. Member for Montrose as most painful, seeing that they were only given to him in the form of censures pronounced upon the conduct of his predecessors. It was by no means,
377The Solicitor-General
 said, he should be extremely sorry to damp the laudable efforts of any public functionary, but he would put it to him whether the conduct of his predecessors, if like his, would not have led to similar results?Mr. Hume
376375 said, he was far from undervaluing the labours of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, on the contrary, he appreciated them highly; but he must be allowed to say that many of the returns upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman had founded his observations were laid upon the table of that House at his (Mr. H.'s) instance. Neither could he
376375Mr. Hume
 supported the Amendment, and hoped that the wholesome practice which prevailed a few years ago of never voting a shilling of the public money after twelve o'clock, would be renewed. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would postpone his Motion and bring it on at an earlier period of the evening.Mr. Hume
 afterwards urged the expediency of bringing on public business at an earlier period of the evening.Mr. Hume
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whether any order had been sent out by his Majesty's Government for the recall of Sir John Peter Grant from his situation of Judge in the Supreme Court of Bombay?Dr. Phillimore
359 in explanation, begged to observe that his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) had mistaken his argument about the appointment of Sir J. Scarlett as Attorney-General. What he said was, that seeing a Tory Ministry acting on Whig principles, he thought they would not object to the course which the hon. Member (Mr. Tennyson) had proposed. As to the objection which his right hon. friend
359Mr. Huskisson
 begged to repeat, that, considering this Administration to be a Tory Government, supported by Whig principles, he had contended they might have adopted this one Whig principle with the rest.Mr. Huskisson
348hear, and a laughhear, and laughterlaughter347346345hear344343342 said, he could not give a silent vote on this question. Still, recollecting that only a few months had passed since, at an advanced period of the last Session of Parliament, he had had an opportunity of stating fully (as he did) his views of the subject now under consideration, he did not think it necessary to go again over the ground which he had then traversed. But he must be allowed to say, that every tiling which had occurred within the last few months—every thing which was now passing—every thing in the condition of the country, which even those who ran could read—every thing that occurred in every quarter—pointed out to him as it did to every dispassionate observer, the great and increasing importance and a thorough conviction of the necessity of dealing with a corrupt and rotten borough, like East. Retford, not by extending the franchise to the adjoining hundred of Bassetlaw, the inhabitants of which had already votes for Nottinghamshire, but by disfranchising it altogether, and transferring the elective privilege to the great and populous town of Birmingham, which was altogether unrepresented. He felt the increasing and urgent importance of this in reference to the general question of Reform; and he was not afraid to avow his feeling, as he row did, that it was of the utmost importance we should deal with the matter under consideration so as best to guard ourselves against the growing danger of sweeping Reform on principles too abstract and general. He avowed that to be his feeling, and called upon others who thought with him upon the subject to take up this defensive position against the dangers which pressed upon us from every quarter. If by the influence of his Majesty's Government in this House he should be driven from the position which he now occupied,—if the present proposition for a moderate and
348hear, and a laughhear, and laughterlaughter347346345hear344343342Mr. Huskisson
334 said, that Acts of Parliament, by which smugglers were permitted to serve on board of his Majesty's ships in lieu of being imprisoned for the pecuniary-penalties to which they had rendered themselves liable by transgressing the law, had warranted the term of Millar's service; and he must contend, from a review of these Acts, that there was not one of them which limited the time of service to five years. The first question, therefore, to be considered in Millar's case was this—had he a right to claim his discharge at the end of five years? And then, supposing for the sake of argument, that he had such right, was he, having been offered full pay on board, authorized to disobey the orders of his commanding officer? He (Sir G. Clerk) contended that on both those points the decision must be clearly against Millar.
334Sir G. Clerk
 allowed that he thought the Motion might be acceded to; for it was merely that some supply should be granted to his Majesty. If any hon. Member thought that no supply whatever should be granted, then an Amendment, such as that proposed by the hon. Alderman, was justifiable. Conceiving, however, that such was not the hon. Alderman's wish, though he felt the indispensable necessity of a great reduction of taxation, he implored the hon. Alderman not to persevere in an Amendment which would prevent the production of those estimates, which alone would give the means of ascertaining what reduction might be made.Lord Althorp
 said, that when in former Sessions his hon. friend the Member for Montrose had addressed the House upon the abuses of the Court of Chancery, he had naturally and justly expressed his disapprobation of the conduct of those by whom the abuses in that Court were allowed to exist; and it was perfectly natural and just that when complaints of that nature were at length rendered groundless by the conduct of public officers, that the same hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montrose, should contrast the conduct of the present law officers of the Crown with that of their predecessors.Lord Althorp
, on the question being put, that the Bill be now brought in, said, it was his opinion that it was extremely unfair to fasten on one single case of political delinquency, like that of East Retford, while it was so notorious that the borough thus stigmatized formed only a component part of a widely prevailing system, deserving of reprobation and reform. He would have punishment inflicted indiscriminately on all culprits of every class, high or low, where soever they might be found. It was an incontrovertible fact, that undue influence, whether in the shape of money or otherwise, had been long exercised in every election throughout the United Kingdom. To cause this undoubted truth to be openly declared by the House of Commons was the object of his resolution. It had been already fully admitted by a noble Lord who filled, a prominent part in the administration several years ago (Lord Castlereagh), and the correctness of the statement was too generally established to be questioned from that day to the present. It was suggested by aright hon. Gentleman opposite, that he ought to be prepared to bring in a bill for the prevention of bribery, grounded on his proposed resolution. Now the course which he intended to adopt was this:—after the passing of the declaratory resolution, he might move for the appointment of a Committee, which Committee should be empowered to draw up a scheme for Parliamentary Reform. But were he presented with the alternative of stopping short in his career, or supporting the hon. Member for Hertfordshire, he would not hesitate a moment in his choice. It was his determination to oppose that hon. Gentleman, because he thought his bill an imposition on the country. He considered it a mere mockery to disfranchise a single borough in the existing circumstances of the country, when no person was blind to the means by which numbers procured seats in that Mouse. Perhaps it might be said that by opposing this bill he was virtually encouraging bribery. In reply, however, he could only say, that while abuse at its full growth walked boldly through the land, he would never be brought, at sight of a solitary instance of corruption, to feign a horror and indignation which he did not feel.Lord Howick
339338ex post facto337 said, in consequence of this question having been introduced so soon, he was precluded from making the motion of which he had given notice. He meant, however, to vote for the proposition of the hon. Member for Bletchingley; and if it were not carried, it would then be open to him to move his own resolution as an amendment to the original motion. The hon. Member for Hertfordshire had moved for leave to bring in a bill to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Borough of East Retford; but the motion which he had meant to propose, if he had come down in time, would go to declare, "that the abuses which were alleged to exist in East Retford, were not confined to that town, but were notorious in many cities and boroughs in the United Kingdom." Such was his opinion; and therefore he thought it was much better to propose a general remedy for a general evil, instead of applying particular remedies to particular places—a course which experience showed did not serve any good purpose, and was positively bad in practice. He originally voted for the motion to disfranchise this borough, not to punish the electors for the crime laid, to
339338ex post facto337Viscount Howick
 hoped if it were thought to be impracticable to come to a decision this session, it would be considered best to let the question fall to the ground, and issue new writs for East Retford.Mr. Lumley
328 presented a petition from the Burgesses of East Retford, praying for new writs for the election of two Members for that Borough to be issued forthwith.328Mr. S. Lumley
 brought in a Bill to amend the laws regulating Illusory Appointments,—also one to alter and amend the laws respecting Arrests for Contempt; a Bill for the amendment of the Conveyancing Laws: for consolidating and amending the laws respecting Infants and Lunatics; and for consolidating and amending the laws respecting Real Estates,—which were read a first time.The Solicitor-General
 presented a petition from the Chamber of Commerce, and signed by a great number of Merchants and Manufacturers of Manchester, praying for a modification in the Charter of the East India Company.Mr. Stanley
430 presented a petition from the Merchants, Tradesmen, and Inhabitants of Lincoln, complaining of the general Distress of the Country, and praying the House not to grant further supplies until the state of the Country should be taken into consideration, and measures adopted
430Colonel Sibthorpe
 expressed his intention of moving on a future day for granting greater facilities to those persons who attended the House for the purpose of reporting its proceedings. The accurate reporting of the Debates was of great consequence to the country, especially at the present time; and he should hereafter name a day on which he would bring that subject forward.Colonel Sibthorpe
 gave notice that he would move, on Thursday, the 18th of March next, for leave to bring in a bill for amending and consolidating the Laws relating to Forgery.Mr. Secretary Peel
l.1.435 said, he thought that if the salaries of public offices were reduced to the standard of 1792, it was a fair proposition to have the rents lowered by the same measure. Let the taxes be reduced to the same standard, and he would go
l.1.435Mr. F. Palmer
 said, it ought to be remembered, that there were many hard landlords as well as good and benevolent ones, but the former must give way, as the land would, after all, only fetch its value in the market.Mr. N. Calvert
 moved the order of the day for receiving the Report. On the Motion being put, that a Supply be granted to his Majesty,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
coughing, and considerable interruption.438calls of "Question.437 said, he could not help taking the liberty of giving his opinion on the present most unprecedented crisis of the country's affairs. He did not offer himself to the notice of the House for his personal gratification; but, as it was the duty of every Member, in the present state of the country, to see whether any new measures might be elicited for its benefit, and to deliver his opinions, he would speak them because his present observations would save him the trouble of repeating them on future occasions. The question relative to the country embraced two considerations—those of our foreign relations, and the internal condition of the Empire. On the former his general habits would not allow him to speak; but he felt grateful to Ministers, and he begged to tender them his personal gratitude, for their leaving the country in a state of profound tranquillity, both as regarded Portugal, and more particularly that untoward or unfortunate affair of Navarino. On this point he would conclude by saying that this country, more than any other in Europe, was interested in the tranquillity of the new States of the southern hemisphere. And he thought that England and the other Powers ought to interfere to prevent
coughing, and considerable interruption.438calls of "Question.437Mr. Callagan
450s.s.449l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.l.l.448s.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.447l.l.l.l.446445ex officiocheers"Hic locus est, partes ubi se via findit in ambas."d.s."Tis your's to judge how wide the limits stand Between a splendid and a happy land."Where wealth accumulates and men decay.""Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,444443l.,l.l.l.s.l.442l.l.,Oh miseras hominum mentes! Oh pectora cæca!s.441d.s.1.s.l.440per saltumhear.439 then rose and said, he could not but observe that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had taken a very extraordinary course, as he argued in support of his (Sir J. Graham's) motion without waiting to hear it. However, from this he entertained every hope that the hon. Gentleman would vote for the resolution with which he meant to conclude, because he imagined that it would come up to the hon. Gentleman's ideas, both as to reduction of expenditure, and taxation. He never rose in the House without embarrassment, and imperfect recovery from recent illness aggravated that feeling on the present occasion. The task he was about to undertake was an ungracious one, for though all liked economy and reform in the abstract, they very seldom relished it when it came to be acted upon with respect to themselves. He felt this, but his sympathies were not confined to those who derived their incomes from the public purse—his compassion was rather directed to those from whom the taxes were drawn, and he could not turn a deaf ear to the distresses of the country. That distress was general, for notwithstanding that the Speech from the Throne said that distress was confined merely to some parts of the country, yet the whole efforts of Ministers to fritter down our misfortunes have produced nothing but the greatest possible disappointment, and changing hope into despair, had gone nearly
450s.s.449l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.l.l.448s.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.447l.l.l.l.446445ex officiocheers"Hic locus est, partes ubi se via findit in ambas."d.s."Tis your's to judge how wide the limits stand Between a splendid and a happy land."Where wealth accumulates and men decay.""Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,444443l.,l.l.l.s.l.442l.l.,Oh miseras hominum mentes! Oh pectora cæca!s.441d.s.1.s.l.440per saltumhear.439Sir James Graham
434 observed, he must, in justice to the meeting of yesterday, state that not one word of the conversation repeated by the hon. Member for Colchester fell from any body but himself. Indeed, the hon. Gentleman had given the House a very temperate version of what he did say. At the meeting he spoke of the landlords as having flinty hearts—as mere voluptuaries—as men rolling in luxury, and careless about the sufferings of those around them. It was because these sentiments were listened to with approbation at the meeting, that be wished to hold
434Mr. Lennard
l.l. apologized for interrupting the hon. Member, and observed that, in speaking of the Admiralty, he had adverted solely to the salary of the First Lord of the Admiralty, which in 1797 was 3,000l.l.Sir James Graham
The conclusion of this speech was delivered in an expressively animated manner: and was received with loud cheers.475474473472471470469 said, I do not conceive that
The conclusion of this speech was delivered in an expressively animated manner: and was received with loud cheers.475474473472471470469Mr. Peel
476 said, that he must declare, whatever other resolutions were adhered to, that the right hon. Gentleman had now abandoned the grounds upon which he brought in his Bill of 1819. On another occasion he doubted not that he should be able to convince the right hon. Gentleman of the real character and tendency of that Bill, and to make him sensible that there was no principle of national faith which called for the introduction of the metallic standard and the maintenance of salaries at the rate to which they were raised during a depreciated paper currency. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman—supposing that Bill had never been passed—on what scale would the salaries of the servants of the Crown be at present? They would, according to the right hon. Gentleman's own admission, be twenty-five per cent lower than they are, and the public burthens would of course be lessened in the same degree. He did not inquire at present whether the public servants were overpaid or not; the only question was, whether the Bill of 1819 was necessary to vindicate the national honour. He could not entertain the same confidence which Ministers professed they felt in the permanent nature and unchangeable character of their standard, when he found that they were, notwithstanding the admitted alteration of value
476Mr. Attwood
l.477 in explanation, begged to say that an inference had been attempted to be drawn from his declining to enter into details, which was totally unfair—namely, that he had admitted that an alteration had taken place generally, about the period of 1819, to the amount of 25 per cent, or upwards. He begged to say that he never had, either in words, or tacitly, made any such admission, and he was satisfied, neither the hon. Member who last spoke, nor any other who concurred in opinion with that hon. Member, could prove that any such depression then took place. Whilst thus availing himself of the privilege of explaining, he would take this opportunity of saying that he anticipated great advantages from the improvement of the banking system,
l.477Mr. Secretary Peel,
478 in reply, observed that he never for a moment could have argued in favour of, or been solicitous for, an inconvertible paper currency. The result of resorting to such an expedient would possibly, if not unavoidably, be an issue of assignats. In his mind the decision of 1819, as to the resumption Of a gold standard, was injudicious, and unsuited to the condition of this country. It appeared as if the article of gold had a tendency to become scarcer, while silver had a contrary tendency. Our standard being gold rendered debts more onerous; and, as this country owed more debt than any other, it was worse calculated than any other for a gold standard. At a proper period, he pledged himself to prove that it would be eminently beneficial to the nation to introduce a different standard—namely, that of silver, which, having a tendency to become abundant, would render the consequences of our past engagements, and the debt, less onerous. He must disclaim having any objects of his own to carry in the proposition he now submitted, or in the opposition he sometimes found it his duty to give to men in power. His ambition was fully satisfied in representing a large and populous county of England. Nor was it true that he was desirous to upset the Duke of Wellington's government. He believed the Duke was, both on account of his profound judgment, and the vigour of his measures, the fittest man in the country to hold the helm of affairs; and he thought that, after the noble Duke had well weighed the temper of the House, his conduct could not fail to be influenced by the very general opinion prevalent among all ranks in favour of a change in the standard. If it should so happen that Members were sent back to their constituents, he believed they would find that out of doors the popular opinion ran very strong in favour of an issue of small notes. The sentiments of his constituents he had reason to believe, were
478Sir James Graham,
 resolutions were afterwards adopted, and the Committee of Supply appointed for Monday.Mr. G. Dawson's
467 said, he could not agree with some hon. Members, that the course pursued by Ministers was that which was consistent with their duty, as responsible servants of the Crown. He thought they were very ill-advised in describing the distress in the qualified manner they had done. Instead of blinking the question, they ought, to have come down to the House, and acknowledged honestly the extent of the evil, and proposed effectual measures of relief. He thought it highly important at the present crisis that a country party should exist in that House; but, in saying that, he would not be understood as wishing to separate the landed interest from the manufacturing and commercial interests. He maintained the same sentiments on that point which he had ever professed—namely, that no one class could flourish unless the other classes were prosperous. But at present all classes laboured
467Mr. W. Duncombe
 begged not to be understood as approving of what had been said about the severe exactions of the landlords, because he had given a cheer to one of the observations of the hon. Member for Colchester.Mr. Poulett Thomson
hears.s.s.s.s.s.l. begged in reply to say, that as the hon. Member for Colchester (Mr. Harvey) was so personal to him and to his tenants, he hoped the House would permit him to say a few words in explanation. In the first place he must declare that he had not on his land an arrear of 100hears.s.s.s.s.s.l.Mr. Western
 then presented another petition, signed by eight hundred or nine hundred respectable Gentlemen, Merchants, and Traders, in the town and vicinity of Chelmsford, the object of which was to state to the House that distress prevailed in every class of society as much as it did among the agricultural. It stated that the evils of the country were growing with frightful rapidity to a head, and they entreated the House to take steps to arrest them, which alone could be done by repealing the Bill of 1819, which, by altering the currency, tended mainly to inflict them. He also presented a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the parish of Tellingham, in Essex, in which one farm of the best land was abandoned by the tenant, the charges on it being greater than the produce.—Petitions ordered to be printed.Mr. Western
431 rose to present a petition from Capel Cure, Sheriff, on behalf of a meeting of Freeholders of the county of Essex, adopted at a general meeting held on the preceding day relative to the distressed state of the country, and observed that the petition was not the one he had supported at the meeting, and that it contained, in some parts of it, sentiments to which he strongly objected; yet he felt it his duty to present it. It was signed by the High Sheriff of the county, in accordance with a resolution passed at the meeting, but he (Mr. Western) would much rather it had borne the signatures of those freeholders whose sentiments it purported to express. He fully felt for the distress—the general public distress—prevailing throughout the
431Mr. Western
433l.hear, hear432 said, he lamented to observe, that the hon. Member for Essex seemed to have a lively recollection of the defeat which his propositions experienced the day before at the meeting of the freeholders of his own county. The hon. Gentleman certainly did the meeting justice in one respect, though he withheld it in another—he impeached its prudence while he extolled its patience. Now he (Mr. Harvey) understood that these virtues were always co-existent. It would be too much to expect from the hon. Gentleman an eulogy on the prudence of a meeting which rejected his petition, and adopted one diametrically opposed to it; but it was creditable to his candour to admit the patience which was shown by the freeholders in listening to his oft-repeated arguments on the currency. The truth was, that never was there a more patient, prudent, or deliberative meeting. It heard the different speakers with attention, and decided from reflection. It bore not the tone of party about it, and it rejected all factious feelings. It admitted that distress existed, but it denied its universality; and, while every man was persuaded that the public suffering was increasing, and would, if not checked, become overwhelming, he appeared convinced that it was not yet too late, and that effectual measures would ensure relief. The meeting did not concede every thing to Parliament, but it stated that much could be done out of doors, and it
433l.hear, hear432Mr. D. W. Harvey
l.l., said, that the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. G. Dawson) could not contradict the statement which he (Mr. O'Connell) had made on a former night. The hon. Member had given as his authority Mr. Latouche, who, on his return to Dublin from London, stated, at a meeting of the Society for the Improvement of Ireland, that the people of Ireland were not suffering in the same degree as the people of England; and, when contradicted upon this fact, he replied that the increase of the Excise tended to establish it beyond all doubt. He (Mr. O'C.) then told him that his argument was founded on the resource of the desperate, namely, on the drinking of spirits, the increase of which could never be considered as a proof of national prosperity. His professional duties placed him in constant communication with merchants and others who were acquiring estates in Ireland, and from whom, and other clients, he had ample opportunities of obtaining information as to the real state of things in that country. To show to what extent distress prevailed there, he needed only say that one gentleman, who had a rent-roll of 4,000l.l.,Mr. O'Connell
 gave notice of his intention to move, on the 17th inst., for leave to bring in a Bill for amending the Vestry Act.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition from Tunstead, in Norfolk, praying for a revision of the Corn Laws, and against the continuation of the Malt and Beer Duties.Mr. E. Wodehouse
 explained. He was afraid that some expressions painful to the feelings of his hon. friend might perhaps have escaped him; he was most anxious to take the earliest opportunity of stating that, neither remotely nor otherwise, had he the slightest intention of accusing him of making any statement which he did not believe to be grounded on fact. He had, however, felt some surprise, after the conversation which he and his hon. friend had had upon the subject, that his hon. friend appeared to differ from him so materially, taking a view of the question which he (Mr. Dawson) could not admit. There was not one man in that House, on either side, of whom he was less disposed to say any thing unkind than of his hon. friend. He had long known him, and no one could more admire his talents and his merits.Mr. G. Dawson
459"That it is the opinion of this House, that, in all the Establishments of the Country, Civil and Military, every saving ought to be made which can be effected without the violation of existing engage-
459"That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that his Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that there be laid before this House an Account of the progress made in such inquiry, and of the measures adopted in consequence thereof."That his Majesty was graciously pleased to assure this House, in reply to an Address of this House of the 27th June 1821 (that his Majesty would give directions for a minute inquiry into the several departments of the Civil Government, as well with a view to reducing the number of the persons employed in those departments, which from the great increase of business was augmented during the late War, as with reference to the increased salaries granted to individuals since the year 1797, either in consideration of the additional labour thrown upon them during that period, or the diminished value of money), that his Majesty would give directions as desired by the said Address.458457renewed cries of No, no, no, from the Oppositiond.d.No, no, from the Oppositiond.d.l.l.456l.l.l.l.l.455l.l.,l,l.l.l.l.l,l,l.l.454hear, hearl.l.l.l.l.l.,maximuml.,minimuml.maximuml.,minimum453loud cries of No, no, from the Oppositionl.l.452l.l.l.No, no.451 said, though he admired the talents, ability, and eloquence displayed by the hon. Baronet, it was not his intention to follow him through the various topics on which he had been pleased to dwell. He would confine himself strictly to the limits which the duty of his office imposed. Instead of following the hon. Baronet, therefore, through those various subjects in a speech, which were, in fact, a condensation of all the topics which had been discussed last Session, he would address himself simply to that object which he had no doubt the hon. Baronet was most anxious to attain, although he had made such slight mention of it. He did not take the same view of the salaries of
459"That it is the opinion of this House, that, in all the Establishments of the Country, Civil and Military, every saving ought to be made which can be effected without the violation of existing engage-
459"That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that his Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that there be laid before this House an Account of the progress made in such inquiry, and of the measures adopted in consequence thereof."That his Majesty was graciously pleased to assure this House, in reply to an Address of this House of the 27th June 1821 (that his Majesty would give directions for a minute inquiry into the several departments of the Civil Government, as well with a view to reducing the number of the persons employed in those departments, which from the great increase of business was augmented during the late War, as with reference to the increased salaries granted to individuals since the year 1797, either in consideration of the additional labour thrown upon them during that period, or the diminished value of money), that his Majesty would give directions as desired by the said Address.458457renewed cries of No, no, no, from the Oppositiond.d.No, no, from the Oppositiond.d.l.l.456l.l.l.l.l.455l.l.,l,l.l.l.l.l,l,l.l.454hear, hearl.l.l.l.l.l.,maximuml.,minimuml.maximuml.,minimum453loud cries of No, no, from the Oppositionl.l.452l.l.l.No, no.451Mr. G. Dawson
l. said, he rose to mention some facts relative to the department to which he belonged. In 1797 the salaries of the Admiralty Officers were 14,140l.Mr. Croker
l.l.l.l.460l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. begged his pardon. The hon. Baronet had assumed that the gross amount of salaries of persons employed in the Civil Service was, in 1797, 1,374,000l.l.l.l.460l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Croker
 said, he could bear testimony that the petition expressed the feelings of a large majority of the very respectable inhabitants of Lincoln, and he fully concurred in the prayer of the petition.—Ordered to be printed.Mr. Fazakerley
 said, he thought that the hon. Member for Colchester had been unfairly dealt with. He proposed an alteration of the present system of taxation, which was better than a system which oppressed only particular interests, and he looked for relief to those sources where, in his opinion, it could be best afforded. Now, he appealed to the House, whether it would not be wise to abolish tithes altogether, and pay the Clergy moderate stipends, according to their duties. The petition said no more, and if his hon. friend had declared that some Clergymen were voluptuaries, and lived a life of pleasure, it was no more than a man might be induced to do who had twenty thousand a-year. The error lay in the enormity of the payment. It was not fit that the minister of a religion which preached poverty and temperance should receive such an income; and there was no duty which he performed for which it could be claimed as a compensation. The petition fairly went to the question without any consideration for particular interests. For instance, by the operation of the law the agriculturists had a monopoly of corn. Would they, when they wished to bring every thing down to the standard of 1797, give up that monopoly? That was the proper way to treat the subject, and the petition did no more. He considered it to be a very fair one, and he hoped to see a similar one from every county in England.Mr. Hume
l.466l.l.l.l.465 said, he should prefer the Motion of the Secretary to the Trea-
l.466l.l.l.l.465Mr. Hume
laughterl.l.l.468 said, that in voting as he had done, in favour of the Address, he wished to protest against being understood to doubt the extent of distress in the country, or to deny that it was severely felt. For himself, he had no connection with Ministers; and, at his time of life, after having been for four or five and forty years in that House, he wished for nothing but happiness;—he meant the happiness of the people and the prosperity of the country. He considered it his duty to weigh the merits of his Majesty's Ministers, and of those who con tended with them. These Gentlemen said, that they wished for economy and retrenchment. Now on that point he wished to try them fairly. What, he would ask, was the condition of Ministers? Were they the authors of the mischief? Were they the promoters of the French war, which was, in fact, the source of all the evil? He was one of those who voted during Mr. Pitt's Administration, on the question of the French War, and he had foretold the calamities which had since befallen the country from that cause. He was not attached to any party in that House. He was an independent man, but was it to be expected that he should support those who wished to get into power by proclaiming the grievances of the country? He would not support Ultra Whigs or Ultra Tories. His Majesty's Ministers had, in his opinion, done great things for the nation. They had passed two great measures, the most important of which was that of Catholic Emancipation. He would, therefore, trust to them to do what was necessary and beneficial for the country. He
laughterl.l.l.468Mr. M. A. Taylor
462461 said, he must advert to what had fallen from the hon. Secretary (Mr. G. Dawson). If he (Mr. Spring Rice) were capable of dealing with the House in the manner represented by his hon. friend, the Secretary to the Treasury, he should be wholly unworthy, not only of presenting him self there, but any where else. His hon. friend had told the House that he (Mr. Spring Rice) had stated in a private communication, that distress did not exist in Ireland, while his hon. friend would now represent him as acting in subserviency to some person or persons, and asserting that distress did exist there. He could only say that never was any representation more unjust or unfounded. Not only had his hon. friend totally misrepresented him, but he appeared to be driven to the necessity of inventing facts to sustain the course of argument he had pursued. He (Mr. Spring Rice) had not implicitly adopted the opinions of the hon. Member for Clare nor of the right hon. Member for Kerry. On the contrary, he had stated most distinctly that he differed from them both. While he had stated that there was, generally, less distress in Ireland than in England, he had stated at the same time that the great interests
462461Mr. Spring Rice
 expressed himself quite satisfied with this explanation; but he must say, at the same time, that, if he had not felt strongly on such an occasion, he should have been unworthy of appearing either in that House or elsewhere.Mr. Spring Rice
463 considered that the Ministers of the Crown were still more urgently called upon than the hon. Member for Cumberland to come forward, on an occasion like the present, and to propose some practical measure of relief. It was, however, most satisfactory to know that the Representatives of the people were not insensible to the distress which prevailed. He found that, since the year 1797, judicial salaries had increased by at least 100 per cent; and his only object
463Sir George Warrender
 said, he was apprehensive that this resolution, if adopted, would not have the effect of relieving the great distress under which the country now laboured. The measure adopted in 1826 had had, as he had then foretold it would have, a most prejudicial effect on all the great interests of the country; and they all, from that period to the present, had continued to decline. He considered the whole of the distress to have been caused by the measures relative to the currency.Sir John Wrottesley
 presented a petition from the Merchants, Shipowners, and other persons interested in the trade of Plymouth, praying that no exclusive privileges should be granted on the expiration of the Company's Charter.Sir T. Martin
 said, he must confess his great surprise to hear the calumnies which prevailed in some of the publications of the day against the landlords of England, uttered in that House. He listened with indignation to those imputations on the whole body of the landed interest. He could not with patience hear it declared that the landlords exacted from the tenantry more than the value of the soil. He declared that such a charge was totally unfounded, and while he regretted that any man could say so, he was still more surprised to find the observation cheered by hon. Gentlemen who were the advocates of political economy. Those Gentlemen knew better than that rents were regulated by the cupidity of landlords; and it was not from ignorance of the subject that they denied, by their cheer, that land, like every thing else, was a fair subject of competition. He knew that the landlords were not that grasping and avaricious body which they were charged with being; and he could only state that, though distress existed largely in that part of the country with which he was connected, a single farm never came out of lease without becoming the subject of an active competition at an advanced rent.Lord Howick
 briefly stated, that he was apprehensive that a standard of gold with a paper circulation was now ill adapted to effect the objects meditated.Mr. Saville Lumley
hear464 said, the Motion of his hon. friend, the Member for Cumberland (Sir J. Graham) would at any time have commanded the attention and support of the advocates of economy; but when it came before them coupled with complaints of the overwhelming distress of every class in the country, then, indeed, it must prove irresistible. Whether, however, they adopted the Motion of the hon. Baronet, or were content with the Resolutions intended to be proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury, it was plain that the House was about to give a new pledge to the country of its determination to prosecute a system of retrenchment and reformation in every branch of the public expenditure. Some hon. Members recommended as a remedy for the distress, that the House
hear464Lord Morpeth
 moved "That the order of the day, for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider of the Supply, be now read."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
506No, no.lll505l504ll503llllll502501500 said, he addressed the House on the present occasion, under feelings of considerable embarrassment, not only from the difficulty of the task of following the hon. Member for Aberdeen (Mr. Hume) through his various and complex statements, but from a conviction of the almost impossibility of refixing the attention of hon. Members to the question really at issue when they had been so long pre-occupied by the hon. Member. The hon. Member had added to his difficulties by not adopting a new line of proceeding from that usually followed by him: that is, by not refraining from his usual minute investigation of the details of the various items of the revenue and expenditure of the country,—items, a due discussion of which would require each a separate evening, and more time and attention than the House could bestow without a total neglect of its other duties. Nor was the variety of the hon. Member's statements their only objectionable feature— the length of time embraced by the hon. Member's inquiry added to the task of replying to them—a period extending from 1792 to the present year. The hon. Member had thought proper to
506No, no.lll505l504ll503llllll502501500The Chancellor of the Exchequer
510sss509l508507 was of opinion, that the right hon. Gentleman had over-stated the proposition of his hon. friend the Member for Montrose. He had not contended that they should forthwith—namely, tomorrow for example—proceed to repeal taxes to the amount named; nothing, he was sure, could be further from his intentions—nothing of which the House would be less likely to accuse him—no; his object was, that as soon as possible the House should proceed to fix some period from which the repeal of those taxes might commence. He (Mr. M.) begged to call the attention of the House to the real question before them; the country was in distress, that was not to be doubted, and his hon. friend proposed that there should be a reduction of eight, or six, or four, or two millions: he demanded that there should be some great reduction, and he thought that in the name of the country he had a right to demand that a great reduction should take place. His motion, he thought, was entitled to the support of the House; for though the speech of the Mover embraced a wide field, and though there might be much in it from which many Members would dissent, yet that did not affect the merits of the Motion, standing as it did upon the strongest grounds. Doubtless many of the topics to which his hon. friend had adverted were such as had much better be referred to a Committee, but it would be in vain that the hon. Member should seek to have a Committee to which to refer them. When the Finance Committee was appointed, the right hon. Secretary eulogised it in the highest terms; but the moment it began to do any good, the Government turned round upon it and put an end to its labours, and by that act did one of the greatest injuries to the country which it ever sustained. It was perfectly certain that the various details of the public expenditure could never be advantageously discussed in that House—a Committee was the only place in which the charges
510sss509l508507Mr. Maberly
526525524523"No, No," from Sir F. Burden. expressed his satisfaction at having on that occasion to vote with the hon. Baronet, the Member for Westminster [526525524523"No, No," from Sir F. Burden.Mr. Secretary Peel
 replied, that the amount would be stated in the ordinary course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was anxious that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should state the amount of the Estimates at once.Mr. Maberly
528, said, that when the subject was before the
528The Chancellor of the Exchequer
517—"æternum servans sub pectore vulnus."516515514 said, he felt himself called on, whatever might be the consequence, and however much he might differ from those hon. Gentlemen he saw around him, and whose opinions he respected, to state boldly and conscientiously that he agreed most fully with the hon. Member for Essex in all he had stated with respect to the operation of the currency in producing the distress under which the country was acknowledged to be labouring. He was convinced, and he felt bound to declare it, that if the currency was not the cause of all the distress, it had at least produced nine-tenths of the whole of it. With respect to the motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen he would say he believed there were few Gentlemen on that side of the House who did not agree that some reduction of taxation and of public expenditure was necessary, and that if it were necessary at all times, it became more imperatively required from them when the working classes on whom it bore hardest were labouring under so many difficulties. There were two objects to be at all times kept in view, as affording a ground for the reduction of the public Establishments. The first was, to save, to the utmost extent of their power, the property of the public; and the second was, to diminish that mass of patronage connected with taxation, which necessarily devolved on the Government, and which operated so much to the prejudice of the best interests of the country. He feared, however, that no reduction of taxation, even if carried to the extent proposed by the hon. Mem-
517—"æternum servans sub pectore vulnus."516515514Sir F. Burdett
hear520519ll518 said, he should not detain them long. [There had been some calls for "Mr. Baring," and "Mr. Grant,"] but he could not help observing that the hon. Member for Aberdeen, after having promised to tell them nothing new, had, in a speech of three hours, most religiously kept his word. He did not mean to follow the hon. Member for Aberdeen through all the topics introduced into his speech; but he should hold himself ready, on some future occasion, when the topics were separately discussed, to consider and reply to them. There were many things stated by that hon. Member in which it was impossible for him to agree, and others in which he did concur with him. He was persuaded that the only way to get at any profitable results was, to confine their attention to particulars; and in this too he concurred with the hon. Member for Aberdeen. In those parts of his speech in which he eulogized the Finance Committee he also thought the hon. Member was perfectly correct. But he thought that the hon. Member had not done his Majesty's Government justice, who had participated in all the labours of that Committee, and had shown no backwardness in promoting its labours. Of the labours of his Majesty's Ministers neither he nor the hon. Member for Abingdon (Mr. Maberley) had spoken with approbation. If they examined the matter fully, they would find that those who sat on his (Mr. Herries's) side of the House had had their full share in suggesting and promoting the measures
hear520519ll518Mr. Herries
521 said, that before the question was put, he wished to say a few words. He, for one, had always been anxious to give his support to measures of economy, when it was possible to do so with due consideration for the public service. He had already, by his vote on the Address, expressed his opinion of the general nature of the distress; and feeling resolved to follow up that opinion, being prepared to take every opportunity of enforcing it, yet he must confess that he could not support the Motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen. The Government had made the strongest professions of economy in the Speech from the Throne, and the Ministers had the other night pledged themselves in the strongest terms to the same effect. Under these circumstances, believing in their professions, and seeing that they had not yet had time to carry them into execution—believing in these things, and thinking it would not be dealing fairly with the Government to express prematurely an opinion of measures it had not yet proposed—believing that it would be premature to express a distrust of such positive declarations, he could not support the Motion. To him it seemed more fair towards the Government to allow it to produce its propositions to the House, and when the House saw them, it would deal with them as it thought fit. He admitted the propriety, and indeed the necessity of reducing taxation; he trusted that this would be done by the Government; and when it made its propositions for reducing the establishments, it would
521Mr. C. Grant
, alluding to something which had passed whilst the gallery was cleared, spoke in terms of censure of the criminal prosecutions recently instituted by the Attorney-General, and then adverted to the distressed state of the country. He said that in these unexampled days of unmitigated taxation, he felt it his duty to raise his voice in behalf of the distressed agriculturists and the unemployed manufacturers. He warned the Government not to exult either in their numbers or power. He would tell them, that if they should persevere in a course of lavish expenditure, they might perhaps find, when it was too late, that there was a majority out of doors which would make the majority within doors at length acknowledge the just views of the small minority of this night.Mr. J. Duncombe
 said, the hon. Member must have completely misunderstood what fell from him if he supposed that he expressed any feelings of triumph on account of the division which had taken place.Mr. Peel
 said, he thought it wrong that the House should proceed to dispose of the nation's money before it had considered the nation's distress. He therefore moved as an Amendment "that the House do now adjourn."The Marquis of Blandford
 wished to be allowed to place the Estimates on the Table in a Committee of Supply: the House would then by comparing them with the Estimates of last year, see the extent to which Government proposed to reduce the expenditure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, in reply to the hon. Member's question, that all he had stated on a former day was an opinion that it was possible materially to improve the system of banking, by removing the restrictions which impeded the formation of companies to carry on the business of banking. He had then said, that he hoped to see the day when a sound system of banking would be established; but he had said nothing with respect to any measure being in contemplation, nor was he now prepared to make any further declaration on the subject.Mr. Peel
 answered Yes;—a new writ has already been ordered.Mr. Peel
 thought, that laying the Estimates on the Table ought to be preceded by an explanatory statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he wished to know their amount.Mr. Tennyson
511 said, that in the abstract, he was ready to give his hearty concurrence to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. As far as it went in general he did not see how it was possible for the House to do otherwise than adopt it, for all that it contended for, was the necessity to reduce the expenditure to the lowest point, consistent with the safety of the country. He, however, apprehended that the House was already pledged to the full extent of the proposition which had been introduced by the hon. Gentleman, and he thought that the next step should be for one of his Majesty's Ministers or for some hon. Gentleman to propose the reduction of any specific tax that appeared most feasible or desirable. The universal decision of the House the other night on the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. Dawson), undoubtedly pledged the House and the Ministry to turn their attention to every possible reduction; and for himself he was disposed to give some degree of confidence to the disposition evinced by the Ministry to redeem their pledge, though there might, perhaps, be some difference of opinion as to what portion of reduction ought to take place. When they brought forward their reductions should such a difference arise, then would be the right time for debate. In his opinion, it was
511Mr. Western
 begged to state that he differed from the hon. Baronet and the Member for Essex in their views on the subject of the currency, and hoped they might never be able "to carry them into effect. He thought, however, that the manner in which the Government met the Motion of the Member for Aberdeen was well calculated to increase the dissatisfaction felt as to the manner in which the distress was mentioned in the King's Speech. The quibble resorted to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, ought not to influence the House, and he advised the House not to consider the feelings of that right hon. Gentleman, but those of the country.Mr. Charles Wood
 declared, that his confidence in his Majesty's Government was utterly gone. All great authorities differed from the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues. All the pigmies of former days differed from those giants of the present. The one set was wise, but the other was knowing. Knowledge was always proud that it knew so much; wisdom humble because it knew no more. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman opposite would have some respect for that chicken Lord Bacon. He would here read an extract from Bacon, who held that "It is bad for a State when money is gathered in a few hands; for money, like muck, is only good when it is spread."Mr. Wodehouse
 asked whether it was trite that Mr. F. Lewis had been appointed to the office of Treasurer of the Navy?Mr. Wodehouse
529 said, he was authorized by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. E. Davenport) to withdraw his notice of Motion which stood for to-morrow (upon the Distressed State of the Country). The hon. Member was induced to take this step partly on account of ill health, but chiefly from a desire to concur with those Members who were of opinion that it would be unwise to do any thing at the present moment which could have a ten-
529Mr. Wodehouse
527 in reply denied that his Resolution went so far as the right hon. Gentleman opposite imputed to it. In
527Mr. Hume
 said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to this subject. He found that many deaths from the Small-pox had recently occurred, owing to the industrious efforts of certain practitioners, who wished to persuade the public that no benefit was derived from Vaccination. After the public had been put to such expense to render Vaccination effectual, he thought, something ought to be done to prevent children afflicted with the Small-pox from coming in contact with those who were liable to catch the disease, leaving individuals at liberty to inoculate in whatever way they pleased.Mr. Hume
499l498lllllsslll497ld.d.lllll496lll495lll494lllllllll493lllll492ll491llll490489lll488lllllllllll487llllllllllll486lllllhear and a laughllllll485lllllllll484lllllll483llllllllllll482481 said, he wished, before the House resolved itself into the Committee, to submit to the House what, as it appeared to him, it was their duty to perform before they granted any Supplies whatever. He had, for many years past, endeavoured to impress on the House, that the difficulties which were then weighing on the
499l498lllllsslll497ld.d.lllll496lll495lll494lllllllll493lllll492ll491llll490489lll488lllllllllll487llllllllllll486lllllhear and a laughllllll485lllllllll484lllllll483llllllllllll482481Mr. Hume
 presented a petition from Mr. William Towsey, M.D. and others, for the adoption of a remedy to prevent the practice of Inoculation. It spoke of the prevalence of the Small-pox, and prayed the legislature to take efficient measures to prevent children afflicted with that malady from being carried about the streets.Mr. Dickinson
513512 said, it had been argued by the hon. Member for Essex (Mr. Western), that the Motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen was nothing but a repetition of the Amendment moved on a former evening by the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. G. Dawson). To a certain extent this was true; and he (Lord Althorp) was disposed to place so much confidence in the profession of the present Ministry, that he should have felt it right to give them an opportunity of fair trial before he pressed them any further; but then the Motion of his hon. friend also went to this extent, and was so far different from that Amendment that it desired a pledge of a reduction of taxation as well as of a reduction of the establishments,
513512Lord Althorp
522 said, those who opposed the Motion, objected to the time at which it was brought forward; but he believed the proper time for the Motion was before the Estimates were submitted to the House. The Ministers ought to be admonished to reduce the Estimates. He hoped nothing would be done to alter the currency; and for this reason he also hoped that some steps would be taken to reduce the expenditure, as otherwise we should be sure to have a national bankruptcy. The course which would avoid such a result was that proposed by the hon. Member for Aberdeen; and therefore he should support that hon. Member's Amendment. It was no longer time to inquire, if taxation could be kept up to the expenditure, or if the expenditure could be reduced; the country
522Lord Howick
 presented a petition from Bankers, Merchants, Manufacturers, and others of Leeds, against the renewal of the East India Company's Charter. He must support, the prayer of the petition. From the limited removal of restrictions on the trade that had already taken place, he augured that the most favourable results would ensue from a further extension of that principle of relief.Mr. Marshall
530 presented a petition from the inhabitants of several parishes in the hundred of Hindon, county of Wilts, complaining of the extreme distress of the times, and praying for an immediate reduction of Taxation. The petitioners observed, that the change in the currency had greatly raised the salaries of persons in office, and they wished that those salaries should be reduced in a ratio equivalent to the amount and value of wages. They contended that it was extremely hard on them that the price of labour should be reduced so greatly, while no reduction was effected elsewhere. This, be conceived, was a very
530Mr. Benet
 said, he did not know upon what ground the hon. Member assumed that Government would not act with good faith, in reference to the East India Question; and could only repeat what had been stated by his right hon. friend the Secretary for the Home Department, on the occasion of moving for a select committee, that Ministers went into the inquiry without any pre-engagement as to the particular course which they should adopt, and that, so far from that being the case, they would be free to adopt whatever might appear best for the general interest, after a fair investigation. With respect to the hon. Member's question, it had evidently been asked under misapprehension as to the terms of the Company's Charter, and the nature of the notice required. The hon. Member would find, on reference to the subject, that no notice was necessary till the month of April, 1831; and he would perceive that circumstances might occur before that time to guide the Government as to the course which it ought to adopt, and the decision to be taken in reference to the matter.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he should be obliged to move for a Committee to-morrow evening, in order to found a vote of Ways and Means thereon; but it was not his intention to go into the subject referred to on that occasion. When his gallant friend moved the Army Estimates on Friday, he (Mr. Goulburn) would then state the reductions which Ministers proposed to make upon all the Estimates of the year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether the House would be put in possession of the number of military officers who held civil situations, including those on full pay as well as half-pay.Mr. R. Gordon
 replied that he had no intention of bringing forward such a return, but it was competent to the hon. Member to move for the information required if he pleased.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—Has the right hon. Gentleman any objection to such a Motion?Mr. Gordon
 intimated that he should be prepared with an answer when he saw what was the hon. Member's Motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, if reductions of such a nature as was understood last night were to be brought forward, the House would require some little time to consider them. He believed he was rather obscure in what he stated last night on the subject of the Motion of his hon. friend the Member for Montrose; and there was one point in respect of which he wished to set himself right with the House and his hon. friend. He should be sorry to have it supposed that he had desired in any degree to depreciate the value of the Motion which his hon. friend had brought forward so ably, though he thought that there were other measures of equal or even greater importance which would relieve the depression which was, unfortunately, so prevalent.Sir F. Burdett
 hoped, that when the right hon. Gentleman stated, on Friday, the reductions to be made in the Estimates, he would also state what relief was to be afforded to the country in the amount of taxation.Lord J. Russell
 wished to ask the gallant officer if it were decent to press the Estimates forward in that manner? The House required a longer period of examination than had been proposed.Mr. Maberly
ex post facto537 moved for leave to bring in a Bill to ex-
ex post facto537Lord F. L. Gower
538ex post facto desired to express his thanks to the noble Secretary for Ireland, (Lord L. Gower) for the alteration he proposed to make in the Sub-letting Act. It certainly would be something in favour of the Irish tenantry that the first section should not have an 538ex post factoMr. Wallace
 said, that as to the fact stated by the hon. and learned Member for Clare, that the Sub-letting Act had tended to produce a large portion of the pauper population of Dublin, he would not deny the statement; but he begged to remark, that it was the subdivision of land which had, in a great measure, created that poverty. There was something in every country, but especially in such a country as Ireland, stronger than Acts of Parliament, and that was the custom of the people. The hon. and learned Member must, on that subject, be better qualified than any other man to give the House information, and to guide them in the attainment of their evident wish for the amelioration of Ireland. He was glad to hear from such an excellent and indisputable authority as the Solicitor-General for Ireland, the salutary effects of the great measure of last Session, and he should indulge with that hon. and learned Member in warm hopes for the future increasing prosperity of that country. But when he heard these statements, and the statements of the same hon. and learned Member, as to the satisfactory falsifications of all the prophecies of the evils that measure would have produced, he could not help asking whether the Member for Clare, more than any other person in the kingdom, was not the man to whom the country was indebted for these advantages? So that in referring to that hon. Member, they ought not to go backward in his career to find cause of blame, and, least of all, to seek to discover it in those expressions which the heats of discussion on that great question had called forth. The present was not a party question, and he trusted it would not be so treated.Sir F. Burdett
ex post facto544 stated, that he thought the law of England and Ireland might be advantageously assimilated in many respects; but still there were peculiar circumstances which made a difference in each. They were not then to consider whether a law should be passed
ex post facto544The Solicitor-General
 said, he should make no observations on the Motion of which he had given notice, as the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had told him there was no objection to it on the part of the Government. He moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Laws respecting the Leasing Powers of Bishops and Ecclesiastical Corporations in Ireland.Mr. Stanley
"Dî meliora piis, crroremque hostibus ilium."549548547546545.—In rising to bring forward the
"Dî meliora piis, crroremque hostibus ilium."549548547546545Lord John Russell
556555554553552551550 said, notwithstanding the peculiar circumstances in which I am placed, I trust that I shall be enabled to give such general explanations to the noble Lord as may induce him to be of opinion that it is not necessary to take the sense of the House upon his Motion. I say that I am placed under peculiar circumstances, because the House will recollect that on the first day of the Session, in the Speech from the Throne, his Majesty stated, that in conjunction with his Allies, and in conformity with the Treaty of the 6th of July, he was on the point of concluding a final arrangement for the pacification of Greece, and for the determination of its relations with the rest of Europe: and his Majesty was pleased to add, that all the papers connected with that arrangement, sufficient to explain the course he had taken, should
556555554553552551550Mr. Secretary Peel
566565.—I am extremely sorry, that when I stated that his Majesty's Government had been able to execute the Treaty
566565Mr. Peel
.—I can assure my noble friend that I admit his perfect right to express his opinions, and to have them considered expressly as his own; and if I had objected to it, I should have been justly subject to censure. But I was not speaking of opinions, but of facts. Neither did I impute to my noble friend any improper disclosure of the information he obtained while in office; all that I stated was, that having made a speech, I was placed under a disadvantage when my noble friend entered into details. The fact to which I referred was this—that my noble friend stated certain circumstances in such a manner as must have led those who heard him, to suppose that he spoke from authority, and that he was in possession of the negotiations between the powers, thereby leading those who heard him to conclude that England stood alone on the question of limits; and that if she would waive her objections on that head, there was reason to believe that the other powers would also waive theirs. For this reason I thought it necessary to state that the three contracting powers were agreed upon this point, and that there was no such want of harmony as my noble friend would have made out. It was for these reasons that I made the observations I did; and I beg to assure him, that in making them I did not in the least intend to impute to him any improper disclosures.Mr. Peel
 said, it was not his intention to divide the House on the Motion, which was then negatived without a division.Lord J. Russell
 said, he concurred with the hon. Member who spoke last, in returning thanks to the noble Secretary for Ireland (Lord L. Gower) for the explanatory Bill which his Lordship proposed to introduce; but in his opinion, it would be better to get rid of the Act altogether; because he thought the Union between Ireland and England never would be complete until the same Statute. Law was made common to both countries. For himself, he saw no good argument on which the continued existence of this Act could be defended, since the alleged reason for its creation (at least the only reason he had ever heard given) had ceased to exist. This Act had been passed to prevent great landholders from sub-dividing their lands for electioneering purposes; but now, by a late and most beneficial and just measure of the House, all temptation to the creation of collusive freeholds had been removed, and therefore the foundation upon which the Bill had been introduced being swept away, the law itself should not be suffered to remain.Mr. A. Dawson
532 presented a petition from the Inhabitants of Clare and its vicinity, for the establishment of Poor Laws in Ireland: it complained of severe distress, and prayed that the 43rd of Elizabeth might be ex-
532Mr. Brownlow
Ex-officio gave notice, that on the 3rd of March he would move for Copies of the Ex-officioSir Charles Wetherell
540539 begged it might be borne in mind that the predominant feeling in addressing the House upon this question which actuated him, was an anxiety to divest it of all party and political considerations; he wished it to be treated simply upon its own merits, and not as a question between one side of the House and the other. He had bestowed much attention upon this Act, and could conscientiously declare that he believed it mischievous, and in proof of this his belief, he referred to the Report of the Lord Mayor's Committee lately made at Dublin, from which it appeared, that of the seven thousand persons then famishing in that city, the greater number had been driven from the country by the operation of that Act. Now this fact he stated upon testimony that could not be doubted. This Act had met with great disapprobation, and had created great dissatisfaction throughout Ireland. Many petitions had been presented against it last Session, and several had already come in this year. In stating this he begged not to be understood as
540539Mr. O'Connell
531 said, he felt it to be his duty to support the prayer of this petition.—Those by whom it was signed were men of knowledge, experience, and reputation, and their representations were entitled to serious consideration. He thought it necessary to say a few words on this occasion, because last night he heard the Ministers of the Crown again and again deny the existence of general distress throughout the country. Now he did not know how hon. Members who represented
531Mr. Portman
534 said, he regretted that his hon. friend by whom the petition
534Sir George Philips
 presented, by command of his Majesty, the Army Estimates. He moved that they be printed. And gave notice that on Friday next he should propose Resolutions on them in a Committee of Supply.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, the hon. Member should have a printed copy of the Army Estimates in his possession to-morrow evening, or early on Thursday morning.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, no man was more conversant with the details of the Army Estimates than the hon. Member for Montrose; and therefore he would take the liberty of stating that the only difference in the Estimates of this year, as compared with preceding years, would consist in some items of diminished expenditure, and probably a reduction in the amount of force. Under such circumstances, if the Estimates were placed in the hands of the hon. Member to-morrow evening, he would have the whole of Thursday and Friday to consider them. He hoped this would not be inconsistent with entering into the subject in a Committee of Supply on Friday evening, particularly as the Committee had already been delayed a few days by impediments which prevented the introduction of the Estimates so soon as he had expected.Sir H. Hardinge
 moved, that an Address be presented to his Majesty for Copies or Extracts of all correspondence which may have taken place between his Majesty's Government and Foreign Powers, relating to the Slave Trade, since 1st of January 1829, and not already laid before this House: of all correspondence between his Majesty's Government and the British Commissioners of the mixed Commission Courts at Sierra Leone, the Havannah, Rio de Janeiro, and Surinam, relative to the Slave Trade, since 1st of January 1828, and not already laid before this House: of all correspondence which may have taken place between the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty and the Naval Officers stationed on the Coast of Africa, at the Cape of Good Hope, or elsewhere, relative to the Slave Trade, since 1st of January 1828, and not already laid before this House: and of all correspondence touching the Slave Trade received from the Governors of Sierra Leone, and other British Possessions on the Coast of Africa, and from the Governors of the Mauritius and the Cape of Good Hope, since 1st of January 1828, and not already laid before this House.Mr. Powell Buxton
542541 (the Solicitor-General for Ireland) said, he would not follow the hon. Member for Clare through the details upon which he had touched, details which he (Mr. Doherty) thought might be better discussed in the Committee, clause by clause. With respect to the general question, if the political life of the hon. Member (Mr. O'Connell) had commenced on the first day of that Session, he (Mr. Doherty) might perhaps have laboured under the mistake that it should be discussed upon its own merits, without reference to politics or party, as the hon. Member had expressed his desire it might be; but when he happened to know that it had been made the subject of agitation, and had been rendered an object of dissatisfaction in Ireland (though by no means to the extent stated by the hon. Member), he could not bring himself altogether to subscribe to the sincerity of that hon. and learned Gentleman's declaration. Before proceeding further, however, he had to state that he was not the legal adviser of the Secretary for Ireland at the time when this Act was passed. He was the unworthy successor of one whose character ought to have been sufficient to protect this measure from having been at least intended to produce the baneful effects attributed to it by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. Member seemed not to understand the policy or the history of this Act. This Act had emanated from a Committee of the House of Commons, before which there were two objects prominent. One was the Catholic Question, the other that now before the House. In favour of the Catholic Relief Bill there was a preponderance of opinion, resulting from the evidence; but there was no difference of opinion at all as to the necessity of a Sub-letting Act. It was true that nothing could be more fair than for the hon. Member for Clare to advocate the middlemen, but this was not the feeling of the Committee; they thought
542541Mr. Doherty
 put it to the gallant Secretary at War whether the House ought to be called on to vote any part of the Estimates on Friday, when in all probability Members would only have seen them on the morning of that day. He should wish for a day or two to consider them, particularly as reductions were talked of.Mr. Hume
 wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in reference to something that fell from him last night, and which seemed to have been misapprehended. The Committee of Supply stood postponed till to-morrow (Wednesday), and it had been understood that the right hon. Gentleman intended to state the reductions which Ministers were prepared to make in our establishments upon that occasion. He now wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would go into the subject of these retrenchments on Wednesday, or on a future evening;—he should persevere in resisting Supply, till the nature of the relief to be afforded to the country was stated.Mr. Hume
 begged to refer to two cases in which the East India Company had been of the utmost service in relieving the distress that existed in the manufacturing districts. An application was made to Mr. Loch, the Chairman of the Company, a few days ago, by Mr. Heald, vicar of Birstal, who represented the distress that existed in that neighbourhood, and solicited orders for cloth in order to mitigate it. The Company, although not in immediate want of the article, made a considerable purchase, to the great relief of the suffering manufacturers. In Norwich, much suffering prevailed among the working classes in December last, and acts of violence were perpetrated by some of the weavers, but extensive orders from the Company had produced the happiest effects in tranquillizing and affording employment to the people. Facts such as these were the best answer to any imputations cast upon the Company, as to having stood in the way of giving relief to the manufacturers, or impeding their interests.Mr. Astell
533 said, that seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, he would ask a question; he wished to know if it were the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to give notice to the Court of Directors what would be done with their Charter at the expiration of the three years? For his part, notwithstanding the professions of Government, he could not believe in the neutrality they professed, and be thought it apparent that they had a disposition to compromise this question. It would be difficult to show a case which could justify Ministers in withholding a full investigation of the question. If the people of the country were apathetic on the subject, their right would not be conceded. He was prompted also to express a hope that Ministers would not
533Mr. W. Whitmore
543 wished to express his obligations to the noble Lord who had introduced this measure, which he was sure would be productive of great benefit to Ireland. It was true that there had been petitions in great numbers against the Act, and such petitions deserved the utmost possible attention; but he believed that the complaints made by the petitioners were not against the principle of the Bill, but against some particular clauses in it. It was supposed by some
543Sir H. Parnell
558557 said, he must compliment the noble Lord on the candid tone of his whole speech, and the right hon. Secretary on the corresponding character of the earlier part of what he had addressed to the House. He would not follow the latter over the debateable ground of the policy of employing the influence of England in preventing the late war between Russia and Turkey, but he would say, expressly, what the right hon. Gentleman had said by implication, that the success of Russia in that just war (for such he admitted it to be) had enabled the three Allied Powers to bring the Treaty of the 6th July to a happy conclusion. He did not know that it was a matter of serious importance to inquire what had been the opinions of Mr. Fox thirty years ago relative to the independence of Turkey, but the case might be stated in a few words. In the course of the correspondence between Mr. Fox, as the head of the Foreign Office, and the Ministers of France in 1806, an opinion was expressed which had reference to that time, and to the then peculiar circumstances of England and France. It was wished to consolidate the peace of Europe, and for this purpose it was thought that the two powers should guarantee the integrity of Turkey. Such was the opinion of Mr. Fox at that single moment of his life, and under a peculiar combination of circumstances; but to that opinion was opposed what was well known to all the friends of Mr. Fox, that as an Englishman and as a lover of liberty, as a citizen of the world, he was an enemy to the institutions of Turkey—that he detested her tyrannical and barbarous principles—and that he heartily wished the Turks expelled from the boundaries of Europe, Mr. Fox
558557Sir J. Mackintosh
 wished to know whether the noble lord (lord J. Russell) intended to press his Motion to a division: because, if he did not, he (Sir R. Wilson) would not trouble the House with his opinions on the question in its present state. He also thought that it would be unfair to press the matter to a division, as the papers were not before the House.Sir Robert Wilson
 begged leave to give his approbation to the principle of the measure, and to observe that he thought Mr. O'Connell had been improperly attacked, for he had stated his objections to the Bill in a most candid and temperate manner.Lord Althorp
564563562minimum561560559 said, in adverting to the recommendation of his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) that they should postpone the discussion of the present question till the papers were before them, he could not but complain that the right hon. Gentleman
564563562minimum561560559Lord Palmerston
568.—I can assure my right hon. friend that nothing which may pass between him and me in this House will impair the friendship which exists between us: but I am sure the House could not imagine, when I was stating my opinion as to the boundaries of Greece, after having been two years out of office, that I was taking upon myself to insure
568Lord Palmerston
impromptu.567 said: Nothing that has fallen from my right hon. friend shall tempt me to deviate from that temper which I believe is always most successful in argument. My right hon. friend has told the House that he does not know whose representative I am. I will tell him. I stand here, humble as I am, as one of the Representatives of the People of England; and next, as the Representative of my own opinions—opinions, Sir, which I will never shape to suit the opinions of any other individual, let his situation be what it may, either in this House, or out of this House. I stand here as the Representative of my own opinions, and I think I can appeal to the recollection of my right hon. friend himself, to bear witness that those opinions have not changed since I had the honour of acting with him. I also stand here, I trust, as one of that body which represents, or which at least ought to be the maintainers of the honour and interests of England; and I can assure the House that I shall never be deterred from that duty by any taunts which my right hon. friend may not think unworthy of himself, or by any taunts which may extract a reluctant and unfrequent cheer from those who sit behind the Treasury Bench. Neither, Sir, will I ever be deterred by any of those—I will not call them unfair—but by any skilful dexterities of debate, from stating to the House those opinions which I honestly entertain on the public affairs of the country; and little shall I care whom those opinions may please or displease, or what motive may be imputed to me for doing what I most firmly believe to be my duty. But my right hon. friend has insinuated that I have availed myself of information obtained while in office; now my belief is, that I have stated nothing which every man who reads the newspapers of Europe, or who mixes in the society of any country he may happen to be in, might not have stated just as fully; and if the Ministry think that nothing of all this is known beyond the corner of
impromptu.567Lord Palmerston
 said, the reason of his abandoning the Bill last Session was the difficulty he met with in allotting compensation to the officers of the several Courts whose interests would be affected. He intended, however, to submit a preliminary proposition to the House to-morrow evening, and he hoped, by watching its progress and effect, to be able to accomplish all that was desired on the subject.Mr. Peel
570 said, that, in compliance with repeated wishes which had been expressed to him from various quarters, he begged again to call the
570Mr. Gordon
572ssds571 rose, in pursuance of his notice
572ssds571Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had abstained from giving an opinion as to whether all officers in those courts to which his Bill had reference should be paid by salary or by fees. All he asked was, whether, when an individual was discharged, he should be called on to pay for that which was not essential to his defence. He did not say that he meant to do away all fees and substitute a fixed salary. That was a point of grave importance and required much consideration.Mr. Secretary Peel
573 observed, that it was
573Sir James Graham
578577in toto"—vires acquirit eundo:"Hear, and laughter.in toto.in toto576575 said, he was ready to confirm the statements of the hon. Member for Limerick as to the credibility of the source of the information referred to on the subject of the present condition of some parts of the South of Ireland. Nobody felt more deeply than he did the vast importance of the question of which the hon. Member had given notice for the 11th of March; but he saw the propriety
578577in toto"—vires acquirit eundo:"Hear, and laughter.in toto.in toto576575Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
hear579 said, he had had no previous expectation that his right hon. friend would have appealed to him on the subject of his public conduct, for he was not aware that it had been attacked. Now that he was informed of the fact, he participated in the indignation expressed by his right hon. friend; and would say, that within the last six months, of all the representatives of Ireland there was not one who had exhibited a more sincere desire to mitigate the calamities under which that country had unfortunately laboured; and he might add, that all his right hon. friend's representations to Government proceeded on the ground that the poorer classes were suffering great distress from want of employment. His right hon. friend was not content with urging upon Ministers the necessity of relief, but submitted to him projects for affording it, to the developement of which more hours of labour must have been applied than he had conceived it possible for a gentleman to devote to such purposes who acted without the incentives of official remuneration or official duty, and was merely influenced by a feeling of humanity and a desire to promote the public good by affording practical relief to the distresses of his countrymen. His right hon. friend had repeatedly urged upon Government the necessity of affording relief to the poor of Ireland, not only for the sake of that country, but also for the sake of this; and recommended, as relief through the medium of charity had proved ineffectual, that substantial relief should be afforded by the employment of the poor. He heard
hear579Mr. Secretary Peel
 suggested to the hon. Member for Cork the propriety of including in his returns the amount of money paid to the treasurers, secretaries, and other officers of the several institutions. If this were done, it would be found that an immense portion of the funds intended for the benefit of the poor was frittered away in the support of useless and unwieldy establishments.Mr. Jephson
 moved the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider the expediency of granting a further Supply to his Majesty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could bear testimony to the fact, that the present regulation of paying the Clerks of the Peace by fees was attended by very great confusion and inconvenience. The preferable mode was to pay by a regular salary.—Leave was then given to bring in the Bill.Mr. Freemantle
ll presented a Petition from the manufacturers of Tobacco and Snuff in the cities of London and Westminster, and the borough of Southwark, complaining of losses which they had sustained in consequence of the conduct of his Majesty's Government, and praying for relief. The hon. Member stated, that the petitioners had in 1825 sustained a loss of 23 per cent, on their stock, in consequence of being misinformed with respect to the intentions of Ministers. An Act by which they were affected having expired in July 1825, a delegation waited on the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Robinson) and, inconsequence of the communication which he made to them, he having informed them that no alteration would be made in them, they had subsequently increased their stock to the large amount of 2,500,000llMr. C. Calvert
 had nothing to do with the comments that appeared in the newspapers upon the right hon. Gentleman's conduct. He certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman to differ from him in degree in his opinion as to the distressed condition of Ireland, although the right hon. Member qualified the difference by an admission of the existence of the distress. He was himself one of the right hon. Gentleman's constituents, and would undertake to say that no county in Ireland sent a Member to Parliament who possessed more entirely the confidence of all his constituents than did the right hon. Member for Kerry. The hon. and learned Member proceeded to state, that the latest account which he had received from Ireland fully corroborated his previous statements as to the prevalence of distress in that country. He fully concurred with the hon. Member for Limerick in his statement of the happy results of the measure of last Session. However, contrary to an opinion expressed in Parliament, he thought the benefits of it more visible in the unanimity and good feeling produced by it among the lower than among the higher ranks of society.Mr. O'Connell
 thought that all judicial fees ought to be abolished.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) if he intended to proceed with the Bill for the better recovery of Small Debts.Mr. Sykes
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill regulating the office of Clerk of the Peace, particularly with respect to the abolition of fees and to the substitution of a regular salary.Mr. Portman
 said, that in the observations he had made, he referred only to the pauper population which came into Cork from the neighbouring county; and that what he had said had no reference to the disputed question of general distress.Mr. Callaghan
 moved for a Return of the different Charitable Establishments of Ireland. The hon. Member felt himself obliged to say that the condition of the poor in the City which he represented was so appalling, that a delay of one day in inquiring into the causes of the evil might be dangerous to the peace of the community. He would take the opportunity to ask the hon. Member for Limerick what was the proposed scope of his inquiry with respect to the condition of the poor of Ireland, for which he intended to move the appointment of a Select Committee on the 11th of March. There was much anxiety in Ireland on the subject of the hon. Gentleman's motion; and he inquired whether the hon. Member's object was to procure means of relief for the infirm, to investigate the condition of unemployed labourers, or to propose the introduction into Ireland of the principle and practice of the present system of English Poor Laws. He regretted that so distant a day was fixed for the Motion upon the subject, particularly as it was not understood in Ireland whether it were intended to introduce the Poor Laws into that country or not.Mr. Callaghan
, after stating that he was one of those who had voted against granting any further Supply to his Majesty until Ministers had given some pledge that the distressed state of the country should be taken into consideration, and promised to come forward with some information on the subject, declared that since the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that he would give that information on Friday, he (Mr. Hume) did not feel himself obliged to oppose the present Motion.Mr. Hume
 presented a similar Petition from the Tobacco and Snuff manufacturers of Ipswich: and Mr. W. Smith, a similar Petition from the Tobacco and Snuff manufacturers of Norwich.Mr. R. Dundas
574, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, must state that his motive for deferring his Motion was, because no relief granted to Ireland could be complete without a previous inquiry into the charitable institutions of that country. His first object was to ascertain the actual state of the poor of Ireland, which would
574Mr. Spring Rice
 hoped, that before any compensation were granted for fees, their nature and amount would be strictly inquired into.Mr. W. Smith
 expressed his satisfaction that it was intended to appoint a Committee to inquire into the amount and nature of the fees paid to Clerks of the Peace. In his opinion all officers of County Courts ought to be paid by salaries, and not by fees; and he was happy to find the right hon. Gentleman of the same opinion. He would take the opportunity of observing, that the Act which had been introduced by the right hon. Gentleman for compelling the county to pay prosecutors their expenses, though very good in principle, was not so in practice; and in some cases had increased the county rates so alarmingly, that it was a subject which ought to be considered by the proposed Committee.Sir T. Baring
, in explanation, said that in many Courts the Clerk of the Peace disposed of his fees for a certain sum to a deputy, who, of course, extended their amount as much as he was able.Sir T. Baring
hear663662661660l.l.l.l.659l.banco,banco658hearhear.657656655654653652651 rose to make the Motion of which he had given notice respecting the Reform of the Courts of Law. Before he proceeded, he begged that so much of the Royal Speech at the opening of the Session as related to the measures for the improvements of the Courts of Law might be now read.hear663662661660l.l.l.l.659l.banco,banco658hearhear.657656655654653652651Mr. Secretary Peel
668nisi prius,banco667666665l.l.l.l.664 expressed his satisfaction at what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and agreed that the present was not the fit opportunity for discussing in detail the matters to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded. He thought it right that the proceedings should commence by such a Motion as the right hon. Gentleman had just made, because the evil of fees was at the root. In many instances, the cutting down of the emoluments of larger offices had been attended by this consequence, namely, throwing inordinate increase into the emoluments of lower offices. In this way, some of the very reforms, which had had reduction for their object had in reality produced increased salaries. With respect to the other parts of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, if he should have occasion to differ from him on a future occasion, it would only be, because he thought the right hon. Gentleman did not go far enough. As to the Welsh jurisdiction, when the time was come it must be put an end to. To the abolition of it there were two objections—the first was, that
668nisi prius,banco667666665l.l.l.l.664Mr. Brougham
649 remarked, that as he and some of his right hon. friends had lately had some communication on the subject with those who were personally interested in it, he felt that it would not be right to allow the petition to be laid on the Table without making a few observations. He would, however, entirely disconnect the question to which the petition referred from the subject of the currency, with which the hon. Baronet had endeavoured, very ingeniously, but not quite satisfactorily, to connect it. In his opinion, the object which the Petitioners had in view would be better promoted by discussing the matter without reference to any other topic than the grievance complained of. Of the difficulties which would attend the removal of that grievance without an interference between the employers and the persons employed; of the difficulties which would attend the application of an adequate remedy without the danger of injuriously increasing on the manufacturer and the capitalist the price of labour —of these considerations, which were of such vital importance, it would not be proper for him, on that occasion, to attempt to enter; the more especially as the hon. Member for Staffordshire had given notice that it was his intention, at a very early period, to move for leave to bring in a Bill, by which it was hoped that the evils now complained of might be remedied. Under these circumstances it would be worse than idle to anticipate the discussions to which the introduction of that measure would naturally give rise. But, as the subject had been mentioned elsewhere, he would merely observe that his Majesty's Government had expressed
649Mr. Herries
 protested against the inference attempted to be established by the right hon. Gentleman, that the question of Barter had nothing to do with the currency. He was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman, and others of his Majesty's Ministers, were so ignorant of the true state of the country, as to suppose that the system of Truck was to be considered apart from the question of the currency.Mr. R. Gordon
acmé,698De tallagio non concedendo;Anno Domini6976966956946936921.feu-rights,6916901.1.689688"Sum ex Us qui antiquos mirantur."687686"Morosa moris retentio res turbulenta est œque ac novitas"qui mala non permutat in bonis non perseverat""novis legibus non recreatœ acescunt"adagia685in exercitio mercandisarum,de quolibet Burgo duos Burgenses qui in navigio et exercitio mercandisarum notitiam habeant meliorem;684stat nominis umbra;Nuls autres in nulle manière.quod omnes tangit ab omnibus approbetur;fraunche et due election,683682681680"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura Columbas."679 spoke to the following effect.—I rise, Sir, to answer the call made on me last Session; and following the course suggested for my adoption by my right hon. opponent, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, I rise to offer for the consideration of this House, "a practical detailed measure:" and first, Sir, I must preface the observations I shall have occasion to address to you, by calling to the recollection of this House the course pursued by me upon the occasion I have referred to. I then, Sir, considered it my duty to divide the House upon the Question whether Parliament would or would not be pleased by a formal resolution to recognise the existence and venality of the close and decayed boroughs, for that really was the whole of the question which I thought it advisable to submit to the House, under the very singular opposition I met with from the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department. The venality of these boroughs is as sure as their existence, and both are equally notorious; but there is a wide difference between the notoriety of such offences, and a Parliamentary recognition of their existence. Mere notoriety begets defiance of public opinion and a fearless habit of offending. But if Parliament, by a formal vote, had put its brand mark upon these transactions—if by some general resolution it had stigmatized them as crimes against the law of Parliament and the Constitution of the country, a good foundation would then have been laid for the reform of what had been declared to be wrong and true, for the prevention of what had been denounced as illegal. But it did not seem good to the majority of this House to hurt the sensibilities of the Boroughmonger, by calling his trade by its proper name, or to injure his interests by saying, that his gains were condemned by Parliament and the country. The people, however, will speak out, though Parliament may chuse to keep silence, and may try to impose silence upon others. The voice of the country is not to be stifled by a vote of this House— it will attempt in vain to smother truth—
acmé,698De tallagio non concedendo;Anno Domini6976966956946936921.feu-rights,6916901.1.689688"Sum ex Us qui antiquos mirantur."687686"Morosa moris retentio res turbulenta est œque ac novitas"qui mala non permutat in bonis non perseverat""novis legibus non recreatœ acescunt"adagia685in exercitio mercandisarum,de quolibet Burgo duos Burgenses qui in navigio et exercitio mercandisarum notitiam habeant meliorem;684stat nominis umbra;Nuls autres in nulle manière.quod omnes tangit ab omnibus approbetur;fraunche et due election,683682681680"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura Columbas."679The Marquis of Blandford
 seconded the Motion.Mr. Hume
699 said, he was willing to bear his testimony to the necessity of Reform, in evidence of which he would state that the county of Cornwall was by no means benefitted by the number of Members that it returned to serve in Parliament. Until the noble Mover had communicated them to the House, he had not been aware of the provisions of his Bill, nor was he
699Mr. Pendarvis
in limine, professed his admiration of the noble Marquis's speech generally, although he could not promise him his unconditional support. In the present calamitous state of the country, it was, in his opinion, an object of the first importance, to administer relief to the people, and most sincerely sorry was he to see that no disposition to grant that relief had been manifested by the Government. When he looked to the two past Sessions, with a grateful recollection of the important measures which they had passed, to the great benefit of the country, he had hoped that the present Session also would have been similarly distinguished. But he now saw that Parliamentary Reform must precede every suggestion for public advantage, and on that account he would support the Motion of the noble Marquis. People who were but lukewarm in the cause, or at heart disinclined to it, were accustomed to lay hold on the details of a proposed measure, and stop it in limine,Mr. Benett
laughter701ad libitum, said, that he had much doubted the noble Marquis's sincerity last Session, when he first introduced a Motion upon the subject, as it did not appear to him that he had really put on the armour of a Reformer. He then thought that the noble Marquis had ostensibly avowed himself a champion of Reform for the purpose of attaining better vantage ground to attack Ministers for having carried another measure which he conscientiously opposed. He had at present however, no longer any doubt of his perfect sincerity, and felt confident that if it were in his power to-morrow he would execute all that he had proposed. In short, he believed in the reformation of the noble Mover. The principle of the measure he should always support, as he was sent thither by his constituents for that purpose. If Reform had been long since accomplished he was convinced that many of the burthens under which the people suffered would have been withdrawn ere now, and many obnoxious laws would have been effaced. Some of the latter, indeed, had been repealed, owing to the liberality and wisdom of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He was sorry not to see the Attorney General in his place, as he had wished to have made some allusion to the law of libel, which that right hon. Gentleman had been pledged, under the administration of Mr. Canning, to reform. This was assuredly one of those laws which ought to have been repealed, inflicting, as it did, transportation on a second conviction. If the Parliament had been reformed, we should not have heard of men being dispossessed of their property by a borough proprietor, because they had presumed to exercise their rights as free men. We should not then have heard of British citizens being treated on the footing of goods and chattels. The Members of that House were daily disputing as to whether the present distress was to be considered partial or general, but that question would have soon been set at rest if every Member were personally acquainted with the circumstances of his constituents, and able to declare them. He would advocate and support a fair and free representation, and he was not authorized by his constituents to go further. It occurred to him that the measure proposed was partially objectionable, as it gave somewhat too despotic a power to the Committee, who were permitted to denote, laughter701ad libitum,Sir Robert Wilson
 expressed his willingness to vote with the noble Marquis, as the defects in the representation were so numerous that he had long acknowledged the general necessity for Reform. His sentiments on this point he had already taken too many opportunities of expressing to require his doing so on the present occasion. Although he consented so far to support the Bill, he avowed himself to be comparatively ignorant of its details. Lord Nugent
l1.7031.l.Si quœris monumentum, circumspice.702 was anxious to hear what the opponents of the Motion could say to it, as hitherto they had heard nothing but arguments in its favour. He could feel no nicety in declaring that he had always voted for Reform, and always would vote for Reform, and all the measures that had the least resemblance to that under their consideration; and for this plain reason, viz. that he conceived the present system the worst possible system of representation that ever existed in a free Government. He would not take up the time of the House in urging the reasons for this opinion, but he would say that every day convinced him more and more of the truth: of this position. We had the forms of freedom with all the disadvantages of the most corrupt system of representation that was ever devised. He would vote for the Motion, because he was satisfied that the Bill could not possibly make us worse than we were, because the Parliament was not collected with the consent of the people but with their complete disassent; because it. was not assembled by their will, but against their conviction; and because the Members were not assembled to do the business of the people, but their own. He could not understand why some reformers should oppose the Motion, for it could not do otherwise than good. He did not understand the Bill, but he understood: that it was the object of the noble Lord to reform the House, and that was enough for him. He was anxious to vote for this measure, because the House had of late been fixing its attention on particular cases; and when it could fix its fangs
l1.7031.l.Si quœris monumentum, circumspice.702Mr. Hobhouse
704 said, he should not have troubled the House if it were not that the hon. Member opposite had expressed his desire to hear what the opponents of the measure could say against it. He thought the opponents of the measure were absolved from saying anything against it by the opposition the Motion of the noble Marquis had already met with on the other: side of the House. All that had been said in favour of the Bill was the mere assertion—that the House did not represent the people. That assertion embraced
704Mr. Twiss
710709l.708707706705 observed, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, who had attempted to throw a ridicule upon the Motion of the noble Lord, had so utterly mistaken the purport of the paper read by his hon. colleague, that he seemed to think the paper an irony on the present state of the House. The hon. Gentleman had mistaken, and perverted, and misunderstood the argument of his hon. colleague, who had admitted, as he (Sir F. Burdett) ad-
710709l.708707706705Sir F. Burdett
714nec mala nec remedia pati possumus.713712 rose to address the House, but his commencing observations were inaudible, and during the whole of his Speech he was very indistinctly heard, owing to the emotion which he appeared to feel. After some remarks upon the Motion of the noble Marquis, he proceeded to say, that he had not risen so much for the sake of speaking upon it as for the sake of observing on the extraordinary conduct of his hon. friend opposite, who, in a debate which had no allusion to him (the Attorney General) personally, had thought proper to cast the weight of his heavy censure upon him. He thought that as there were two Motions already upon the order book, which would afford some regular opportunity for discussing his conduct, he might have expected that at least, in candour, his friends—from his enemies he could expect nothing but hostility—would have abstained from introducing such a discussion until he had received due notice of their intention. But as his hon. friend the Member for Westminster had introduced him to the notice of the House, he would commence by assuring his hon. friend that there was no act of his professional life on which he looked back with greater satisfaction than that in which he had had the distinguished honour of appearing as his defender. This he could at least say, that whether he had defended his hon. friend ably or not, he had done it honestly, zealously, and sincerely, for he felt at that time, and he felt now, that the prosecution which was instituted against his hon. friend was a prosecution which ought never to have been instituted at all. He would not shrink from stating his opinion upon that prosecution at all times and in all places; but if his hon. friend would look into the proceedings to which he had just alluded, and would impartially consider all that had been done or said in the course of them, he was persuaded that his hon. friend, for whom he felt the utmost regard and affection, would find that he had neither done nor said any thing inconsistent with the principles on which he had defended him. He could not accept the compliment which his honourable friend had wished to pay him, in supposing that the late prosecutions had been forced upon him by the compulsion of the Cabinet. Those prosecutions required to be looked upon not incidentally in the course of another debate, they were of sufficient
714nec mala nec remedia pati possumus.713712The Attorney General
a laughl.columbœ,"Dat veniam corvis—vexat censura columbas." said, that he had known his hon. and learned friend (the Attorney General) for many years, and had never known him profess any opinions but such as were favourable to the cause of freedom. He should therefore wait to hear his explanation of his conduct in the recent prosecutions before he ventured to give any opinion upon it. He could not, however, refrain from remarking, that there had lately appeared in the newspapers words attributed—perhaps incorrectly—to his hon. and learned friend, which, if they were correct, he must say could not be looked upon without regret. It was only the other day that he read in the newspapers words said to have been used by his hon. and learned friend, which led him to suppose that his hon. and learned friend objected to the public's canvassing the opinions of judges and of juries. He hoped that his hon. and learned friend would be able to explain these words away at the proper time. The noble Lord then proceeded to state, that in voting with the noble Marquis upon the present occasion, he did so not upon the grounds upon which the noble Marquis had put it, but upon the grounds upon which he had not put it. He voted for it not because he thought that it was a question which ought to be referred to a Commit-tee of twenty-one, but because he thought that it was a question which ought to be referred to a Committee of the whole House. The noble Lord ridiculed the idea that the House had acted unfairly to such boroughs as it had disfranchised for corrupt practices, inasmuch as it was notorious that practices equally corrupt prevailed in every part of the country. There was no ground for applying, as the noble Lord had done, the hacknied quotation,
a laughl.columbœ,"Dat veniam corvis—vexat censura columbas."Lord John Russel
"Hear," and laughterl.l.717716a laugheloquentiœ satis, sapientiœ parvum715 said, he was unwilling to give his vote unaccompanied by a few observations, lest he should be deemed
"Hear," and laughterl.l.717716a laugheloquentiœ satis, sapientiœ parvum715Mr. Secretary Peel
hear718 observed that, from the manner in which the benches of that House were filled, it was impossible to expect any great object, for the benefit of the people would be carried. The hon. Baronet below him (Sir F. Burdett) had not been able, with all his great talents, his well-known perseverance, and his tried integrity, to prevent the passing of any one of those measures which had brought the country to its present state. Mr. Pitt, who commenced his career as a reformer, soon deserted the interests of the people. His great energies were first displayed in the strenuous support of those interests, but that he soon found was a losing game. He saw that the voice of the people in that House was weak and powerless, and that the voice of another class, which had been raised to influence, was all-powerful there; and to that class he attached himself. They now beheld before them a
hear718Viscount Howick
721l.720l.719 said, he certainly should not have risen at that late hour, had he not been pointedly alluded to by his hon. friend, the Member for Westminster (Mr. Hobhouse). On a former occasion he did most cheerfully join in hunting down the mangy wolf, and now he would as readily join in the pursuit of the remaining portion of the flock.—[This allusion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was to the conclusion of a speech of his own in the discussion some days before, on a Motion respecting the Borough of East Retford.] If they had scotched one wolf, they certainly ought not to let the others escape. As for the Committee of twenty-one, he was as little disposed to support it as the right hon. Secretary. He was decidedly of opinion that no authority short of the Legislature itself should possess the power of disfranchising Boroughs or Cities, —but these details were matters of secondary importance—he looked to the principle of the measure; it was a Bill to secure the popular representation of the people, and beyond that it was a Bill to exclude placemen and pensioners from Parliament; as such he would support it, though he confessed that the plan for paying the Representatives of the people did not meet his approbation. He neither wished for wages from the people, nor for salaries from the crown. But when the right hon. Secretary talked of the wages as so likely to alienate the confidence of the people, he should have remembered
721l.720l.719Mr. O'Connell
cheers723hear, hear722 commenced by declaring, that he considered the conduct of the hon. Members for Aylesbury, Cornwall, and Wiltshire to be unfair, they having stated that, although they approved of certain portions of the noble Marquis's Resolution, and would vote for his having leave to bring in his Bill, yet that they did so with the intention of opposing it at some future stage of its progress through that House. He also considered that this project of suffering the measure to exist for one moment, that they might strangle it in the next, was senseless and ridiculous. He would pursue a different course. It was not because he disapproved of some points in that Resolution that he was to pronounce a sweeping condemnation of it, for there were others which met with his most decided approbation; and if he looked upon the question with no other view but that one, he should feel himself bound to give the noble Marquis his vote. He differed certainly from the noble Marquis in the first part of his project, as far as any one man possibly could differ from another. He also disagreed with him as to the policy of wages or payment for Members; yet, when he looked to other parts of that Bill, if he did not falsify all his just professions—if he did not run counter to all his former votes, he could not refuse to give the noble Marquis the opportunity of bringing in his Bill, and so afford him the chance of having its provisions carried into effect. Amongst the desirable objects of this Bill, he found that all copyholders were to have a right to vote—that the
cheers723hear, hear722Mr. Brougham
724 said, he had not the remotest idea of imputing to the noble Marquis any such feeling as the hon. and
724Mr. H. Twiss
 certainly did hear the hon. and learned Member speak of two sorts of irony—the one more ludicrous, the other more stern. As to his observation being unbecoming, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman should thank him for giving him an opportunity of explaining a point, with respect to which, but for that explanation, it would appear that the whole House would have been totally and entirely mistaken.Mr. Brougham
 said, he felt it to be his duty, being called on to give his vote one way or another, to declare, that he would vote against the Bill. He could not support a Bill now, which he knew he must oppose hereafter.Mr. Stanley
 said, that the Amendment was general, and the hon. Gentleman might vote for that.Colonel Davies
 declared, that he would vote for the Motion of his noble relation, if it were pressed to a division; but, agreeing with his hon. and learned friend, he thought the best course would be to adopt the Amendment. He therefore moved, "That all the words after the word 'that' be omitted, in order to insert the following:—"It is the opinion of this House that a Reform in the Representation of the people is necessary."Lord Althorp
673 trusted, that a the several subjects were not now before the House in detail, it would not be expected that he should then enter into a minute examination of those matters which hereafter would come fully before them. His right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) had only proposed to give the House a general view of the course to be hereafter pursued, and he trusted the House would feel that he was more entitled to credit for the extent to which his explanation had gone, than to blame for any omission of more minute detail of every part. He fully concurred with his right hon. friend in the remark that they owed much of those judicial reforms to the very able exposition given on a former occasion by his hon. and learned
673The Attorney-General
ex post facto677, in reply, said, that he had avoided going into any detail as to the construction of the Scotch Courts, but referring to what fell from the hon. Member for Aberdeen, he should have no objection to such returns as those for which he intended to move, but he feared that the returns of the number of hours which the Scotch Judges sat in the Court of Session would not go far to establish the hon. Member's case — that the number could be reduced to half. Their attendance in Court would not show the amount of the business they had to perform. Great part of the business of the Scotch Courts was clone in writings; and besides the hours of attendance, the hon. Member should know how much of the time of the Judges was occupied out of Court in examining those written documents. Besides, it should be borne in mind that the Scotch Courts had much business in law and in equity, and that many matters connected with elections were brought before them. If, therefore, the hon. Member wished to see the whole extent of the business of the Scotch Judges, he should alter the form of the returns for which he had expressed his intention to move. He
ex post facto677Mr. Peel
678 said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood what he said about a Code. He was not for making now a new Code of laws for the country. We had already the materials in English law for an excellent Code, and the comments of the Judges would form so many philosophic experiments by which the fitness of certain parts of it might be decided.
678Mr. O'Connell
ex post facto676hear, hear.675ab initio,674vis inertiœ never heard anything that gave him more satisfaction than the clear and distinct statement of the right hon. Gentleman; and instead of being surprised that he could not go more minutely into the technicalities of the subject, it was matter of astonishment that he had been able to compress so much in so short a statement. There was healing in what he said. It was a clear admission of the necessity for improvement—of the fact, that the Government are not hostile to a change—that it did not even oppose the ex post facto676hear, hear.675ab initio,674vis inertiœMr. O'Connell
645 in presenting a Petition from several parishes in Dublin against
645Mr. O'Connell
 doubted the policy or expediency of connecting the subject of the petition with the currency. It was his intention to bring the question before the House on Thursday, when he should move for leave to bring in a Bill to render more effectual the laws for the payment of wages in money.Mr. Littleton
 in presenting a Petition from the ladies and female inhabitants of Worcester, praying that effectual stop should be put to the burning of Hindoo Widows. He begged leave to ask, for the satisfaction of those who had intrusted him with this Petition, and of other persons who took an interest in the subject, whether the report which had gone abroad, that the Indian Government intended to abolish the practice of burning Hindoo widows, was correct?Mr. Protheroe
 said, he would be happy to give the hon. Gentleman and his friends every satisfaction in his power. He had, a few nights ago, laid a paper on the Table relative to this subject; and a Report relative to it would also be speedily laid before the House. The statement in the newspapers respecting an order of the Governor-general forbidding the practice was not confirmed by any official document that had come home. But there was great reason to believe, from the information of individuals, to whom the sentiments of the people of India were known, that a considerable change had taken place in their feelings; and that, at no great distance of time, the practice would be abolished. But no step should be taken that would offend the religious prejudices of the natives. Nothing would be done by the Government in haste; but they most seriously wished that the object of the Petitioners might be carried into effect.Mr. G. Bankes
 contended, that the system of Truck was immediately connected with the currency. As matters stood at present, no manufacturer could continue to carry on business without obtaining a double profit, first as a manufacturer, and next as a huxter. He sincerely hoped that the hon. Member for Staffordshire might find it possible to carry his meritorious measure into effect.Mr. Benett
672 begged to express the satisfaction he felt at the proposed changes, as far as they went; and as they had now been submitted to the consideration of the House, the sooner they were effected the better. He hoped, however, that in making them the country would not be put to any unnecessary expense. In making those changes, he did hope that the House would consider whether the number of Judges in the Court of Session in Scotland was not much greater than was required. The Scotch Judges had not one half the business
672Mr. Hume
 trusted, that the measure relative to the payment of wages in money would receive due consideration from Government and the House.Mr. Benson
 said, he found it quite impossible to disconnect the subject of the Petition from that of the Currency.Sir John Wrottesley
648l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.647l.d.s.l.646, in rising to present a Petition from a number of workmen employed at Bilston, in Staffordshire, against the practice of paying Labourers' Wages by goods, begged pardon of the House for the formal manner in which he was about to bring it forward. But the subject to which it related bore so strongly on the poor, that he felt himself bound to ask permission of the House to state it fully, and he trusted that Gentlemen would listen for a few moments to the observations he intended to make. The practice to which the Petition referred was one to which his own observation had been directed; but, in speaking of it, he would not confine himself to facts which came within his own knowledge; he would quote the principal points contained in the Petition which he had the honour to offer to the House. The Petitioners stated that the town of Bilston was connected with very large collieries and iron-works, for which very great rents were paid. They said, that a numerous body of men were employed there, who were chiefly paid in goods by their masters. They next stated, that if a workman sought for redress, he was immediately discharged. They complained that the masters resorted to various expedients to evade the law: they delayed to settle with the men sometimes for six weeks; and when the latter, in want of sustenance, applied to the masters, they supplied them with goods, thirty per cent above the market price. Other masters, they alleged, paid the workmen in money in one counting-house, with which they were obliged to purchase goods, the property of their employers, in another. They state, that as many months elapsed before the masters paid the bills which the workmen were compelled to run up with the shopkeeper, the latter forced the poor workmen to pay exorbitant prices. Under these circumstances, they called on the House to amend the law, in order to put an end to this ruinous prac-
648l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.647l.d.s.l.646Sir J. Wrottesley
repartimiento.650 said, the hon. Member for Staffordshire would be a public benefactor if he could put an end to the system Of Truck, which was similar to the practice
repartimiento.650Sir R. Wilson
671670669 gave also his concur-
671670669Mr. Ferguson
, in explanation, said that he had not expressed a wish that things should remain as they were in the Scotch Courts. He gave the right hon. Gentleman credit for what he proposed, but he was not a defender of the state of things as they now existed in those Courts.Mr. Ferguson
737And be it further enacted, that as soon as the said Committee shall have proceeded in manner as aforesaid, to have enfranchised such populous unrepresented, or inadequately represented cities, boroughs, or towns throughout the United Kingdom, in place of those thatAnd it is hereby enacted, that the wages of attendance, as aforesaid, shall be well and truly paid to the said Member or Members, and that any agreement or understanding to the contrary shall render void the election of any Member that shall have entered into the same; and the amount of such wages, according to the present value of money, shall be deemed, and taken to be, after the rate of a day for every Member of any city, borough, town, or place, and a day for every Member of any county; and the same shall be assessed upon the electors, according to the value of the houses they inhabit, or of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, which afford the right of voting.And it shall be the duty of the Lord High Chancellor of England, in the event of a new Parliament, and of the Speaker of the House of Commons, while Parliament is sitting, to cause such writs to be sent to the Sheriffs of every county in which such town or place shall be situated, for the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, as shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Act.hear, hear736And it shall be the duty of the said Secretary of State upon the receipt of such report from the said Committee to cause the same to be forthwith published in the Gazette, and to transmit a copy thereof to the Lord High Chancellor of England, to the Speaker of the House of Commons, and to the returning officer or officers of such town or place, with directions forthwith to make the same as public as possible therein: and such report so made by the said Committee to the said Secretary of State according to the directions of this Act, shall be deemed and considered to be the Charter of enfranchisement of such city, borough, town, or place as shall be therein mentioned, for the purpose of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament.And be it further enacted, that in all such cases the right of voting shall be, and is hereby declared to be, in all the inhabitant householders assessed to any rate or tax, parochial or Parliamentary, within such town or place, or within such hundreds, districts, or parishes surrounding the same; and all such electors shall be assessed by the returning officer or officers thereof, for the payment of such wages as aforesaid, and of all expenses attending the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, according to the value of the houses inhabited by such electors.returning officer or officers of such town or place.735And as soon as it shall be declared in the Gazette that any city or cities, borough or boroughs, or any cinque port or other town that now sends a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, has ceased to send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee to select, and report to the said Secretary of State, that they have selected such populous, unrepresented, or inadequately represented town or place, including such hundreds, districts, or parishes surrounding such town or place as the said Committee shall think proper to point out, in order to fulfil the object and intentions of this Act, so that the said electors shall be fully equal to bear the burthen of paying a Member or Members the wages of attendance according to the value of money at the present day, and that there shall be no immediate danger of the franchise being abused by misuser or non-user. And it shall be the duty of the said Committee to point out in such report who shall be theherein before-mentioned in respect of those boroughs where the right of voting depends upon estates held by burgage tenure, and then in respect of those cities or boroughs where there are the fewest number of electors, and to proceed in such order throughout the whole of the cities and boroughs in the United Kingdom that send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament. begged to call the attention of
737And be it further enacted, that as soon as the said Committee shall have proceeded in manner as aforesaid, to have enfranchised such populous unrepresented, or inadequately represented cities, boroughs, or towns throughout the United Kingdom, in place of those thatAnd it is hereby enacted, that the wages of attendance, as aforesaid, shall be well and truly paid to the said Member or Members, and that any agreement or understanding to the contrary shall render void the election of any Member that shall have entered into the same; and the amount of such wages, according to the present value of money, shall be deemed, and taken to be, after the rate of a day for every Member of any city, borough, town, or place, and a day for every Member of any county; and the same shall be assessed upon the electors, according to the value of the houses they inhabit, or of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, which afford the right of voting.And it shall be the duty of the Lord High Chancellor of England, in the event of a new Parliament, and of the Speaker of the House of Commons, while Parliament is sitting, to cause such writs to be sent to the Sheriffs of every county in which such town or place shall be situated, for the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, as shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Act.hear, hear736And it shall be the duty of the said Secretary of State upon the receipt of such report from the said Committee to cause the same to be forthwith published in the Gazette, and to transmit a copy thereof to the Lord High Chancellor of England, to the Speaker of the House of Commons, and to the returning officer or officers of such town or place, with directions forthwith to make the same as public as possible therein: and such report so made by the said Committee to the said Secretary of State according to the directions of this Act, shall be deemed and considered to be the Charter of enfranchisement of such city, borough, town, or place as shall be therein mentioned, for the purpose of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament.And be it further enacted, that in all such cases the right of voting shall be, and is hereby declared to be, in all the inhabitant householders assessed to any rate or tax, parochial or Parliamentary, within such town or place, or within such hundreds, districts, or parishes surrounding the same; and all such electors shall be assessed by the returning officer or officers thereof, for the payment of such wages as aforesaid, and of all expenses attending the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, according to the value of the houses inhabited by such electors.returning officer or officers of such town or place.735And as soon as it shall be declared in the Gazette that any city or cities, borough or boroughs, or any cinque port or other town that now sends a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, has ceased to send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee to select, and report to the said Secretary of State, that they have selected such populous, unrepresented, or inadequately represented town or place, including such hundreds, districts, or parishes surrounding such town or place as the said Committee shall think proper to point out, in order to fulfil the object and intentions of this Act, so that the said electors shall be fully equal to bear the burthen of paying a Member or Members the wages of attendance according to the value of money at the present day, and that there shall be no immediate danger of the franchise being abused by misuser or non-user. And it shall be the duty of the said Committee to point out in such report who shall be theherein before-mentioned in respect of those boroughs where the right of voting depends upon estates held by burgage tenure, and then in respect of those cities or boroughs where there are the fewest number of electors, and to proceed in such order throughout the whole of the cities and boroughs in the United Kingdom that send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament.Mr. Stanley
742And whereas, it is expedient to prevent the present enormous expense often attending elections both in towns and counties; be it therefore further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the said Committee to make such regulations, as to counties, respecting the places in each county at which the poll, if demanded, shall be adjourned after the twoAnd be it further enacted, that no Burgess, or other person now having a right to vote in any city, borough, or place, for any Member or Members to serve in Parliament, shall again be allowed to exercise such right, unless he be resident within the same; and as it is not the intention of this Act to disfranchise any person whatever, it is hereby declared, that all such non-resident Burgesses, shall be entitled to vote at the next and all subsequent elections for the city, borough, town, or place, that shall be nearest to the place of resilience of such persons, provided such notice shall be given to the returning officer thereof, in respect of assessment, as is hereinbefore mentioned.voting as arise from the superiority alone, distinct from the property, shall be entitled to vote at the next and at all subsequent elections for the city, borough, town, or place, that shall be nearest to the place of residence of such persons, provided such notice shall be given to the returning officer thereof in respect of assessment, as is hereinbefore mentioned.741And it is hereby declared, that the right of voting in any county for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, shall in no case whatever be hereafter created, by any such contrivances of separating the superiority from the properly, nor shall such right be hereafter exercised by any person not in possession of the property, as well as the superiority; but all persons now in possession of such rights ofelections, for the county at large, within which such city, borough, town, or other place, shall be situate, the same as if their lands, tenements, or hereditaments, were situate in the said county, and that all persons who shall hold lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by copy of Court Roll, or under and by virtue of any leases, or feu-rights for ninety-nine years, or for any other term of years, provided such leases or feu-rights for such other term of years shall be renewable from time to time for ever at the will of the leasee or feuar, or by virtue of any lease or feu-right for any term of years, whereof not less than twenty-one shall be to come and unexpired at the time of such persons tendering their votes, shall be entitled to vote at the next and at all subsequent elections for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for that county within which such lands or hereditaments are respectively situated in the same manner as if such persons had a freehold estate in such lands, tenements, or hereditaments.740Be it therefore further enacted, that all such freeholders last above mentioned shall he entitled to rote at the next, and all subsequentAnd whereas, many freeholders, whose lands, tenements, or hereditaments happen to be situate in any city, borough, or other place, which is a county of itself, may be unrepresented:And whereas, in that part of the united kingdom called Scotland, a system has crept in of separating the freehold or superiority from the property, whereby voters have been created who may possess no land whatever within the county, and moreover much landed property is now held by what is called feu-right for long terms of years, and quite independent of the will of the Lords or superiors; and all such property, like the said leaseholds and copyholds in England, is entirely unrepresented, contrary to the fundamental principles of the Constitution:And whereas, when the right of voting for Knights or Members for counties to serve in Parliament was limited to freeholders, leaseholds for long terms of years were unknown, and copyholders were absolutely dependant on the will of their lords:tendering his vote, he shall have given notice in writing that he is ready and willing to be assessed as aforesaid, and such notice shall be given to the returning officer of such city, borough, town, or place:739And be it further enacted, that if, notwithstanding the obvious intent and meaning of this Act, to confer upon every householder as aforesaid, in the United Kingdom, the right of voting for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, any such householder shall find himself not included in any of the hundreds, parishes, or districts, selected in any case by the said Committee as aforesaid, it shall be in the power of such householder to vote at the next and all future elections for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament in the city, borough, town, or place, that shall happen to be the nearest to the residence of such householder, provided he shall not be entitled to vote for the county at large, and that beforeAnd it is hereby declared, that all such inhabitant householders shall be electors at the next, and at all future elections for the said city or borough, and shall be assessed accordingly, in manner aforesaid.the said hundreds, parishes, and districts, assessed to any rate or tax, parochial or parliamentary, shall, together with the present electors in such city or borough, be fully equal to bear the burthen of paying the' wages of attendance as aforesaid; and upon such selection to report the same to the said Secretary of State; and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary forthwith to publish the same in the Gazette, and transmit copies thereof as aforesaid, and for the like purposes.hear, hear738shall have been thus declared to have ceased to send Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee, if any number of seats remain unfilled-up, as aforesaid, to select such counties in Scotland as are at present subject to alternate representation only, and afterwards such other counties in the United Kingdom as the said Committee shall think stand most in need of one or more additional Members, and thereupon to make their report to the said Secretary of State; and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary forthwith to publish the same in the Gazette, and to cause copies thereof to be sent to the Lord High Chancellor of England, the Speaker of the House of Commons, and the Sheriffs of the said counties for the purposes aforesaid; provided always, that before the said Committee shall thus add to the representation of any of the counties in the United Kingdom, save and except to those counties in Scotland, now unrepresented as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said Committee to select such hundreds, parishes, and districts, surrounding such cities or boroughs where the inhabitant householders now have the right of voting, and which city or borough shall not fall within any of the reasons above-mentioned, to justify the said Committee, according to the meaning and intention of this Act, in making any report concerning the same to the said Secretary of State, so that the inhabitant householders in said, that he believed the hon. Member had correctly stated all the facts of the case, as far as the Petitioner was concerned. The Petitioner, whose name was Wild, was capitally convicted in the year 1824, under
742And whereas, it is expedient to prevent the present enormous expense often attending elections both in towns and counties; be it therefore further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the said Committee to make such regulations, as to counties, respecting the places in each county at which the poll, if demanded, shall be adjourned after the twoAnd be it further enacted, that no Burgess, or other person now having a right to vote in any city, borough, or place, for any Member or Members to serve in Parliament, shall again be allowed to exercise such right, unless he be resident within the same; and as it is not the intention of this Act to disfranchise any person whatever, it is hereby declared, that all such non-resident Burgesses, shall be entitled to vote at the next and all subsequent elections for the city, borough, town, or place, that shall be nearest to the place of resilience of such persons, provided such notice shall be given to the returning officer thereof, in respect of assessment, as is hereinbefore mentioned.voting as arise from the superiority alone, distinct from the property, shall be entitled to vote at the next and at all subsequent elections for the city, borough, town, or place, that shall be nearest to the place of residence of such persons, provided such notice shall be given to the returning officer thereof in respect of assessment, as is hereinbefore mentioned.741And it is hereby declared, that the right of voting in any county for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, shall in no case whatever be hereafter created, by any such contrivances of separating the superiority from the properly, nor shall such right be hereafter exercised by any person not in possession of the property, as well as the superiority; but all persons now in possession of such rights ofelections, for the county at large, within which such city, borough, town, or other place, shall be situate, the same as if their lands, tenements, or hereditaments, were situate in the said county, and that all persons who shall hold lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by copy of Court Roll, or under and by virtue of any leases, or feu-rights for ninety-nine years, or for any other term of years, provided such leases or feu-rights for such other term of years shall be renewable from time to time for ever at the will of the leasee or feuar, or by virtue of any lease or feu-right for any term of years, whereof not less than twenty-one shall be to come and unexpired at the time of such persons tendering their votes, shall be entitled to vote at the next and at all subsequent elections for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament for that county within which such lands or hereditaments are respectively situated in the same manner as if such persons had a freehold estate in such lands, tenements, or hereditaments.740Be it therefore further enacted, that all such freeholders last above mentioned shall he entitled to rote at the next, and all subsequentAnd whereas, many freeholders, whose lands, tenements, or hereditaments happen to be situate in any city, borough, or other place, which is a county of itself, may be unrepresented:And whereas, in that part of the united kingdom called Scotland, a system has crept in of separating the freehold or superiority from the property, whereby voters have been created who may possess no land whatever within the county, and moreover much landed property is now held by what is called feu-right for long terms of years, and quite independent of the will of the Lords or superiors; and all such property, like the said leaseholds and copyholds in England, is entirely unrepresented, contrary to the fundamental principles of the Constitution:And whereas, when the right of voting for Knights or Members for counties to serve in Parliament was limited to freeholders, leaseholds for long terms of years were unknown, and copyholders were absolutely dependant on the will of their lords:tendering his vote, he shall have given notice in writing that he is ready and willing to be assessed as aforesaid, and such notice shall be given to the returning officer of such city, borough, town, or place:739And be it further enacted, that if, notwithstanding the obvious intent and meaning of this Act, to confer upon every householder as aforesaid, in the United Kingdom, the right of voting for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, any such householder shall find himself not included in any of the hundreds, parishes, or districts, selected in any case by the said Committee as aforesaid, it shall be in the power of such householder to vote at the next and all future elections for a Member or Members to serve in Parliament in the city, borough, town, or place, that shall happen to be the nearest to the residence of such householder, provided he shall not be entitled to vote for the county at large, and that beforeAnd it is hereby declared, that all such inhabitant householders shall be electors at the next, and at all future elections for the said city or borough, and shall be assessed accordingly, in manner aforesaid.the said hundreds, parishes, and districts, assessed to any rate or tax, parochial or parliamentary, shall, together with the present electors in such city or borough, be fully equal to bear the burthen of paying the' wages of attendance as aforesaid; and upon such selection to report the same to the said Secretary of State; and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary forthwith to publish the same in the Gazette, and transmit copies thereof as aforesaid, and for the like purposes.hear, hear738shall have been thus declared to have ceased to send Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee, if any number of seats remain unfilled-up, as aforesaid, to select such counties in Scotland as are at present subject to alternate representation only, and afterwards such other counties in the United Kingdom as the said Committee shall think stand most in need of one or more additional Members, and thereupon to make their report to the said Secretary of State; and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary forthwith to publish the same in the Gazette, and to cause copies thereof to be sent to the Lord High Chancellor of England, the Speaker of the House of Commons, and the Sheriffs of the said counties for the purposes aforesaid; provided always, that before the said Committee shall thus add to the representation of any of the counties in the United Kingdom, save and except to those counties in Scotland, now unrepresented as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said Committee to select such hundreds, parishes, and districts, surrounding such cities or boroughs where the inhabitant householders now have the right of voting, and which city or borough shall not fall within any of the reasons above-mentioned, to justify the said Committee, according to the meaning and intention of this Act, in making any report concerning the same to the said Secretary of State, so that the inhabitant householders inMr. Secretary Peel
 said, that this individual had been wounded in the head, and when in liquor he was insane; as the persons in New South Wales had an equal value for their lives as the people of England, it was as absurd to allow the prisoner to go free in one country as in the other.Colonel Davies
 said, that no man was in any danger from the prisoner, except an individual against whom he entertained some, particular feelings of revenge. The House, he trusted, would pause before they asked for papers in a matter so exclusively belonging to the prerogatives of the Crown. Mr. Peel
743And whereas, by repealing a modern Act of Parliament, namely, the 1st of Geo. I. commonly called the Septennial Bill, and by the repeal of another Act still more modern, namely 14th George III. c. 58, which repealed the wise enactments of the 23rd Hen. VI. c. 14, and the 1st of Hen, V. requiring the electorsAnd be it further enacted, that an Act passed in the 9th year of his present Majesty, entitled "An Act to regulate the mode of taking the poll at the election of Members to serve in Parliament for cities, boroughs, and ports in England and Wales, and all other Acts whereby the expense of erecting booths or polling places for the election of any Member or Members to serve in Parliament, is put upon the candidate, or on the person putting such candidate in nomination, are hereby repealed.Gazette,first days of the election; and as to large and populous towns, respecting the manner in which the numbers of the electors in each town may be increased and apportioned, or such other regulations as the said Committee may think proper for the sake of putting an end to all great expenses, and of rendering the right of voting as convenient and as efficient as possible. And such regulations shall be reported to the Secretary of State, to be pub-listed in the Gazette, read a part of the Petition;
743And whereas, by repealing a modern Act of Parliament, namely, the 1st of Geo. I. commonly called the Septennial Bill, and by the repeal of another Act still more modern, namely 14th George III. c. 58, which repealed the wise enactments of the 23rd Hen. VI. c. 14, and the 1st of Hen, V. requiring the electorsAnd be it further enacted, that an Act passed in the 9th year of his present Majesty, entitled "An Act to regulate the mode of taking the poll at the election of Members to serve in Parliament for cities, boroughs, and ports in England and Wales, and all other Acts whereby the expense of erecting booths or polling places for the election of any Member or Members to serve in Parliament, is put upon the candidate, or on the person putting such candidate in nomination, are hereby repealed.Gazette,first days of the election; and as to large and populous towns, respecting the manner in which the numbers of the electors in each town may be increased and apportioned, or such other regulations as the said Committee may think proper for the sake of putting an end to all great expenses, and of rendering the right of voting as convenient and as efficient as possible. And such regulations shall be reported to the Secretary of State, to be pub-listed in the Gazette,Mr. Stanley
ll then moved—first, "That, in order to make good the Supply voted to his Majesty, the sum of 2,500,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
754llhearlll753And it is hereby declared, that nothing in this Act shall be construed to extend to the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, or Dublin, and that all cities, boroughs, ports, or towns in the United Kingdom that do send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, are intended to be included in the provisions of this Act, and are included accordingly. And all the provisions of this Act in respect of towns and counties, and all other provisions of this Act, shall be in full force and virtue.hear.lll752And with respect to all other cities, boroughs, or ports, which now send a Member or Members to Parliament, the same directions shall be sent by the said Secretary of State to the returning officers thereof, so that the elections may be made therein by such inhabitant house-holders, as aforesaid.visions of this Act, as to the right of voting, right of sitting in the House of Commons, and in respect of all other matters and things therein contained, shall be in full force and virtue the same as if the said Committee had made the reports required by this Act.l751**And be it further enacted, that all the pro-And be it further enacted, that writs in place of the before mentioned writs shall be sent by the said Secretary of State, together with a sufficient number of copies of this Act to the Sheriff's of such counties as the King, with the advice of the Privy Council, shall think proper, and the said Sheriffs shall be commanded to return such number of Citizens and Burgesses for such large, populous, unrepresented, or inadequately represented towns, the same being fully able to bear the burthen of paying the wages of attendance as aforesaid, as shall be specified in the said writs; and the said Sheriffs shall be further commanded to give notice to such persons as may be appointed to be the returning officer or officers of such towns or to the inhabitants thereof, as publicly as possible, that returns of all Members to serve in Parliament are to be made by the majority of votes of the inhabitant householders of such towns, assessed to any tax, parochial or parliamentary, and who shall agree to be assessed to the wages of attendance as aforesaid.*Burgesses, shall be sent to the following places Old Sarum, Gatton, Westbury—*lllllll750Be it therefore further enacted, that in case of a dissolution of the present Parliament before the said Committee shall have reported upon every city, borough, and port, in the United Kingdom, and that such report shall have been published in the Gazette, by the said Secretary of State, in manner before mentioned, no writ for the election of Citizens orAnd whereas, in the present distressed and alarming state of the country, it may not be safe to wait for the deliberate investigations and reports of the said Committee, as required by this Act,obvious meaning of the said Act, as set forth in the preamble and enactments of the same, and if it shall appear to me that any improvement can be made in the said Act for the better fulfilling the clear intentions of the Legislature as therein expressed, I will not fail to propose that such improvement shall be reported to the House of Commons, or to vote for it if proposed by others, and that in a matter of such importance, as restoring to the House of Commons the perfect confidence of the nation, and securing for ever the rights and liberties of the people, I will consider it ray duty to be regular and punctual in my attendance' on the said Committee, sickness or any other unavoidable cause alone preventing such attendance."llll749"I do solemnly promise and swear, that laying aside all private interests or motives, I will, to the best of my judgment, faithfully execute all the provisions of the Act under which I have been appointed a Member of the Reform Committee, according to the plan andAnd be it further enacted, that it shall be in the power of the said Committee to send for and examine upon oath such witnesses as they may think proper, and that all the Members of the said Committee shall themselves take the following Oath:—And be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the said Committee to direct how and by what persons the assessments herein before-mentioned may most conveniently be raised and levied on the electors, and how all other things necessary to give effect to this Act are to be done and executed, and to report the same to the said Secretary of State, and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary of State to give notice of the same to the proper authorities, and to see that all the directions transmitted to him by the said Committee are duly executed and performed.delay take place; and upon complaint of any Member of the House of Commons, it shall be the duty of the Speaker to give such directions under his hand, respecting the sittings of the said Committee, and of the attendance of the Members thereof, as shall secure the due execution of this Act.lll748And whereas it is expedient and highly necessary that effectual means should be taken to secure the due attendance of the Members of the said Committee: Be it therefore further enacted, that not less than fifteen Members of the said Committee shall always be present at each sitting, and that the Chair shall be taken in succession, that all the expenses of witnesses; and all other expenses necessary for the carrying this Act into full execution, shall be paid in the same manner as in all other parliamentary inquiries; that in no case shall the time of the said Committee be occupied in hearing counsel, nor shall any unnecessaryBe it therefore further enacted, that the said Act shall be cancelled and taken off the file and records of the Statute Book, or otherwise defaced and obliterated that the same may not be visible in after ages, and the said Act is hereby wholly repealed and declared to be null and void to all intents and purposes.ex post factoAnd whereas An Act passed in the forty-first year of his late Majesty King George 3rd, entitled, "An Act to remove all doubts respecting the eligibility of persons in holy orders to sit in the House of Commons," was passed for a particular case, against a single individual, and does affect the rights of a large and learned body of men, and by its then ex post factollll747And whereas it is expedient that no modern Act touching the freedom of election or the eligibility of Members to serve in Parliament should be suffered to disgrace the Statute-book, if the same shall have been made in any particular case, and from personal motives towards any individual, and particularly where the rights and interests of a large and learned body of men have been thereby improperly affected:and render more effectual the Laws relating to the qualification of Members to sit in the House of Commons," and all those contained in an Act passed in the fifty-ninth year of his late Majesty King George 3rd, entitled "An Act for further regulating the qualification of Members to serve in the United Parliament of Great Britain and Ireland;" and also that so much of the Act passed in the 6th year of the reign of Queen Anne, entitled "An Act for the security of her Majesty's person and Government, and of the succession to the Crown of Great Britain in the Protestant line," as enables any person or persons accepting offices or places of profit under the King to be re-elected, is hereby repealed; and it is declared that the said enactment in the Act passed in the 12th and 13th year of the reign of King William 3rd, was meant to extend to all offices or places of profit under the King that then existed, or that should thereafter exist, and the said enactment is hereby extended to the same accordingly.746lBe it therefore further enacted, that so much of the Act passed in the ninth year of the reign of Queen Anne entitled "An Act for securing the freedom of Parliaments by the farther qualifying the Members to sit in the House of Commons," as renders it necessary for every citizen or burgess to have an estate of freehold or copyhold of the annual value of 300lAnd whereas this wise provision for the better securing the rights and liberties of the people, has been entirely defeated by an Act passed in the 6th year of the reign of her late Majesty Queen Anne,ledge, and feelings as themselves: and whereas, by an Act passed in the 12th and 13th year of the reign of his Majesty King William 3rd, entitled "An Act for the further limitation of the Crown, and the better securing the rights and liberties of the subject," it was among other things enacted "That no person who has an office or place of profit under the King, or receives a pension from the Crown, shall be capable of serving in the House of Commons," and by the same Act it was solemnly declared that the laws of England are the birthright of the people thereof:"hear745And whereas it is expedient that the laws of England touching the representation of the Commons of England, should be restored to the state in which they stood for so many hundred years; and that cities and boroughs should not be bound down to make choice of landed men, inasmuch as such landed men may not be always found in the said cities and boroughs, and therefore the electors thereof should be at liberty to elect such persons among them as have the same interests, know-And whereas, from the time of the reign of King Henry the Third, to the ninth year of the reign of Queen Anne, there was no law to prevent such Citizens and Burgesses from sitting in Parliament as might not be in possession of freehold or copyhold estates of the annual value of three hundred pounds:contained in this Act, by their report as aforesaid, to confirm the said right of choosing from others to such city, borough, or port, or to transfer such right to such other town as they may select to fill up the place of such city, borough, or port, according to the directions of this Act. And it is hereby declared that the fact of any such resident inhabitant of any city, borough, or place, being elected to serve in Parliament, shall be held to make such inhabitant free of such city, borough, or place, for the purpose of satisfying the said Act passed in the first year of King Henry the Third, hereinbefore mentioned.744Be it therefore further enacted, that from and after the expiration of the present Session of Parliament, the said Act made in the first year of the reign of his late Majesty, King George the First, entitled, "An Act for enlarging the time of continuance of Parliaments appointed by an Act made in the sixth year of the reign of King William and Queen Mary," and also the said Act made in the fourteenth year of the reign of his late Majesty George the Third, entitled, "An Act for repealing an Act made in the first year of the reign of King Henry the Fifth, so much of several Acts of the eighth, tenth, or twenty-third years of King Henry the Sixth, as relates to the residence of persons to be elected Members to serve in Parliament, or of the persons by whom they are chosen," shall be, and the same are hereby wholly repealed and declared to be null and void to all intents and purposes whatsoever, as if the said Acts had never been had or made. Provided always, that whenever any city, borough, or port is now entitled by Charter to choose from themselves and others, a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee, notwithstanding any thingand the elected to be resident within their respective counties., cities, and boroughs, the purity of representation would be greatly increased, and those laws restored which ought never to have been repealed. said, in moving that the Speaker do leave the Chair, in order to enable the House to go
754llhearlll753And it is hereby declared, that nothing in this Act shall be construed to extend to the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, or Dublin, and that all cities, boroughs, ports, or towns in the United Kingdom that do send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, are intended to be included in the provisions of this Act, and are included accordingly. And all the provisions of this Act in respect of towns and counties, and all other provisions of this Act, shall be in full force and virtue.hear.lll752And with respect to all other cities, boroughs, or ports, which now send a Member or Members to Parliament, the same directions shall be sent by the said Secretary of State to the returning officers thereof, so that the elections may be made therein by such inhabitant house-holders, as aforesaid.visions of this Act, as to the right of voting, right of sitting in the House of Commons, and in respect of all other matters and things therein contained, shall be in full force and virtue the same as if the said Committee had made the reports required by this Act.l751**And be it further enacted, that all the pro-And be it further enacted, that writs in place of the before mentioned writs shall be sent by the said Secretary of State, together with a sufficient number of copies of this Act to the Sheriff's of such counties as the King, with the advice of the Privy Council, shall think proper, and the said Sheriffs shall be commanded to return such number of Citizens and Burgesses for such large, populous, unrepresented, or inadequately represented towns, the same being fully able to bear the burthen of paying the wages of attendance as aforesaid, as shall be specified in the said writs; and the said Sheriffs shall be further commanded to give notice to such persons as may be appointed to be the returning officer or officers of such towns or to the inhabitants thereof, as publicly as possible, that returns of all Members to serve in Parliament are to be made by the majority of votes of the inhabitant householders of such towns, assessed to any tax, parochial or parliamentary, and who shall agree to be assessed to the wages of attendance as aforesaid.*Burgesses, shall be sent to the following places Old Sarum, Gatton, Westbury—*lllllll750Be it therefore further enacted, that in case of a dissolution of the present Parliament before the said Committee shall have reported upon every city, borough, and port, in the United Kingdom, and that such report shall have been published in the Gazette, by the said Secretary of State, in manner before mentioned, no writ for the election of Citizens orAnd whereas, in the present distressed and alarming state of the country, it may not be safe to wait for the deliberate investigations and reports of the said Committee, as required by this Act,obvious meaning of the said Act, as set forth in the preamble and enactments of the same, and if it shall appear to me that any improvement can be made in the said Act for the better fulfilling the clear intentions of the Legislature as therein expressed, I will not fail to propose that such improvement shall be reported to the House of Commons, or to vote for it if proposed by others, and that in a matter of such importance, as restoring to the House of Commons the perfect confidence of the nation, and securing for ever the rights and liberties of the people, I will consider it ray duty to be regular and punctual in my attendance' on the said Committee, sickness or any other unavoidable cause alone preventing such attendance."llll749"I do solemnly promise and swear, that laying aside all private interests or motives, I will, to the best of my judgment, faithfully execute all the provisions of the Act under which I have been appointed a Member of the Reform Committee, according to the plan andAnd be it further enacted, that it shall be in the power of the said Committee to send for and examine upon oath such witnesses as they may think proper, and that all the Members of the said Committee shall themselves take the following Oath:—And be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the said Committee to direct how and by what persons the assessments herein before-mentioned may most conveniently be raised and levied on the electors, and how all other things necessary to give effect to this Act are to be done and executed, and to report the same to the said Secretary of State, and it shall be the duty of the said Secretary of State to give notice of the same to the proper authorities, and to see that all the directions transmitted to him by the said Committee are duly executed and performed.delay take place; and upon complaint of any Member of the House of Commons, it shall be the duty of the Speaker to give such directions under his hand, respecting the sittings of the said Committee, and of the attendance of the Members thereof, as shall secure the due execution of this Act.lll748And whereas it is expedient and highly necessary that effectual means should be taken to secure the due attendance of the Members of the said Committee: Be it therefore further enacted, that not less than fifteen Members of the said Committee shall always be present at each sitting, and that the Chair shall be taken in succession, that all the expenses of witnesses; and all other expenses necessary for the carrying this Act into full execution, shall be paid in the same manner as in all other parliamentary inquiries; that in no case shall the time of the said Committee be occupied in hearing counsel, nor shall any unnecessaryBe it therefore further enacted, that the said Act shall be cancelled and taken off the file and records of the Statute Book, or otherwise defaced and obliterated that the same may not be visible in after ages, and the said Act is hereby wholly repealed and declared to be null and void to all intents and purposes.ex post factoAnd whereas An Act passed in the forty-first year of his late Majesty King George 3rd, entitled, "An Act to remove all doubts respecting the eligibility of persons in holy orders to sit in the House of Commons," was passed for a particular case, against a single individual, and does affect the rights of a large and learned body of men, and by its then ex post factollll747And whereas it is expedient that no modern Act touching the freedom of election or the eligibility of Members to serve in Parliament should be suffered to disgrace the Statute-book, if the same shall have been made in any particular case, and from personal motives towards any individual, and particularly where the rights and interests of a large and learned body of men have been thereby improperly affected:and render more effectual the Laws relating to the qualification of Members to sit in the House of Commons," and all those contained in an Act passed in the fifty-ninth year of his late Majesty King George 3rd, entitled "An Act for further regulating the qualification of Members to serve in the United Parliament of Great Britain and Ireland;" and also that so much of the Act passed in the 6th year of the reign of Queen Anne, entitled "An Act for the security of her Majesty's person and Government, and of the succession to the Crown of Great Britain in the Protestant line," as enables any person or persons accepting offices or places of profit under the King to be re-elected, is hereby repealed; and it is declared that the said enactment in the Act passed in the 12th and 13th year of the reign of King William 3rd, was meant to extend to all offices or places of profit under the King that then existed, or that should thereafter exist, and the said enactment is hereby extended to the same accordingly.746lBe it therefore further enacted, that so much of the Act passed in the ninth year of the reign of Queen Anne entitled "An Act for securing the freedom of Parliaments by the farther qualifying the Members to sit in the House of Commons," as renders it necessary for every citizen or burgess to have an estate of freehold or copyhold of the annual value of 300lAnd whereas this wise provision for the better securing the rights and liberties of the people, has been entirely defeated by an Act passed in the 6th year of the reign of her late Majesty Queen Anne,ledge, and feelings as themselves: and whereas, by an Act passed in the 12th and 13th year of the reign of his Majesty King William 3rd, entitled "An Act for the further limitation of the Crown, and the better securing the rights and liberties of the subject," it was among other things enacted "That no person who has an office or place of profit under the King, or receives a pension from the Crown, shall be capable of serving in the House of Commons," and by the same Act it was solemnly declared that the laws of England are the birthright of the people thereof:"hear745And whereas it is expedient that the laws of England touching the representation of the Commons of England, should be restored to the state in which they stood for so many hundred years; and that cities and boroughs should not be bound down to make choice of landed men, inasmuch as such landed men may not be always found in the said cities and boroughs, and therefore the electors thereof should be at liberty to elect such persons among them as have the same interests, know-And whereas, from the time of the reign of King Henry the Third, to the ninth year of the reign of Queen Anne, there was no law to prevent such Citizens and Burgesses from sitting in Parliament as might not be in possession of freehold or copyhold estates of the annual value of three hundred pounds:contained in this Act, by their report as aforesaid, to confirm the said right of choosing from others to such city, borough, or port, or to transfer such right to such other town as they may select to fill up the place of such city, borough, or port, according to the directions of this Act. And it is hereby declared that the fact of any such resident inhabitant of any city, borough, or place, being elected to serve in Parliament, shall be held to make such inhabitant free of such city, borough, or place, for the purpose of satisfying the said Act passed in the first year of King Henry the Third, hereinbefore mentioned.744Be it therefore further enacted, that from and after the expiration of the present Session of Parliament, the said Act made in the first year of the reign of his late Majesty, King George the First, entitled, "An Act for enlarging the time of continuance of Parliaments appointed by an Act made in the sixth year of the reign of King William and Queen Mary," and also the said Act made in the fourteenth year of the reign of his late Majesty George the Third, entitled, "An Act for repealing an Act made in the first year of the reign of King Henry the Fifth, so much of several Acts of the eighth, tenth, or twenty-third years of King Henry the Sixth, as relates to the residence of persons to be elected Members to serve in Parliament, or of the persons by whom they are chosen," shall be, and the same are hereby wholly repealed and declared to be null and void to all intents and purposes whatsoever, as if the said Acts had never been had or made. Provided always, that whenever any city, borough, or port is now entitled by Charter to choose from themselves and others, a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, it shall be the duty of the said Committee, notwithstanding any thingand the elected to be resident within their respective counties., cities, and boroughs, the purity of representation would be greatly increased, and those laws restored which ought never to have been repealed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—No, no.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l755 explained, that the balance sheet was merely an account of the expenditure during the year past, and never tallied with the Estimates, In the present
l755The Chancellor of the Exchequer
763762 said, the allusion in the King's Speech to the distress of the country was vague and unsatisfactory. There were three classes suffering at present. The landowner, who did not get his rents; the capitalists, who had to endure a diminution of profits; and lastly, the labourers and artizans—the most numerous of the three—who were compelled to work for their support. Now he contended that unless a division were made in this triplicate character of distress, little could be done. Every man must agree with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr.
763762Mr. W. Horton
hear, hear769hear, from Mr. Hume768hear767766765hear hear! from the Treasury benches764 said, that the attention of every body was directed to the distress now prevalent, and every body both within and without that House looked out for some measure of relief. No persons at all acquainted with the state of the country could deny that the distress was very general; but if they looked to the reductions the Government would be able to make as a permanent source of relief,
hear, hear769hear, from Mr. Hume768hear767766765hear hear! from the Treasury benches764Mr. Baring
770 said, that the efforts of any hon. Member to procure retrenchment must be ineffectual without the aid of the Government; and yet retrenchment they must have, and that of a more extensive kind than any that had been hitherto adopted. He agreed with those hon. Gentlemen who said that these reductions would not give material relief to the country; but at the same time he felt assured, that without them no relief whatever would be obtained. The causes of the distress had not been sufficiently examined. How was it that some were abounding in plenty, while others were deeply distressed? that the warehouses of the manufacturer were over-stocked, and yet that thousands were in want of the articles of his manufacture? In this condition, how small was the relief that the reduction of one million of taxes would give the country! With respect to the Estimates, he thought it was incumbent on the Government to act with a view to the greatest possible economy; for though the relief was but small, still it was absolutely wanted. There were some taxes that ought more than others to be immediately abolished. In his opinion no tax bore more hardly on the mass of the people than the House and Window Taxes,
770Mr. Alderman Waithman
774lllllllll773lllll772lll771bona fide commenced by referring to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Callington, whom he had expected, and had not been disappointed in that expectation, to be merely the echo of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On one point, however, like the celebrated echo of the sister kingdom, he had even said more than was put into his mouth, and had suggested a plan which the right hon. Gentleman would never have thought of proposing. The hon. Member for Calling-ton had been one of the last to support the now exploded fallacy of the Sinking Fund, which, if maintained at all, should be preserved, not by paying with one hand and borrowing with the other, but by an actual 774lllllllll773lllll772lll771bona fideMr. Maberly
 had been disappointed by the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not merely at the amount of reduction, but at the mode of its application. He thought that both the Army and Navy cost the country too much, more especially after Ireland had been pacified, and all chance of war in Europe was at an end, in consequence of the subjugation of Turkey. In Ireland alone, a reduction of the military force might be made to the extent of 5000 men.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
much confusion and frequent cries of "Order order."lrenewed and increased disturbance781 rose, but for a considerable time the noise of Members leaving the House rendered the observations of the hon. and gallant Member totally inaudible. He declared that he should not have troubled the Committee, were he not influenced by a deep sense of the importance of the savings which might be effected in those
much confusion and frequent cries of "Order order."lrenewed and increased disturbance781Colonel Davies
hear, hear.784hear hearhear, hear! and a laugh.783hear.782No, no then proceeded to state his objections to the Estimates. He could not be brought he said to think that the country was in that high and pal my state which could warrant, the high amount at which the military force of the country was fixed in those Estimates. There never was a period at which our foreign relations placed us in a more disgraceful situation. [hear, hear.784hear hearhear, hear! and a laugh.783hear.782No, noColonel Davies
hear, hear785hear, hear. said, he should support the Amendment of his gallant friend, although the address of the right hon. Gentleman was calculated to make converts of them all. For his own part he preferred a good weak Government to a good strong Government, because from the former concessions were sometimes obtained, while with the latter they had never been able to make head against abuses. It was from what was gained from a good weak Government that he expected the salvation of this country would one day or another be insured. The reason for which he rose to trouble the House at that particular moment was this: He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, who had that night come forward with an explanation of the general reduction of Expenditure for the year, whether it was or was not his intention to make any reduction in the amount of taxation? [hear, hear785hear, hear.Mr. Hobhouse
hear, hearhear said, he rose to say a very few words in reply to the questions of the hon. Member for Westminster. He confessed that if, consistently with his view of the duty he owed the public service, he could give an explicit answer to that question, he should be most happy to comply with his desire, The House had already seen the readiness with which he had acceded to the general desire, in laying before it, at the earliest period, a statement of the amount of reductions; and he trusted he might, from; that fact, be credited for the assurance that he should feel equally ready to convey information with respect to the application of the saving, did he not feel that it was totally out of his power to state what might be the ulterior views of the Government on that subject, [hear, hearhearThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the amount of men retained to supply the place of those in the Colonies, which he recollected very well the Secretary at War stated, in his examination before the Finance Committee, to be in the proportion of four to six—that is, that for every sixty men we had in the Colonies, it was necessary to keep forty in this country. He hoped, however, the hon. Member would not press his Motion to a division, because it would imply a want of confidence in the Government, which the statements and hints of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that evening, if he had not misunderstood them, did not deserve. If, however, the hon. Member proposed the appointment of a Committee to follow up the plan of the Finance Committee, and consider what reductions could be made, he should have his cordial support. If the hon. Member pressed his Motion to a division, he would vote with him, although he hoped not to be called on to do so.Mr. Stanley
 was of opinion, that if the Finance Committee, with a mass of evidence before it, had not been allowed to prosecute the subject of reduction, there was no hope of any good from the establishment of another Committee. If the question were to be decided only with reference to the convenience of the Army, there would be no reduction; but it was not by the convenience of the Army that the question ought to be decided. He would say, that the Guards might be made available, and then some Regiments of the line might be diminished. He pressed on the attention of the House the propriety of making every reduction possible, and declared his intention to vote for the Amendment.Mr. Maberly
795 objected,
795Mr. Hume and Mr. Maberly
 said, the country was looking with the greatest anxiety for retrenchment, and he was convinced that the reductions proposed by his Majesty's Government would not at all satisfy the people, but would cause infinite disappointment throughout the country. He was sorry to hear the declaration from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he could not say at present that he should be able to come down to the House to propose any reduction of taxation.Mr. W. Duncombe
794793 said, he was one of those who had refrained from voting with the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) upon a former evening, though he had felt it impossible to vote against him. He had held a suspended opinion, founded upon the hope that his Majesty's Ministers would that evening have come
794793Mr. C. N. Pallmer
 rose amid cries of "question." He said he merely wished to express his belief that Ministers were anxious to make every reduction in their power, but he should be glad to know why there was a difference of six thousand men in the Estimates of 1822 and 1830?Mr. Western
 confirmed the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman. The case had been referred to him officially when he was Attorney General, and he had given it as his opinion that a sentence of death might be commuted for perpetual imprisonment; but that any second commutation would be illegal.Sir C. Wetherell
a laugh734And it shall be the duty of the said Committee to begin making such reports as areso reduced in point of wealth and number, that they could not, and ought not, to bear the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, and to pay the wages of attendance according to the value of money at the present day, or that any corporation of any city or borough to which a Charter has been granted to send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament have not been elected by the Burgesses at large, but elected by themselves or in any other manner, whereby the city or borough is deprived of the power of electing a Member or Members to serve in Parliament: in all or any of such cases, it shall be the duty of the Chairman of the said Committee to report such fact to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and such report shall be deemed and taken to be the petition of the city or borough to which it relates, to be relieved of the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, or where there has been a franchise by Charter to such city or borough, granted by the Crown or by Parliament, such report shall be deemed and taken to be a forfeiture of such franchise upon the ground of misuser, and it shall be the duty of such Secretary of State to announce in the Gazette that under and by virtue of this Act, such city or borough has ceased to send a Member of Members to serve in Parliament. observed, that he had omitted to mention that before he had taken the step which he had adopted, he had taken the advice of a very eminent pleader, who was a Member of a Committee of which he was also a Member. That Gentleman had reminded him of the instance of Sir James Graham. The Committee on which they were sitting was a Gas-Light Committee; the hon. Member, when he (Mr. Harvey) asked him if he thought there would be any objection to the step which he contemplated, on the ground that a Mem-
a laugh734And it shall be the duty of the said Committee to begin making such reports as areso reduced in point of wealth and number, that they could not, and ought not, to bear the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, and to pay the wages of attendance according to the value of money at the present day, or that any corporation of any city or borough to which a Charter has been granted to send a Member or Members to serve in Parliament have not been elected by the Burgesses at large, but elected by themselves or in any other manner, whereby the city or borough is deprived of the power of electing a Member or Members to serve in Parliament: in all or any of such cases, it shall be the duty of the Chairman of the said Committee to report such fact to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and such report shall be deemed and taken to be the petition of the city or borough to which it relates, to be relieved of the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, or where there has been a franchise by Charter to such city or borough, granted by the Crown or by Parliament, such report shall be deemed and taken to be a forfeiture of such franchise upon the ground of misuser, and it shall be the duty of such Secretary of State to announce in the Gazette that under and by virtue of this Act, such city or borough has ceased to send a Member of Members to serve in Parliament.Mr. Harvey
hear, hear733Be it therefore further enacted, that as soon as the said Committee shall have ascertained the fact that any city or borough shall have fallen into decay, and ceased to be such populous and wealthy place, as, according to this Act was originally intended to bear the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, or that such city or borough shall by any means have fallen into a state that the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, is become a proprietary interest, or is absolutely in the power and at the command of any one individual, or of a few individuals, whether sole or corporate, or that such return at the last election was obtained by means of money given to the electors, or that the electors of such city or borough areAnd whereas from the most ancient times such qualifications have been required on the part of those who are to elect the said Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses, as should secure, as far as human wisdom could secure, the independent exercise of such important rights, and therefore the right of voting for Citizens and Burgesses, where there was no charter or custom to the contrary, was limited to all Householders within the same, paying scot and lot,wages have been fixed by Act of Parliament, and ought to be paid according to the difference and in the value of money at the present day:llll732And whereas the exact amount, of suchde expensis militum,And whereas the first Writs de expensis militum,And whereas it never was contemplated by the law that any City or Borough that had fallen into decay, and was unable to bear the burthen of sending Members to the House of Commons, and of paying them the wages of their attendance, should by any art, decree, or contrivance, fall into the power of a few persons or of a single individual to cause the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, and therefore no method is pointed out by the law of putting an end to such abuse, except upon the petition of the said City or Borough, to be relieved of the burthen of sending Members to Parliament:And whereas, it is an undoubted and established principle that all Charters of Franchise may be forfeited by mis-user or non-user:Corporations or Corporate Bodies, so that in some cases they have been, and now are elected from persons not resident in or connected with the towns or places to which the said Corporations or Corporate Bodies belong; and in other cases they are elected by each other, that is to say, by the Corporation or Corporate Body itself, the inhabitants or citizens of such towns or places having no voice or influence in such elections:731And whereas, certain Corporations or Corporate Bodies do possess the right of franchise by Charter, and do by virtue of the King's Writ, return Members to serve in the Commons' House of Parliament; and whereas such Corporations or Corporate Bodies were, at the time of granting such Charters and Rights of Enfranchisement, composed of the most respectable persons resident in the towns or places to which such Corporations or Corporate Bodies belong, and the members of such Corporations or Corporate Bodies were for the most part chosen or elected into office by the Inhabitants of such towns or places, out of the most discreet and respectable of the townsmen or inhabitants of such towns or places: And whereas, by the lapse of time and from other causes, many of such towns and places have fallen into decay, and abuses have taken place in the mode of election of suchtinguishing the number of resident Electors from the number of non-resident Electors, and stating the nature of the rights of voting in such City or Borough; and if necessary the said Committee shall call the said Officer before them, together with all books or papers in his possession relating to the same, and in like manner shall call before them and examine upon oath the said Officers and any other person or persons having, or claiming to have, any interest in the Election of the said Members, or any knowledge concerning the same.730That it shall be the duty of this Committee, in the first place, to order by any letter or paper writing signed by their Chairman, the Sheriffs of the different Counties, or the Returning Officer of every City and Borough in the United Kingdom, to report to the said Committee the number of Electors for the choosing of Members to sit in the House of Commons for the said City or Borough, dis-That immediately after the passing of this Act, and in every subsequent Session within ten days after the assembling of Parliament for the despatch of business, a Committee shall be appointed by ballot or lot in the usual manner, consisting of twenty-one Members of the Commons' House of Parliament, with full power to do all things required by this Act, and the said Committee shall be called the Reform Committee, and shall retain its power till the prorogation of the Parliament in which it shall have been appointed:Be it therefore enacted by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same,And whereas for the accomplishment of the great ends and important objects of this Act, it is expedient that a Committee of the House of Commons be forthwith appointed in the manner, and with the powers, hereinafter mentioned: said, he thanked the hon. Member for Staffordshire for the candid manner in which he had yesterday evening communicated to him his intention of presenting this petition. Whatever other sentiments the House might entertain respecting the letter in question, they could not consider it defective in candour and openness. As to the petition, until he heard on the authority of the House itself that professional persons engaged in that branch of the profession to which he devoted himself were to be interdicted from pursuing the most respectable part of it, if they happened to be Members of the House of Commons, he should not believe that such was the law. He admitted frankly and at once that the statement in the letter, as it respected himself, was true. If it were declared to be contrary to the law of Parliament, no one would bow more readily than himself to that decision. But the question was one of much greater importance than as it affected him individually. The consideration of it ought to be co-existent with the consideration of a very broad species of reform. Whatever principle on the subject the House might
hear, hear733Be it therefore further enacted, that as soon as the said Committee shall have ascertained the fact that any city or borough shall have fallen into decay, and ceased to be such populous and wealthy place, as, according to this Act was originally intended to bear the burthen of sending a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, or that such city or borough shall by any means have fallen into a state that the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, is become a proprietary interest, or is absolutely in the power and at the command of any one individual, or of a few individuals, whether sole or corporate, or that such return at the last election was obtained by means of money given to the electors, or that the electors of such city or borough areAnd whereas from the most ancient times such qualifications have been required on the part of those who are to elect the said Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses, as should secure, as far as human wisdom could secure, the independent exercise of such important rights, and therefore the right of voting for Citizens and Burgesses, where there was no charter or custom to the contrary, was limited to all Householders within the same, paying scot and lot,wages have been fixed by Act of Parliament, and ought to be paid according to the difference and in the value of money at the present day:llll732And whereas the exact amount, of suchde expensis militum,And whereas the first Writs de expensis militum,And whereas it never was contemplated by the law that any City or Borough that had fallen into decay, and was unable to bear the burthen of sending Members to the House of Commons, and of paying them the wages of their attendance, should by any art, decree, or contrivance, fall into the power of a few persons or of a single individual to cause the return of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, and therefore no method is pointed out by the law of putting an end to such abuse, except upon the petition of the said City or Borough, to be relieved of the burthen of sending Members to Parliament:And whereas, it is an undoubted and established principle that all Charters of Franchise may be forfeited by mis-user or non-user:Corporations or Corporate Bodies, so that in some cases they have been, and now are elected from persons not resident in or connected with the towns or places to which the said Corporations or Corporate Bodies belong; and in other cases they are elected by each other, that is to say, by the Corporation or Corporate Body itself, the inhabitants or citizens of such towns or places having no voice or influence in such elections:731And whereas, certain Corporations or Corporate Bodies do possess the right of franchise by Charter, and do by virtue of the King's Writ, return Members to serve in the Commons' House of Parliament; and whereas such Corporations or Corporate Bodies were, at the time of granting such Charters and Rights of Enfranchisement, composed of the most respectable persons resident in the towns or places to which such Corporations or Corporate Bodies belong, and the members of such Corporations or Corporate Bodies were for the most part chosen or elected into office by the Inhabitants of such towns or places, out of the most discreet and respectable of the townsmen or inhabitants of such towns or places: And whereas, by the lapse of time and from other causes, many of such towns and places have fallen into decay, and abuses have taken place in the mode of election of suchtinguishing the number of resident Electors from the number of non-resident Electors, and stating the nature of the rights of voting in such City or Borough; and if necessary the said Committee shall call the said Officer before them, together with all books or papers in his possession relating to the same, and in like manner shall call before them and examine upon oath the said Officers and any other person or persons having, or claiming to have, any interest in the Election of the said Members, or any knowledge concerning the same.730That it shall be the duty of this Committee, in the first place, to order by any letter or paper writing signed by their Chairman, the Sheriffs of the different Counties, or the Returning Officer of every City and Borough in the United Kingdom, to report to the said Committee the number of Electors for the choosing of Members to sit in the House of Commons for the said City or Borough, dis-That immediately after the passing of this Act, and in every subsequent Session within ten days after the assembling of Parliament for the despatch of business, a Committee shall be appointed by ballot or lot in the usual manner, consisting of twenty-one Members of the Commons' House of Parliament, with full power to do all things required by this Act, and the said Committee shall be called the Reform Committee, and shall retain its power till the prorogation of the Parliament in which it shall have been appointed:Be it therefore enacted by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same,And whereas for the accomplishment of the great ends and important objects of this Act, it is expedient that a Committee of the House of Commons be forthwith appointed in the manner, and with the powers, hereinafter mentioned:Mr. D. W. Harvey
 gave great credit to the hon. Gentleman for the candour and frankness with which he had expressed himself. He had not determined whether to move the reference of the Petition to a Select Committee, or to the Committee of Privileges. At present he would merely move that the Petition be printed.Mr. Littleton
 said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that he had any interest in the Coventry Canal. In other Canal Bills, however, he had certainly had an interest.Mr. Littleton
And whereas it is highly expedient and necessary that all such abuses should be reformed, and the Commons of England restored to their due and undoubted share in the Legislature, and also that the reformation of such long existing abuses should be brought about with all due care, and in the most rational, just, and considerate manner:And whereas all such things and doings are in direct contradiction to the spirit and meaning of the law, a disgrace and scandal to Parliament, subversive of the rights and liberties of the people, and of the just prerogative and interest of the Crown, rendering it impossible for the King to conduct the government of the country without being dependent on a system of corruption and intrigue, highly detrimental to the safety, honour, and welfare of this kingdom; and whereas the continuance of such abuses would be treason against the people and little short of treason against the King:single individual, and such individual is, in many instances, a Peer of Parliament, and thus the returns of many Citizens and Burgesses to serve in the House of Commons have become the subject of sale and barter for money, whereby any foreign prince or potentate may, by the mere power of money, and in some instances actually has, purchased for his friends or agents, seats in the House of Commons of England:728And whereas in consequence of the departure from the spirit and meaning of the law, the election of Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses, is often attended with canvassing, solicitations, and even bribes, on the part of the candidate, and with scenes of drunkenness and corruption on the part of the electors, disgraceful to both parties, and highly detrimental to the community at large; and in other cases such elections are entirely under the command of aAnd whereas when the right of voting was annexed to some tenement, house, or spot of ground where a house had stood, it was never contemplated that any number of these bur-gage-tenure estates should be purchased by one person in order to be conveyed to so many of his friends or dependants, and that thereby each should have a right to vole, and that so a command of the return of Members to serve in Parliament, and a proprietary interest therein, should be obtained:And whereas it has ever been considered a noble privilege which entitles the subject to a share in the Government and Legislature of the country, and such as he ought not to be denuded of by accidental or unforeseen circumstances, nor by craft and design:Knights, a representation in Parliament of the landholders or landed interest of the kingdom, and by the return of such Citizens and Burgesses a representation of the trade, and of all other interests within the realm: rose, to present a petition involving a Question of the Privileges of that House. The petition was from a
And whereas it is highly expedient and necessary that all such abuses should be reformed, and the Commons of England restored to their due and undoubted share in the Legislature, and also that the reformation of such long existing abuses should be brought about with all due care, and in the most rational, just, and considerate manner:And whereas all such things and doings are in direct contradiction to the spirit and meaning of the law, a disgrace and scandal to Parliament, subversive of the rights and liberties of the people, and of the just prerogative and interest of the Crown, rendering it impossible for the King to conduct the government of the country without being dependent on a system of corruption and intrigue, highly detrimental to the safety, honour, and welfare of this kingdom; and whereas the continuance of such abuses would be treason against the people and little short of treason against the King:single individual, and such individual is, in many instances, a Peer of Parliament, and thus the returns of many Citizens and Burgesses to serve in the House of Commons have become the subject of sale and barter for money, whereby any foreign prince or potentate may, by the mere power of money, and in some instances actually has, purchased for his friends or agents, seats in the House of Commons of England:728And whereas in consequence of the departure from the spirit and meaning of the law, the election of Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses, is often attended with canvassing, solicitations, and even bribes, on the part of the candidate, and with scenes of drunkenness and corruption on the part of the electors, disgraceful to both parties, and highly detrimental to the community at large; and in other cases such elections are entirely under the command of aAnd whereas when the right of voting was annexed to some tenement, house, or spot of ground where a house had stood, it was never contemplated that any number of these bur-gage-tenure estates should be purchased by one person in order to be conveyed to so many of his friends or dependants, and that thereby each should have a right to vole, and that so a command of the return of Members to serve in Parliament, and a proprietary interest therein, should be obtained:And whereas it has ever been considered a noble privilege which entitles the subject to a share in the Government and Legislature of the country, and such as he ought not to be denuded of by accidental or unforeseen circumstances, nor by craft and design:Knights, a representation in Parliament of the landholders or landed interest of the kingdom, and by the return of such Citizens and Burgesses a representation of the trade, and of all other interests within the realm:Mr. Littleton
l780779llll778lloud cheersllll777lllllllllllll.,776lll.,l775 proceeded to state the Army Estimates for the ensuing year. He should pursue the
l780779llll778lloud cheersllll777lllllllllllll.,776lll.,l775Sir H. Hardinge
l said, that the East India Company paid 60,000lSir Henry Hardinge
 observed, that although the hon. Member for Aberdeen had stated that the number of men in 1822 was only sixty-eight thousand, if he had recourse to his arithmetic, and added the Veteran establishment and the colonial corps, which were not included in the Estimates for that year, he would probably find the number in 1822 was upwards of seventy-five thousand.Sir H. Hardinge
 suggested, that as the number of men was agreed to, probably the hon. Member for Montrose would have no objection to go on with the other resolutions, for their pay.Sir H. Hardinge
loud cries of hear, hear790hearhear said, he should certainly vote for the Amendment. He found it difficult to persuade himself that five thousand men were necessary for the preservation of the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, [loud cries of hear, hear790hearhearMr. Labouchere
lHear, and a laugh said, the vote of that night involved the question of whether the country were or were not to have any relief. Could any Member of that House say that his constituent or constituents, if he had more than one [lHear, and a laughMr. Hume
 then moved, that instead of eighty-eight thousand eight hundred and forty-eight men, the number be seventy eight thousand eight hundred and forty-eight.Mr. Hume
 consented to alter his Amendment again, by substituting 76,164, instead of 61,164.Mr. Hume
, observing that the real number the Committee was called upon to vote for was eighty-one thousand, one hundred and sixty-four men only, he should alter his amendment to seventy-one thousand, one hundred and sixty-four. He said that in the year 1821 he had divided the Committee seventy-five times on the Army Estimates, as the noble Lord (Palmerston) well knew, for it had interrupted his parties; yet at the end of the Session, not one farthing of the expenditure was reduced. But an address to his Majesty was carried, and in two months after thirteen thousand men were reduced; and in the following year, 1822, the number was only sixty eight thousand, eight hundred. Now, however, the number was three-thousand more. He held this out to the House as a precedent.Mr. Hume
hear said, if the Committee were not disposed to listen to the observations of his hon. and gallant friend, he should move and divide upon it, that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again. If a full assemblage of the House such as that were not disposed to listen to the well-founded objections which his hon. and gallant friend had to offer to the Estimates then on the Table, the only remedy left was to move, that progress be reported. He appealed to the Chairman of the Committee, to keep the peace—He appealed to hon. Members for decency's sake to listen to what might be urged; and he hoped the hon. Members near him would support him in moving to postpone the consideration of the Estimates till the House could meet in a better spirit, and more disposed to listen to the dictates of common sense and common decency, and the obvious suggestions of duty in promoting economy, [hearMr. Hume
lhearllll759lhear, and a laugh.lhear, hearhear, hear.758lllllllllll757hearlllllllllllll756lllllhear, hear.lllll, in continuation, said, he was quite aware of that as well as of the fact that Ministers were in the habit of using the Estimates or the balance sheets as best suited their purpose. Now he begged to call the attention of the House to the condition they were in in the years 1822 and 1823. In the year 1822 the total expenditure for Army, Navy, Miscellaneous, and Extraordinaries was 16,000,000lhearllll759lhear, and a laugh.lhear, hearhear, hear.758lllllllllll757hearlllllllllllll756lllllhear, hear.lllllMr. Hume
 said, that if this fact were contradicted, he must beg that the balance sheet be read.Mr. Hume
ll said, that either he must have explained himself very imperfectly, or the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer must have strangely misunderstood him. He had never maintained the opinions attributed to him by the right hon. Gentleman. What he had said was, that no adequate reduction could be effected on those items—that nothing could be thus done which would afford the people relief; nor was he in the least disposed to retract this assertion. He would not acknowledge he was mistaken. In the first place, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had made an erroneous statement. He (Mr. Goulburn) said the present Estimates were lower than any since the year 1804; but he (Mr. Hume) found that so far was this from being the case, that the reduction was not that of one year, but of a series of years. He hoped, therefore, the House would not suffer itself to be led away by the erroneous statements of the right hon. Gentleman. Many of his assertions were more erroneous; as, for instance, he had stated that the Estimates of this year were 200,000llMr. Hume
, in explanation, said he knew the colonial corps were, in many cases, a set of the greatest outcasts in the Army; but he asked if the East India colonial troops were so bad, or if it were not practicable to adopt the system, without the necessity of officering the regiments in the manner alluded to?Colonel Davis
 congratulated Ministers, that the well-applied exertions of the noble Duke at their head had placed the country in such a situation, that even if much larger savings were made it could look an enemy in the face without apprehension. Thirty or forty years ago it had been said that the Army of England was the ridicule of the Continent, but now it was at once a source of terror and admiration. With regard to our colonies, an important saving might be effected, for the best of all reasons—because they were not worth keeping at their present expense. Most hon. Members seemed afraid to look the National Debt in the face—it had grown to such a giant size, that it certainly was not a pleasant object of contemplation; but we could not make it less by not venturing to estimate its height. He admitted that it was advisable to have a small available surplus, but it was mere folly to devote it, under the delusion of a Sinking Fund, to the supposed payment of a debt exceeding seven hundred millions. Instead of these vain attempts to reduce the Debt, the wisest plan would be to endeavour to increase the comforts of the people.Mr. W. Smith
hear, hear.hearhear, hear761hear, hearhear allowed, that the reduction exceeded his expectations, and he gave the Administration credit for wishing to reduce the expenditure of the country to the utmost possible limits, consistent with what they deemed the efficient maintenance of the Civil and Military Establishments. [hear, hear.hearhear, hear761hear, hearhearSir E. Knatchbull
hear792hear, hear791 wished to say a few words, in consequence of what had been; stated by some hon. Members in the course of the debate. The hon. Gentleman opposite said, that the Canadas were governed upon a garrison system. To show that was not the fact, it was sufficient to state that the Military force there now was the same as in 1792, though the population had considerably increased since that time, and the possessions of the Crown had been enlarged, not by the addition of new territory, but by the bringing into cultivation that which had lain waste and neglected. We had since then had a quarrel in that quarter of the world, and it was obviously necessary to maintain our Military establishment there at least upon the scale of 1792. With respect to the case of the officers of Militia mentioned by the hon. Member for St. Michael, all he (Sir G. Murray) could, state to the House regarding it at present was this—that the case of these officers had been referred to the present Governor,
hear792hear, hear791Sir George Murray
hear, hear.786 approved of the silence preserved by the right hon. Gentleman on this subject, and observed, that if it were once known the saving was to be applied to the reduction of taxation, all
hear, hear.786Sir John Wrottesley
 remarked that there were four regiments of Guards in this country always ready for foreign service.Sir H. Vivian
 defended the Estimates, and contended that the Cavalry, the effective services of which had recently been very apparent, were reduced as low as it was possible to reduce a force which could not easily be again raised if once disbanded.Sir H. Vivian
hearhear, hear, after complimenting the lucid analysis of intricate accounts produced by the Secretary at War, observed, that he did not think the number of men for the Colonies too large, although it might be another question whether it were expedient to retain so many Colonies. [hearhear, hearSir R. Wilson
hear787, as a military man of some standing, and as one who had some knowledge of the Colonies, felt himself bound to say, he did not think they could do with a single regiment of the line less than the number they possessed The hon. Member for Worcester had made some observations on the number of men kept up for the Colonies, but he recollected well that the hon. Member, and a number of friends whom he saw around him, had, in 1822, complained of the miseries to which regiments were subjected by remaining so many years abroad without relief. A better system had since been adopted, and the regiments were regularly relieved. Before that, however, it was not unusual for a regiment of the line to rot away in the West Indies, or to remain fifty years in the East; but there were no soldiers now who could not claim relief after being a fixed time abroad, and was not entitled to remain five years and a half at home. How, he would ask, were these regulations to be preserved, and these regiments to be relieved, unless they had a competent force at home? The hon. Member for Worcester had recommended the use of the colonial regiments, to save the expense of troops of the line. He (Sir Ronald) had seen a good deal of these colonial troops, and a more useless body of men he never knew in any country. It had been recommended to them to incorporate the officers of the line with the colonial troops; but he thought the experiment would be useless. They had the 6th regiment, the African corps, and the West-India corps; but although those regiments contained many highly honourable men, it was found, in too many instances, that
hear787Sir Ronald Ferguson
 concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that five thousand men might be spared; but if the Amendment were pressed to the extent of ten thousand, he should vote against it.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, that he should be very willing to vote for a reduction of five thousand men, but he could not concur with his hon. friend in thinking so many as ten thousand could be reduced.Lord Althorp
 thought the roops of the line might be reduced; and although those of the colonies were not so good, in the present state of the country they might be found sufficient. If the Amendment were pressed, he should vote with his hon. friend.Lord Althorp
hear760hear, hearhear said, he would not withhold his praise from the reductions as far as they went; they certainly were greater than he expected, but yet he was bound to say they were not sufficient when he considered the distressed state of the country. [hear760hear, hearhearLord Althorp
789 said, he could not give a silent vote on the occasion, and he was anxious to state, that he could not consider it consistent with his public duty to vote for the Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. Member opposite. He was quite convinced of the necessity which existed for retrenchment and reduction in every quarter, in order if possible to relieve the distresses of the coun-
789Lord Palmerston
 trusted, that he might be excused if he added to what had fallen from the hon. Member who presented the Petition, his humble testimony of the worthiness of the class of persons from which it proceeded. He had enjoyed opportunities of knowing a large proportion of the respectable Jews of London, and could say with perfect truth, that a more charitable and industrious class of persons did not exist. But it was not on the ground of their charity or industry alone that they were entitled to ask for concession: he believed that a safer concession could not be granted than that which was sought by this Petition. He should hold himself prepared to assist the hon. Member in forwarding the views of the petitioners.Mr. Ward
799 said, two years ago, by the repeal of the Corporation and Test Acts, we separated the Church of England from the State: last year we separated the Protestant Religion from the Legislature by passing the Catholic Relief Bill: upon the latter occasion he had predicted that next year we should be called upon to separate Christianity itself from the State; and the present Petition bore out his prediction. He contended that whatever we had done with respect to Protestant dissent or Catholicism, we should at least preserve the connexion between Christianity and the Legislature inviolable. It appeared as if the honourable Member for the City of London contemplated the introduction of a Bill upon the subject of Jewish Disabilities; he (Sir R. Inglis) should regard the success of any Bill of that kind, as involving a separation of the last link that existed between the Legislature and the religion of the country. Not content with admission to the profession of the law, to corporate offices, &c., the Jews appeared, by their Petition, to demand admission to the highest executive situations in the State. It was not enough to say their number was small; it was well known that a small number of men, acting in concert, might exercise considerable influence, beneficial or otherwise, over the State. If Parliament were reformed, probably not one Jew could find his way into it (if eligible); but means existed at present, by which the entrance of Jews
799Sir R. Inglis
hear, hear796, in reply, stated that the present was not a fit occasion for entering upon a general discussion respecting the Admiralty Court. He could assure the hon. Baronet that the Reports to which he alluded should be attended to. He felt himself called upon to say, that after the
hear, hear796Mr. Peel
800 said, that Government had learned within the last few days (on the 12th of February), that the State of Georgia had lately passed an Act, imposing a quarantine of forty days upon vessels containing free persons of colour, and coming either from other States of the American Union or from foreign countries. The subject was now under consideration, having been referred to the King's Advocate, and he could not as yet speak explicitly upon
800Mr. Peel
 of the Exchequer having moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the Supply to be granted to his Majesty in Committee of Supply, the Speaker left the Chair.The Chancellor
801pseudol entered his protest against the extravagant character of the Estimates: it was disgraceful to go on voting away millions when the country was suffering so much from distress. However, his right hon. friend should experience no more opposition from him in the voting of the Estimates: he did not care a farthing how it went: the other night he had not been fairly listened to, still less supported, when he attempted to go into the subject. He had no doubt, if the hon. Member for Cumberland had brought forward his Motion of disapprobation relative to the recent appointment of Treasurer of the Navy, that there would have been a large division against that appointment, because it was a million to one that any of those who might vote against the conduct of Ministers on this point would ever stand a chance of getting into the office; but as to the Army and Navy Estimates, the number who were interested in the question, remotely or directly, was so great as invariably to secure Ministers a large majority. When the House came to vote upon an office of 2,000801pseudolColonel Davies
vena porta,*****hear, hear806hear, hearhearhear, hear said, that he was fearful that in any observations he might make against the Ministers, his opposition might be, as it had been, attributed to factious motives. He begged however, once for all, to deny that charge most unequivocally. If that party which was generally known by the appellation of "Brunswickers" were to obtain the reins of power, and were to propose the repeal of the Catholic measure which passed last year, he would oppose such a proposition as stoutly as he had opposed the measure itself. [vena porta,*****hear, hear806hear, hearhearhear, hearThe Marquis of Blandford
hear agreed that the retrenchments proposed by the Ministers were very small, but he did not think with the noble Marquis (Blandford) that the people would be at all disappointed, because he believed that the people had long since abandoned all hope of relief from those who called themselves their representatives. He thought that the Army Estimates were the best subject of any for reduction. [hearSir R. Heron
 said, that if the Finance Committee had been re-appointed, this subject would have been properly investigated, and the House would never have come to such votes as those to which it came on the last evening. They could now only make observations upon the Estimates,—they could not examine them. He contended that nothing could be more indefensible than to call upon the country to pay the East-India Company for twenty-thousand men. Great saving might also be made in the mode of paying general officers, and that without reducing their pay one sixpence, which he was not anxious to do. It was, however, of no use to make any statements upon the subject, because some gallant officer opposite would get up and contradict them, and no argument could be effectual in the teeth of a majority.Mr. Maberly
cheers821hear, hearcheershearhear, hear820hear, hearhear, hearhear819hear, hearhearcheers and laughterl818 said, he had no doubt but his right hon. friend the Secretary at War would be enabled to give the Committee a satisfactory explanation with respect to the details comprised in the latter part of the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. Member for Montrose. But in the preceding part of that speech the hon. Member had indulged in some observations of a very different nature, which he could not listen to without emotion and astonishment, as they were of a character such as had been never before uttered, within his recollection, in that independent and honourable assembly. When he heard the extraordinary language employed by the hon. Gentleman, he could not help thinking that the speaker stood before them in the uneasy character of a disappointed prophet, who desired some compensation for his inconsiderate declaration, that he expected no reduction
cheers821hear, hearcheershearhear, hear820hear, hearhear, hearhear819hear, hearhearcheers and laughterl818Mr. Secretary Peel
hearhear, hear professed himself unable to understand what the hon. Member had intended to convey if his interpretation was erroneous. He had certainly stated 'that when Ministers, as in the late instance, were capable of procuring a corrupt majority, no other resource remained for the people, except an appeal to arms.' Language such as this was, in his opinion, open to no inference but. one. But if that address to the passions of a suffering people should be answered by their raising the standard of rebellion, what alternative, he demanded, would remain for Government but that of meeting it with prompt, powerful, and successful resistance? In that event, he apprehended, the hon. Member could hardly reconcile to his own conscience his declaration from his place in Parliament, that he should rejoice to hear of such resistance. [hearhear, hearMr. Peel
822 said, he had always heard that a total loss of temper indicated a consciousness of a defective cause, and he could not refrain from applying the
822Colonel Davies
laughter disclaimed having made the slightest allusion to the speech of the gallant officer, as he was not present on the occasion referred to, and might not have remembered it even if he were. [laughterMr. Peel
hear proceeded to state his opinion that few of the majority in question had heard the arguments adduced, or were acquainted with the merits of the subject. He thought that it was unnecessary for the right hon. Gentleman to tax his hon. friend, the Member for Montrose, with having been absent during the earlier part of the evening, as no Member of that House was more regular in his attendance. He certainly, for one, felt no inclination to spirit up the suffering people to acts of violence, [hearColonel Davies
 gave credit to Ministers for a sincere desire to economise; but the question of the necessity of maintaining the establishments, at their present point, remained. He felt satisfied that a considerable saving might still be made in the colonies; and sure he was that whatever reduction could be effected, in the present state of the country, ought to be attempted without delay.Mr. Denison
831 said, that he had before felt satisfied that the hon. Member would, in his cooler and more candid moments, disavow or explain what fell from him. The event had shown that he had not made a false estimate of the hon. Gentleman's right feeling. He did not discuss the question of responsibility; he did not put any case hypothetically, but he thought he heard the hon. Gentleman say, that the
831Mr. Secretary Peel
 entreated the hon. Member not to waste the time of the House by pressing his Amendment to a division. It was but too obvious that nothing could be done in that House, and he was much inclined to dread that a convulsion, such as that described by the hon. Member, must ensue.Mr. Maberly
 complained of the practice of keeping up Inspectors of Militia at the Ionian Isles, and paying them also as residents, although there was not a militia corps in the Islands at present, or at any other time.Colonel Davies
 could not see why the Ionian Isles should not pay all their own. expenses. It was the same, however, with all the colonies. The Cape of Good Hope, under the Dutch Government, paid all its own expenses; but the moment we took possession of it, the expenses commenced.Colonel Davies
l said, that if he remembered rightly, the hon. Gentleman, when he sat on his (Mr. Maberly's) side of the House, always disapproved of the office of Paymaster-General. As to the importance of the office with a reference to the care of the public money, he need only refer to the evidence of Mr. Serjeant (a man of great respectability) before the Finance Committee. In answer to an inquiry what sum he could take away from the office, and how long he could keep it without the risk of detection, Mr. Serjeant stated that he thought he could take away 250,000lMr. Maberly
 said, in explanation, that he had only stated so hypothetically.Mr. Maberly
 said, the right hon. Gentleman had done no more than his duty in opening the doors of his office to Mr. Abbott, who was sent by the Treasury; and he ought not on that account to take any merit to himself.Mr. Maberly
 denied that he had made a random assertion, and would afterwards prove what he had asserted. He trusted to his own memory quite as much as to that of the right hon. Gentleman. Other gentlemen, as well as Mr. Serjeant, had given the same evidence; and it was the duty of the right hon. Gentleman, as well as that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to take care that the public money could not be so disposed of.Mr. Maberly
838 admitted that he believed the memory of the bon. Gentleman was correct, and that
838The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 produced the evidence given before the Committee of Finance by Mr. Serjeant, and showed that his statement had been quite correct, and not a random statement, as asserted by the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. Maberly
 had understood Mr. Maberly to say, that the public money might be drawn without any check whatever, which was not quite correct. He had himself been wrong as to time.Mr. G. Damson
 said a few words in explanation. He complained of the diversity of contracts for the supply of Medicines to the public service occasioning a great additional expense, and giving rise to private jobbing. The Finance Committee had reprobated the system. He had no objection to the vote; but it required attention.Mr. Maberly
 supported the Amendment, on the ground of economy, and of the internal tranquillity of Ireland. He believed that the existence of the Constabulary force, which was in itself a Military force, was sufficient to justify a diminution of the Yeomanry force.Mr. S. Rice
 said, it was only doing bare justice to the hon. and learned Member for Clare, to declare that he had touched upon the subject of the Irish Yeomanry with a moderation which must be highly serviceable to his. view of the question. He was of opinion that any inconsiderate meddling with that body at the present moment would produce an irritation of feeling in Ireland, which it was desirable to avoid. He admitted that the time had at last arrived when this question ought to be looked at. He should be sorry if the hon. Member for Clare pressed his Amendment, for he had no objection to take the subject matter of it into immediate consideration.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that after such an admission from the organ of the Irish Government, he should suggest to his hon. and learned friend, the propriety of leaving the reduction in the hands of the Ministry.Mr. Rice
l, said, that in the speech which the hon. member for Aberdeen had delivered on a former evening, he had accused him of acting in contravention to the rule which Lord Lansdowne had laid down for the reduction of the Yeomanry corps. He appealed to his hon. friend the Member for Limerick, whether he had not strictly followed up the rule which had been left in the office by his noble predecessor. When Lord Lansdowne left office, the expense of the Yeomanry force amounted to 66,000l,Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that in his opinion there was no item in which reduction would be more justifiable than that now before the Committee; therefore, without dissenting from his right hon. friend as to the expediency of retaining these corps at the time he was in office, or without differing with the right hon. Secretary as to the high character of this body, he would yet vote for any reduction suggested by the hon. Gentleman.Mr. S. Rice
 said, he certainly was not prepared to assent to a reduction to the proposed amount. He begged to remind the House that breaches of the peace did in the manufacturing districts occasionally take place, under the pressure of distress; and therefore it was exceedingly necessary to maintain those corps in such neighbourhoods. With respect to the Cavalry corps, he thought they were, perhaps, the more efficient of the two.Mr. Secretary Peel
843 said, that in his opinion, the Yeomanry corps were the worst possible corps that could be employed for putting down disturbances, and he entertained this feeling the more strongly when he looked back to what had taken place at
843Mr. R. Gordon
hear, in reply, said, he had a much higher opinion of the Yeomanry. There were many Yeomanry officers in that House who would bear out his belief, that those men were to be depended on. If, however, any case should occur in which a corps proved itself not trust-worthy, or in any way misconducted itself, that then a reduction of that body should be at once effected. But he really thought Yeomanry corps were as much to be depended on as any other branch of the Service; and he was quite sure, if they received his Majesty's commands to quell any popular tumult, not one of them would fly from his colours, [hearMr. Peel
lhear agreed with the right hon. Secretary, that not one corps would misconduct itself, [lhearMr. G. Lamb
844 observed, that he understood the right hon. Secretary had, during his (Mr. Gordon's) absence, applied some severe language to the hon. Member for Montrose, for the appeal which that hon. Gentleman had made on behalf of the people to his Majesty's Government. The
844Mr. R. Gordon
 repeated, that if the Yeomanry were called on in aid of the public peace, he should have as high confidence in them as in the regular troops.Mr. Secretary Peel
 acknowledged and deplored the general distress; but he was quite sure that the Yeomanry would not misconduct themselves; he was himself a commander of one of those corps, and he could confidently assert that if called out there was not a man in it who would not do his duty.The Marquis of Chandos
 declared he was opposed to the grant. The necessity which occasioned the creation of those corps had passed away, the apprehension of foreign invasion having ceased to exist. He disagreed with the right hon. Secretary as to the expediency of maintaining them in manufacturing districts. A body of cavalry was generally stationed in those districts sufficient to put down all the rioters in England. He had no wish, however, to press the immediate reduction upon the right hon. Secretary, if he said he would take the question into consideration with a view to economy; if not, he should vote for the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman.Mr. Maberly
, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the laws relating to the preservation of Game said, it was his intention to propose a repeal of all former laws upon the subject, with a view to their being embodied into one Act; it was also his intention to propose, that any occupier of a number of contiguous acres should be allowed to sport over them, on obtaining the permission of his landlord. He also wished that a conviction for poaching should take place before two Magistrates, instead of one, as at present; and, even then, he would afford the right of appeal to the Quarter Sessions. He would also permit the sale of Game, under the same provisions and restrictions as those suggested by the present Secretary to the Board of Control.The Marquis of Chandos
 could not intend any tiling disrespectful to the Yeomanry, in whose ranks he had had the honour of serving, but he thought that the time had at length arrived when, in point of economy, they ought to be disbanded.Mr. Brownlow
 was most ready to withdraw his Amendment, and would prefer the proposition for the Reduction of the Yeomanry coming from the other side of the House rather than from himself. He denied every intention to traduce the Yeomanry of Ireland. When he was first called to the bar he was one of their number, and had moved that they should extend their services to every part of Ireland. He hoped that nothing which bad fallen from him that night would have the slightest tendency to embitter the quarrel between the two parties in the north of Ireland.Mr. O'Connell
dsl rose to object to the vote, so far as related to Ireland. He thought that the Army in Ireland, during what he might, perhaps, be permitted to call the late civil commotions of that country, had performed its duty, from the highest officer down to the lowest subaltern, in the most exemplary and praiseworthy manner. He suggested to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that it was necessary to recollect that a large portion of that Army had been employed in the North of Ireland for purposes into which he would not enter. The conduct of the Yeomanry in that part of the country he could not praise. It was supposed to have been kept up for purposes not of protection, but of oppression. He submitted that it was a description of force which might be well spared. In the province of Connaught, where the population was almost entirely Catholic, the amount of Yeomanry was but an unit. In the province of Munster it was only a decimal in the province of Leinster it was a hundred; but in the province of Ulster, where the population was chiefly Presbyterian, it was a thousand. If the Yeomanry were diminished there, the Army might be diminished too; for the presence of the Army was wanted for no other object than to protect the people against the outrages of the Yeomanry. For these reasons he should move that this Vote be reduced to 50,812dslMr. O'Connell
 said, that whenever the Bill should be brought in, he should take the opinion of the House upon the question of abolishing the Game Laws entirely.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to say one word. Instead of disapproving of the Petition in consequence of the principle which it involved, he thought it exactly what the House ought to approve of. Instead of separating the Legislature from Christianity, by conceding the claims of the Jews, we should prove ourselves still more Christian by doing as we would be done by, and carrying into effect the principle of perfect freedom of conscience,—a principle that already manifested its beneficial tendency, and which would be the more beneficial the more widely it was extended.Mr. O'Connell
 asked the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether his Majesty's Government had been apprised of a law recently passed by the State of Georgia, imposing quarantine upon foreign vessels having on board free men of colour. By this regulation it would seem as if British subjects, not being white, were considered by the State of Georgia as a sort of pestilential objects: he wished to know whether steps had been taken to protect the rights of such individuals?Mr. O'Connell
l complained of Mr. Maberly making random assertions. He had stated that Mr. Serjeant had given in evidence before the Committee that he and two or three others might connive and draw out a sum of 250,000lMr. G. Dawson
l reminded the House that his right hon. friend, as President of the Board of Chelsea Pensioners, had to administer a sum of 1,241,000lSir H. Hardinge
 denied that the only reduction which had taken place in the Staff was in the Medical Staff. With respect to the Commander of the Forces, his pay was not greater than it was in 1792, when Lord Amherst held that situation.Sir H. Hardinge
ds moved, that a sum of 3,015,3332. 2dsSir H. Hardinge
833ll said, that whatever hon. Members might think or do with respect to these Estimates, it was his duty to offer every explanation of their items which might be demanded from him, and he was sure it would be found they were not open to the imputation of extravagance thrown out against them by the hon. Member for Aberdeen. The hon. Member complained that no reductions had been made in the Staff. Now the fact was, that an Assistant Adjutant-General and Assistant Quarter-Master-General had been reduced in Canada, Nova-Scotia, and several other places, and the whole reductions of the Staff, within the last two years, amounted, along with contingencies, to 29,000833llSir H. Hardinge
 said, he had never once alluded to the Life Guards.Sir H. Hardinge
82519,000The Foreign Half-pay, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by149,951The Half-pay, by
149,951The Half-pay, by41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by
41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by56,000The Pay of General Officers, by
56,000The Pay of General Officers, by6,005The Military College, by
6,005The Military College, by11,936Medicines, by
11,936Medicines, by25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by
25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by149,951The Half-pay, by
149,951The Half-pay, by41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by
41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by56,000The Pay of General Officers, by
56,000The Pay of General Officers, by6,005The Military College, by
6,005The Military College, by11,936Medicines, by
11,936Medicines, by25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by
25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, bylllll.824lds823d said, he should not be induced to swerve from the course which he had already prescribed for himself, or be influenced by the inflammatory invectives of the hon. Member for Montrose, to submit any measure which would operate harshly on the soldier. The suggestion for lowering their pay was repugnant, he had no doubt, to the better feelings of the Committee, and its wisdom in point of policy was at least very dubious. Participating fully in the indignation, which the speech alluded to had excited in the mind of his right hon. friend, he should proceed to refute, as concisely as he could, the misrepresentations advanced in that speech. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken when he described the pay of the soldier as having been increased since former times. In the year 1795, the pay with an increase of 282519,000The Foreign Half-pay, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by149,951The Half-pay, by
149,951The Half-pay, by41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by
41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by56,000The Pay of General Officers, by
56,000The Pay of General Officers, by6,005The Military College, by
6,005The Military College, by11,936Medicines, by
11,936Medicines, by25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by
25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by
19,000The Foreign Half-pay, by149,951The Half-pay, by
149,951The Half-pay, by41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by
41,000The Full-pay of Retired Officers, by56,000The Pay of General Officers, by
56,000The Pay of General Officers, by6,005The Military College, by
6,005The Military College, by11,936Medicines, by
11,936Medicines, by25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by
25,052The Clerks of Public Departments, by£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, by
£20,354The Staff was less expensive this year than in 1822, bylllll.824lds823dSir H. Hardinge
803 said, that if he had understood the hon. Baronet correctly, the hon. Baronet was of opinion that eighty-eight thousand men, rank and file, were more than sufficient, and that in consequence of some alterations that had lately taken place, the number might be reduced by six thousand or seven thousand men. But how long was it since these alterations had taken place? He had had the honour of receiving, through the courtesy of the hon. Baronet, a book on Financial Reform, which had proceeded from the pen of the hon. Baronet. The book had only been published a few days, and in it the hon. Baronet stated that the
803Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that the office which he had the honour to hold (that of Paymaster-General) was a most ancient one. On looking back for the last hundred and twenty-five years, he found that it had been filled by some of the most distinguished persons who had taken a political part in the affairs of the country. Whether a better system of accounts might not be adopted in the office was a question upon which he would not enter. He administered the office as he found it. Referring to the accounts of the office for the last fifty years, he found that the public had not lost a single shilling of the money which had passed through that office. When the House recollected that during the" war hundreds of millions passed through the office, this was a fact of no small importance. Though the office which he held was not a very laborious one, yet it was one of great trust and responsibility. He had various duties to perform, which occupied a considerable portion of his time. Amongst the rest, he presided at the Board at Chelsea Hospital; and so constant was his attendance there, that since the prorogation of Parliament he had not had a single spare week to himself. The office at the present moment stood lower than at the time of Mr. Burke's great reform; for then there were two Pay-masters and two Deputies. It was painful for any man to talk of himself; but he was compelled to say, that he discharged the duties of his office, he was sure, conscientiously, and he hoped diligently. The House ought to be cautious in meddling with an arrangement which had secured such fidelity of service in the payment, through a number of years, of such very large sums.Mr. Calcraft
837, in continuation, went on to say that the doors of his office had been thrown open to Mr. Abbott, who had examined all the books, and preferred the system followed in his office to that of
837Mr. Calcraft
 denied having ever disapproved of the office of Paymaster-General.Mr. Calcraft
 declared, that so far was the office of Paymaster-General from being a sinecure, that not a day passed on which his presence at the office was not necessary. If he were not there, the business of the office must stand still.Mr. Calcraft
 did not claim any merit; he had only stated a fact.Mr. Calcraft
 admitted that he might have given his vote for a lumping resolution like that referred to by the hon. Gentleman, and that he might in that manner have voted for the reduction of the office of the Paymaster; but if the hon. Gentleman looked back at the whole of his conduct, he would find that he had always voted for the keeping up our establishments, as not too extravagant and not more than was necessary for the regular service of the country. He had always defended the Guards, for example. He could not think, therefore, that there was any inconsistency in his present vote and his having once voted for a lumping Motion of the hon. Gentleman.Mr. Calcraft
llldsdds thought, that the pay of the soldiers might be very advantageously reduced from the 1llldsddsMr. Monck
827, adverting to what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for the
827Mr. Hume
830cheers and laughtercheers and laughter829ll828ll replied, that that was no answer to his speech. The right hon. Gentleman had asserted that there was no increase in the number of officers, placing them above the standard of 1792, and as that force was not wanted for the Colonies, it might, he conceived, be easily reduced. He came prepared with the Returns, which was the only way of meeting official Gentlemen—for some of that class would admit nothing that was not signed officially, and others even sometimes forgot their own signatures, therefore what he should say was not without authority. From that Return, it appeared that the force of the Life Guards in 1792 was six hundred and seventy-eight, and in the year 1828 it was one thousand one hundred and forty-four; was not that an increase, and in the most expensive species of force? By another return he saw that each Life Guardsman cost the country 75830cheers and laughtercheers and laughter829ll828llMr. Hume
832llll objected to the sum as extravagant, and contended that it should be reduced to the amount paid in 1792. In the General Staff he found one Adjutant-General, one Deputy Adjutant-General, one Assistant Adjutant General at Head Quarters, and one Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General. Now he would ask, in the name of common sense, what necessity there was for such an establishment in the fifteenth year of peace? The pay, too, had been increased; was there any necessity for that? In the year 1805 the pay of the Adjutant-General was increased 500832llllMr. Hume
lll, in reply, said that all the reductions alluded to by the gallant officer produced no diminution of the amount of expenditure. The hon. Member then alluded to the expenses of the Commander-in -chief's office, which, in 1792, under Lord Amherst, were 846lllMr. Hume
, interrupting the right hon. Secretary, disavowed the inference which the right hon. Gentleman drew from his remarks, but he repeated that he was not inclined to retract a syllable of what he had said.Mr. Hume
lllllll817ls816dsdsddsd815lllldds814dssdllllll813ls.,ldslldsllSome cries of "order, order.812l811hear, and a laugh810hear, hearhear809hear, hearhear and laughterhear and laughter808 said, that he had been strongly
lllllll817ls816dsdsddsd815lllldds814dssdllllll813ls.,ldslldsllSome cries of "order, order.812l811hear, and a laugh810hear, hearhear809hear, hearhear and laughterhear and laughter808Mr. Hume
llll begged the House to recollect, that the hon. Baronet had stated, that out of 90,000llllMr. Hume
842 submitted to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department the propriety of reducing the amount of the English Yeomanry. Let them either be
842Mr. Hume
839llll had not forgot the return for which he had moved in 1821, nor that the expense of the office was then 5,180839llllMr. Hume
 repeated his statements with respect to the Medical Staff; and observed that although it might be true that the pay of the Commander of the Forces was not greater than in the time of Lord Amherst, the expense of the office had increased to the amount which he had already described.Mr. Hume
l835 wished to know why the office of Paymaster-General had not been reduced? He described the circuitous manner in which the Army was at present paid, and maintained that by a simpler and more economical arrangement that payment would be greatly facilitated. The salary of the Judge Advocate General had been raised in 1817, to meet the great increase of duty arising from the increase in the number of the Army. Now that the number was reduced, why was there not a correspondent decrease in that salary?
l835Mr. Hume
dslll845, looking round the House, said, he could not perceive one of six hon. Members who had declined supporting him in his Motion for a general reduction, pledging themselves that they would be present to watch the proceedings in the Committee upon each item of expenditure. He would not take it upon himself to say, whether these hon. Members had done their duty towards their constituents, but they certainly had not done their duty towards him; for, having promised him that they would attend, to judge on each individual vote, not one of them was to
dslll845Mr. Hume
798797, in rising to present a Petition from the Jews, observed, that the Petition he held in his hand was the first application that had for the last eighty years been made by the collective body of the Jewish community to that House, for the purpose of being restored to their rights as British subjects. It was a Petition from the Jewish community, being native-born subjects of this realm. It was signed by five hundred and ninety seven individuals, all of whom resided in or near the City of London, the most of whom were persons of high station, influence, and respectability: the others were wealthy and substantial tradesmen. The Petition stated that the enactments which were imposed with respect to the enjoyment of certain offices, namely, the acts of Abjuration and Supremacy, bore upon them with extreme hardship. He was not going to discuss whether or not the prayer of the Petition should be granted, he only wished to put it to the House to say whether it were not well entitled to their serious consideration. The House would do well to inquire what were the grievances complained of, and who were the parties that, suffered under them. With regard to the nature of the particular grievances, it was scarcely necessary to add any thing to the statements contained in the Petition. The operation of the Oath of Abjuration and of the Declaration contained in the 9th of the King, had the effect of totally excluding Jews from seats in Parliament, from the enjoyment of the elective franchise, from all corporate and government offices, from the profession of the law, and from many subordinate situations. He implored the House to recollect that the body of the act, the operation of which went to exclude the Jews from the enjoyment of civil and political privileges, had nothing to do with their community directly; that the tests were not directed against them individually; but it happened that the words "on the true faith of a Christian" had been introduced, and it consequently followed that Jews could not subscribe the Declaration in that form: to which he
798797Mr. R. Grant
 desired the Government to be cautious how they reduced a force in Ireland which had rendered such inestimable services to the country.Mr. Trant
 said, if the Yeomanry force could be spared, he should have no objection to the proposed reduction. He could not, however, submit to the insinuation of the hon. and learned Member for Clare, that disturbances had originated in Ireland from the conduct of the Yeomanry corps. As a proof that the Yeomanry corps in the north of Ireland had merited well of their country, he would merely state that the Insurrection Act had travelled through every country in Ireland, save the nine counties in the province of Ulster.Sir G. Hill
 said, that he was neither one of those who had attributed factious motives to the noble Marquis, nor did he approve the conduct of any who dealt in such imputations. There could be no doubt that every hon. Member had a right to give utterance to whatever opinion he entertained on public affairs, and he thought that that right was impeached as often as the expression of such opinions was attributed to any improper motives. The noble Marquis might be assured, therefore, that he (Sir G. Murray), widely as he differed from him, should never impute to him that he was actuated by factious motives. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Wrottesley) and which had been the occasion of his rising, he begged to observe that he believed the duty at Windsor, Kew, and Hampton-court, had always been performed by the Guards.Sir G. Murray
llllllllll said, that although they were called Inspectors of Militia, they were really residents, and paid as such. He thought, however, the number might be reduced. It had been said, that the Ionian Islands should be given up by this country or sold to some other power; but it might be well to recollect we were bound by treaties with Other Powers to occupy these islands, and to their inhabitants by treaty to afford them protection; and, whatever might be thought of the propriety of getting rid of them, he conceived that this was not the precise period, when the present unsettled state of Greece was considered, to agitate the question. At that moment, although it was said they paid none of their expenses, he could assure the House that those islands defrayed the whole of their civil charges, and 23,000llllllllllSir G. Murray
804 said, that the gallant officer had not accurately stated what he had said elsewhere. The gallant officer had stated that he (Sir H. Parnell) had admitted elsewhere that eighty-seven thousand men were the proper number for the force of this country. Now he had expressly stated that we had a right to infer, from a comparison between the expense of our military force now and what it was in the peace preceding the war of 1793, that the present expense was much too great. He had stated, moreover, that the Finance Committee had been of the same opinion, and that if the Committee had been re-appointed it would no doubt have recom-
804Sir H. Parnell
802llllllllllllll said, he wished to make a remark upon the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a former evening, as to the amount of our expenditure upon which reductions could be made. The right honourable Gentleman said, that the whole amount of public expenditure subject to diminution was 12,000,000802llllllllllllllSir H. Parnell
l836 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had made out no case to rebut the charge advanced by the Finance Committee; namely, that the office which he held was a sinecure office. The right hon. Gentleman's deputy told the Committee that he executed all the duties of his principal's office. It was, in his opinion, a serious objection to the establishment that the officers in it possessed too uncontrolled a command over the public money. The right hon. Gentleman's reference to the period when there were two Paymasters, was a common-place fallacy of justifying an existing abuse by
l836Sir H. Parnell
llllll was surprised that the hon. Member for Aberdeen should now find fault with the expense of his department, when he had called for a complete return concerning it in 1821, and was then satisfied. The expense of it was less now than it was then by 500llllllSir J. Beckett
805 was persuaded that our military force was too great, and that they ought to begin by reducing the number of men. He did not blame the Ministers for not making reductions,—it was the House of Commons that he blamed. It was the House that taxed the people, and not the Ministers. The Ministers brought down their Estimates, the House voted them, and when the Chancellor of the Exchequer afterwards came down with his Budget, the House might perhaps ask him to reduce the Taxes. The Chancellor of the Exchequer would of course reply, that that was not his place,—that he had only to find out ways and means. It was for the House, then, to make those reductions which the country needed. With respect to our military force, he had hoped now that there was a new and efficient police that the Guards might be done away with in the metropolis. He agreed, however, that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had, on a former evening, given a satisfactory explanation on this subject. The right hon. Secretary at War had stated that the number of battalions had not been increased since 1792, which was true; but the strength of the battalions had been increased. In 1792 a battalion consisted of about four hundred men: it now consisted of seven hundred and forty. In 1792 a regiment of Cavalry consisted of one hundred and ninety-six men; it now consisted of three hundred and five. He should propose that we should reduce our force by two battalions of Guards, by
805Sir John Wrottesley
 said a few words in explanation.Sir J. Wrottesley
 did not see the propriety of keeping one general officer at Portsmouth and another at PlymouthSir John Wrottesley
 complained of the practice of keeping four General Officers on full pay at the present moment.Sir John Wrottesley
, seeing the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department in his place, would take that opportunity of expressing a hope that the Report, which had been made with respect to the Admiralty Court in Ireland would not be allowed to remain on the Table without being acted upon.Sir J. Newport
ll826 said, it was alleged that it would be impossible to maintain the present high state of efficiency of the Army at a less expense than that stated in the Estimates presented. He believed that might be perfectly true; but he would ask the Committee whether the maintenance of that high state of efficiency were required? or, however desirable it might be, whether it were practicable to maintain that high degree of efficiency without inflicting upon the country an extent of distress which it was incapable of bearing? The right hon. Secretary opposite had said, that the proportion of Infantry as compared with Cavalry, was much greater in the British Army than in foreign Armies; that with us the infantry are as nine to one; while in foreign Armies they are as four to one; but the reason for that was obvious, the services on which our Army was employed being such as demanded a greater proportion of Infantry, therefore the Government had but small merit in adhering to a regulation convenient to themselves. As to the probability of our armies being again called on to perform duties which require an increased proportion of cavalry, he hoped that that time was not likely to return. He hoped that there was no
ll826Lord Althorp
848 admitted the propriety of decreasing the duty on Beer, but doubted the policy of increasing the Spirit duties. There was a great deal of spurious humanity abroad on this subject. Gentlemen liked to indulge in the luxury of wine, but viewed with severity the indulgence of the lower orders in spirits, the use of which was not merely a luxury and comfort, but
848Mr. R. Gordon
hear said, bull-baiting, cock-fighting, and the ring, were opposed, not merely because they tended to demoralize the lower ranks of society, but because they congregated together the worst and most dangerous characters. If the sports pursued at Newmarket—if fox-hunting produced similar results, he would be the first to assist in putting them down. He admitted all sumptuary laws were bad [hearColonel Davies
847hear, hear. said, it was his intention to move, on a future day, for the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the existing state of the Licensing System, with a view of ascertaining how far it might be possible to allow a free sale of Beer consistently with, a proper attention to the morals of the people, [847hear, hear.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
849s.s.s. rose to present a petition from certain West-India Planters, praying for a Reduction of the Duties upon Sugar and Rum. He was happy to be the organ chosen by that body to lay the petition before the House. When the House considered the extremely low prices of Sugar and Rum, they would feel that the West-India merchants had an extreme case of distress for the consideration of the House. The duty on sugar was 27849s.s.s.The Marquis of Chandos
primâ facie853bonusd.s.d.,s.s.d.s.s.ad valorems.s.852 said, that he had always abstained from unnecessarily troubling the House with his opinion upon this question; and having entertained the hope that something would have certainly been elicited from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, it was his intention to have remained silent upon the present occasion, but finding that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was about to permit the Petition to be laid upon the Table without comment or explanation, he felt himself bound to trouble the House with a few words. He thought the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was called upon to say something; to state, for example, whether the, West-Indian body had
primâ facie853bonusd.s.d.,s.s.d.s.s.ad valorems.s.852Mr. Bernal
854 begged to assure the noble Marquis (Chandos) and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bernal), that if he had forborne making any observations upon the subject of that petition, it was not from any want of respect towards them, or from any want of sym-
854The Chancellor of the Exchequer
855 reminded the House that it had been his lot, for the last two sessions, to recommend for adoption a reduction of the duty upon Sugar. The opinions which he had then professed were abundantly confirmed by the statements he had heard that night—by the practical experience with respect to the price of sugar—and by the distress existing in the West-India Islands. He should however wait for the Chancellor of the Exchequer's explanation with respect to the financial state of the country, and the reductions that might be contemplated in taxation; before he would
855Mr. C. Grant
 said, that as he had no wish to take the Ministers by surprise on this subject, he had informed them more than four months ago of the nature of the petition.The Marquis of Chandos
857 wished to take the opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman opposite a question relating to the admission of Slave evidence in the Courts of Justice in our Colonies. He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that when some time since he was about to introduce a Bill for that purpose, he was told that it would be unnecessary
857Mr. Brougham
 said, that before he proceeded with the Motion of which he had given notice, he wished to lay before the House a Petition which had been committed to his care from the inhabitants of the extensive and important town of Sheffield. The Petitioners complained, that several large, populous, and wealthy towns were at present excluded from the exercise of the Elective Franchise, whilst in very many instances that privilege was enjoyed by the inhabitants of small places of no importance, and was often exercised in an unworthy manner. The Petitioners therefore prayed that the Franchise might be extended to their town, and to such other populous, wealthy, and intelligent places.Lord John Russell
 expressed his cordial concurrence in the prayer of the petition. Mr. Marshall
859 said a that he would
859Mr. Stuart Wortley
hear, hear.870hearl.l.869868867866865l.l.;l.l.l.864hear, hear.863862861860hear, hear. moved that the three Orders of the Day, of March 19th, 1821, June 22nd, 1827, and 31st March, 1828, relative to Bills to transfer the Elective Franchise from Boroughs convicted of corruption, to Leeds, to Birmingham, and Manchester, should be entered as read. This was done, and his Lordship then addressed the House as follows:—Although I feel not, Sir, the smallest doubt both as to the justice and as to the expediency of the propositions which I am this night about to submit to the House, yet I do feel a considerable degree of apprehension that these propositions may not meet with that success which I should wish to see conferred upon them by a majority of this House. I am aware that there are many persons who are actuated by perfectly conscientious motives, but who have such a dread of Reform, to which the old and accustomed epithets of "wild and visionary," have often been attached, that they view with suspicion any Motion which has Reform for its object. To them I will only say, that if ever there was a proposition for Reform that was not wild and visionary, but that was practicable in its object, practicable in the grounds on which it went, and practicable in its results, it is that which I am about this night to propose to the House. [hear, hear.870hearl.l.869868867866865l.l.;l.l.l.864hear, hear.863862861860hear, hear.Lord John Russell
hear881some impatience was manifested on the Opposition side of the House.hear, and a laugh began by observing, that he looked at men as well as measures [hear881some impatience was manifested on the Opposition side of the House.hear, and a laughLord Valletort
hear.884883882 said, that an experience of twenty-four years in that House had strengthened all his early impressions respecting the propriety of Parliamentary
hear.884883882Dr. Lushington
 said, in explanation, that words had been put into his mouth, which he had not used, and that he meant to impute no improper motives to the noble Lord.Lord Valletort
902901900899898 said, that he should follow the example of the noble Lord in that path in which alone he knew that he should be able to follow it successfully— he meant the moderation with which the noble Lord had approached the discussion of this important Question. The noble Lord had brought it forward with a temperance and ability which were calculated to conciliate assent to a doubtful proposition in as great a degree as it was possible to conciliate it. Long as he had been in Parliament, and frequently as he had been present at discussions upon Parliamentary Reform, it so happened that it had never been his lot upon any occasion to take any part in the great debates to which he had listened upon it. He had
902901900899898Mr. Secretary Peel
907cuique suum;906905cries of "Oh no!" and laughter904903 apprehended that every freeman in Georgia had a right of voting, and there fore, as far as the whites were concerned, the Legislative Assembly of Georgia owed its origin to Universal Suffrage. Now, making all allowances for the feelings which were naturally generated by the possession of slaves, he did not think that any House of Commons elected under the present system would, even if it had possessed a slave population, have passed an Act which contained two such clauses as were now in the Act passed by the Georgian legislature. It was enacted, "That if any slave or free person of colour should circulate, or cause to be circulated, or should aid in circulating or in causing to be circulated in the State of Georgia, any written paper exciting slaves to insurrection, that person should be punished with death." That enactment was extraordinary enough; but the second enactment was still more extraordinary. It enacted, "That if any negro, free person of colour, or white person, should teach any negro to read or write any character, either printed or written, the said negro, free person of colour, or while person, should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanour, and punished by fine and whipping, or by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of the Court, the fine not to exceed 500 dollars, but the imprisonment to be at. (he discretion of the Court." Making every allowance, he repeated, for the feeling which in Georgia must naturally he excited by the possession of a slave population, he must again repeat that he did not think that we, with our election system, and without any system of Universal Suffrage, should ever have passed a law which would sentence to fine and whipping those who might have been kind hearted enough to teach a negro to read. No; that, could never be the case, even in our own West-Indian Islands. On these grounds, looking both at the "ancient constitution of the House and at the practical effects produced upon the country by our existing Representative system, he could find no reason for running the risk of losing the actual advantages which we
907cuique suum;906905cries of "Oh no!" and laughter904903Mr. Peel
loud cheering.915salus populi,914913912hear, and laughter.d.s.l.911hear, and laughter910hear, hear909loud cheershear908hear  commenced by declaring himself highly gratified by the candid and manly manner in which the right hon. Secretary had addressed himself to the discussion of the Question. He hailed it with delight, as a circumstance auspicious to the great cause he had so long advocated, that he had heard a Minister of the Crown give his sentiments with a degree of candour and temper which he had never before witnessed coming from that quarter on such a question, [loud cheering.915salus populi,914913912hear, and laughter.d.s.l.911hear, and laughter910hear, hear909loud cheershear908hear Mr. Brougham
nata896pro re said, that having always voted against Reform, he was anxious to state the reasons why he should vote for the Motion of his noble friend. A distinct grievance had been brought before the House for which a remedy was proposed that was at once safe and in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. Mr. Justice Blackstone stated, that as trade is of a fluctuating nature and not long fixed in a place so nata896pro reLord W. Powlett
 observed, that by lowering the duties on Irish Spirits one-half, we had more than doubled our revenue.Mr. Brownlow
 presented a Petition from a parish in Suffolk, complaining of Agricultural Distress, and praying for a repeal of the Malt Tax.Mr. Western
.—No, no; there is in that country a slave population.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that in a few days he should lay a case before the House containing strong proofs that the bill of the hon. Member for Oxford, although good in some of its provisions, had in parts signally failed,—he alluded to the plan of appeals to Quarter Sessions.Lord Nugent
 thought the evil of having no other persons but the resident proprietors to administer justice was greater than the benefit obtained by the saving of the compensation referred to; and he trusted the delay would soon be terminated. He wished to ask whether the evidence to be given by the Commissioners, as to the state of the Colonies, had closed?Lord Nugent
 conceived the expense to be so necessary, that he for one would not oppose its being incurred.Lord Nugent
874873872871 seconded the Motion. He said, that he considered those who im-
874873872871Mr. Wilbraham
897 said, that though he had always opposed every project of general Reform, he had always felt that when any case of practical grievance in the representative system was brought under the notice of the House, it was the duty of the House to endeavour to apply a remedy to it. He contended that the plan of amending the Representation, which had that, night been proposed by the noble Lord, was no innovation on the Constitution, but in strict conformity with the plan upon which the House of Commons had been formed, and by which the number of its Members had been gradually increased
897Mr. Bright
hear851 observed, that the excessive duties on West-India produce were burthens laid on as war taxes, and ought long since to have been removed. The planters had, therefore, good reason to
hear851Mr. Bright
 recommended the taking off of the Hop duties altogether. This would enable every cottager to make his own beer.Mr. Bright
879878hear877s. 876 said, he could not agree either to the Motion or the Amendment that, had been presented to the House, not that he was disposed to set himself in opposition to every species of reform, but because he felt that he could not adopt either of the courses proposed without compromising his own judgment. With respect to the Amendment that had been offered to the notice of the House, it was not pretended by any of the hon. Members who had preceded him, that there was any great or crying grievance to be met at this moment, and he therefore did not see why that House should pledge itself to any particular course in future. As the law of England now stood, there was not any one in this country who could not have the privilege of the Elective Franchise if he chose; and, therefore, he did not see hat this question presented the great difficulties which had been attendant upon the Catholic Question. According to the arrangement which had been made at the end of the seventeenth century, it appeared to him that the Crown could not
879878hear877s. 876Mr. Twiss
887 said, that he had, last Session, voted for a proposition, similar to the one then before the House, and he had not heard anything since that time to induce him to alter his opinion. He certainly did not agree with the proposition to confer the Elective Franchise at once upon the towns in question; but if the Bill were introduced in the Committee, the Franchise of East Retford might be given to one of the proposed towns, and the others might obtain the Franchise, as boroughs, against which corruption was proved were disfranchised. He was quite opposed to the principles which the hon. Member for Aberdeen and other hon. Members had broached, with respect to Universal Suffrage and Radical Reform; but were it only to avoid such rash innovations, he would recommend a concurrence in the noble Lord's Motion. It was undoubtedly notorious that if any interest in the country were worse represented in that House than any other, it was the manufacturing. Large towns ought unquestionably to have distinct Representatives. In the thirteen years during which he had been returned for the place which he had the honour to represent, he had brought in and carried above two hundred local Bills. He might confidently refer to his right hon. colleague that the representation of a populous town was no sinecure. All the great questions which his
887General Gascoyne
 said, he merely gave his opinion but the noble Lord must use his own discretion.General Gascoyne
 was of opinion, that the people of England would receive the Chancellor of the Exchequer's intimation with gratitude. Let the right hon. Gentleman proceed unintimidated by the representations of Scotch and Irish Members, and he would have the House and the country with him to bear him out in his undertaking.General Gascoyne
856ad valorem was extremely surprised at the hon. Member for Norwich declaring that he could controvert the statements that had been made. The only statements which he (Mr. Hume) had heard were, that since 1792, the prices of sugar had been decreasing, while the duty was increasing—that the consumption had consequently been diminished, and that great distress prevailed in the West-India Islands —all which statements he believed were incontrovertible. With respect to the question before the House, he thought it should be taken up, not as a colonial but as a national question, for it was one in which the people of England were deeply interested. He had always been an advocate for colonial interests, but it was his opinion that those interests could best be promoted by the abolition of the monopoly now enjoyed by the West-India planters of the home market, for it was quite in vain to attempt to keep up the price of West-India sugar above the European average. The consequence of the attempt was, that the surplus supply for the home market, raised at a great cost, was obliged to be sent to Hamburgh at a great loss, for there it would fetch no higher price than the sugar from Cuba or the Brazils. The fact was, there was no hope of an improvement for the Colonies, unless there were a diminution of the expenditure. They could not have a monopoly—it was useless to others, and: injurious to the planters themselves. He would therefore advise the reduction of the duties both on East and West India sugars, and the free admission of both, whereby both would gain, as they would then have an 856ad valoremMr. Hume
 bore testimony to the good effects produced by the reduction of the Spirit duties in Scotland on the character of the inhabitants of the Western Highlands, who were formerly smugglers, but had now returned to peaceable and sober habits. He deprecated the outcry that had been made against the reduction of the Spirit duties: it was no reason because an article might be abused by some, that it should be rendered dear to all.Mr. Hume
s.s.hear called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a revision of the Licensing System, as a means of promoting the sale of Beer, and relieving Agricultural Distress. He was satisfied that the public and agriculturists would be more benefited by a judicious alteration of that system than by a repeal of the Malt Tax. If Spirits could be made to bear any additional duties, he believed that the effect of imposing such duties would also be highly beneficial, [s.s.hearMr. Ridley Colborne
 concurred with the noble Marquis in all the statements he had made respecting the distressed state of the Colonies, and in all the opinions he had professed; but there were some points which the noble Marquis had omitted, and which he (Mr. Davis) was anxious to bring under the consideration of the House. He thought that it would be expedient to make some new regulation respecting the registering of slaves, and the removal of them from one colony to another; for cases of extreme hardship had fallen within his knowledge, of property rendered altogether useless, in consequence of the law which prevented slaves being sold or transferred from one island to another. It happened thus— the estate upon which a certain number of slaves were employed was worn out, and consequently, from the operation of this law, the property and the persons employed on it were both rendered at the same moment useless. Indeed, he knew a case in which a friend and constituent of his would derive the greatest benefit and profit, if he could only transport his slaves across a river.Mr. Hart Davis
889888 regretted, that notwithstanding the temper and moderation with which the noble Lord had brought forward his Motion, he must vote against it. He was obliged to look not only at the immediate object of the Motion, but at its remote and inevitable consequence, and if he consented to it, he did not know how much further he might be obliged to go. If he acceded to the Motion, he should accede to a Motion for increasing the number of Members in that House without limit. Such a measure would be highly dangerous. The country might never be satisfied, and never convinced that the House of Commons should not consist of as many Members as any Gentleman should choose. He thought, therefore, that it would be less inconvenient to postpone the introduction of additional Members for these populous places, than to open the door to an indefinite increase of the number of Members of that House. The actual increase proposed was only six Members added to six hundred and fifty eight, and was not in itself important; but how could he, how could the House, resist the next Session any Gentleman who might propose that Sheffield or Halifax, which was more populous than Leeds, should be represented—how could he then resist such
889888Mr. Wynn
s.s.850s.s.s.s. said, that upon a great portion of West-India produce no profits were gained, but, on the contrary, a great loss was sustained, and families formerly in affluence were now in the greatest distress. The shipping and property, and other commercial interests connected with the West Indies, amounted to about seven millions annually. Was it, then, to be believed that all this shipping and property might be swept away without inconvenience or injury to the general interests of the country? Of these interests, some were of a very peculiar nature; and they, he contended, were affected by that colonial distress which arose from excessive taxation, the foreign slave trade, and the introduction of Mauritius Sugar. In the year 1807 the slave trade had been put an end to in our Colonies, under the impression that, by its abolition, we should be paying a debt due to humanity, in allowing slaves to rise in the scale of society to the rank of freemen. Measures also had been taken by Lord Castlereagh to induce foreign countries to give up this traffic, but in vain; for the French appeared bent upon carrying it on, though it was deeply degrading to such a nation as France. Thus it happened that notwithstanding all our exertions and expense, seven hundred thousand slaves had, since the peace of 1815, been brought from the coast of Africa to foreign colonies, for the purpose of extending cultivation there; while our Colonies were deprived of all such advantages. Again, in 1823 the introduction of Mauritius sugar was permitted, the consequence of which had been that depreciation in the price of West-India sugar stated by the noble Marquis (Chandos). How, then, were the West India planters situated? There was a duty of 27s.s.850s.s.s.s.Mr. Keith Douglas
 had understood from the right hon. Gentleman that the same reason existed last year for not then bringing forward this measure. The consequence of this had been that for two years the island of Tobago had been without a Chief Judge to administer the law. He thought that was an evil of no small magnitude, since there would then be no others to administer justice to the inhabitants but the resident proprietors. In his opinion the benefit of the saving by no means compensated for the evil of thus leaving the Colony without a proper judicial officer.Mr. Keith Douglas
 said, he should not feel himself then bound to follow the hon. Member for Montrose through all the points on which he had touched, but still it was quite true that this question did claim peculiar attention, and at a fit opportunity he should be prepared to show that by a long course of measures, Government and Parliament had given peculiar claims to the West-India proprietors to protection. He would state his conviction that great as might be the pressure and the difficulties upon other interests in this country, there was none labouring under more difficulties, and requiring more urgently that relief should be given to it, than the West-India interest.Mr. Huskisson
895894893hear, hear.892891890 said, he would detain the House for a very short time on this occasion. He did not wish to go at length into the discussion of the question; at the same time he could not give a silent vote on the Motion. His noble friend who proposed the Amendment had said, that he had come to the view which he had taken on the subject, with considerable difficulty and after much consultation with his friends. He (Mr. Huskisson) would also say, that in like manner he had come to the view which he had taken on the subject after considerable deliberation and reflection, and he was sorry that he did not take the same view of it as that adopted by his noble friend the mover of the Amendment. His noble friend's Amendment, if he (Mr. Huskisson) understood it, went, in the first place to state that it was most desirable that these great manufacturing districts should have a direct Representation in this House. His noble friend thus commenced by admitting the existence of the grievance; and so far he (Mr. Huskisson) went along with him in his view of
895894893hear, hear.892891890Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had it in his power to controvert the statements which had been made; he would, however, postpone all observations for the present. The inquiry was one which ought to be entertained without passion or prejudice.Mr. W. Smith
 admitted, that the reduction of the Spirit duties in Ireland might have facilitated the collection of the Revenue, and done away with many local causes of disorder; at the same time he had no hesitation in saying that the reduction of the Scotch and Irish Spirit duties, and the competition thereby occasioned in the English distilleries, had driven beer out of the Metropolitan market, and deluged it with an abominable and pernicious beverage.Mr. W. Smith
858 felt called upon to say a few words in consequence of what had just fallen from the hon. Member. The
858Sir G. Murray
hear, hear. said, in reply to the question put by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he had a perfect recollection of what had occurred on the occasion to which allusion had been made. He still entertained an anxious wish to bring forward the measure he then spoke of, as he was fully aware of its importance, not only with respect to the amelioration of the slaves in the West Indies, but of the colonists generally. He begged to assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he was ready to do all in his power to promote the object of the admission of slave evidence in the courts, as he felt perfectly satisfied of the benefits that must result from it. The only obstacle that at present existed was, the expense that must be incurred in affording compensation to the judges, for losses that would be occasioned, in consequence of the alterations proposed to be made on that account, and with a view to save expense, he had abstained from making out the appointments of the Chief Justice of Tobago, and Chief Justice of St. Vincent's; and he hoped that that delay would have the effect of reducing the amount to be paid by way of compensation. He hoped this statement would be considered a sufficient pledge of the intention of the Government to pursue the measures previously promised, [hear, hear. Sir G. Murray
 said, the Commission had ceased, and there was no other obstacle to carrying the Report of the Commissioners into effect but the expense.Sir G. Murray
 explained, that he by no means pretended to depreciate the objects either of the noble Mover, or the noble Lord who had moved the Amendment.Sir G. Murray
886hear885 said, he would not detain the House long. He was sure they would agree with him that, however various opinions might be with regard to the principles advocated by the noble Lord whose Motion was under consideration, the tone and temper with which the noble Lord had brought the subject forward could not be too highly praised, nor too frequently imitated. He was obliged, however, to differ from the noble Lord's conclusions,
886hear885Sir George Murray
 observed, that he could not pretend to say what would be the effect of raising the Spirit duties in England; but the adoption of such a measure in Ireland would immediately revive illicit distillation, and along with it the disorders and disturbances which a few years ago it had been found so difficult to quell.Sir J. Newport
In decimum vestigia rettulit annum,—In decimum vestigia rettulit annum,880 said, the hon. Member for Wootton-Basset (Mr. Twiss) began by declaring that he thought the Government and the House were fully justified in making concessions to the Roman Catholics, because great danger was to be apprehended from refusing them; and that he was not disposed to make the concessions now required by the Reformers, because the same danger did not demand the same sacrifices. Now he (Lord Morpeth) was quite prepared to admit that the same danger was not to be apprehended from a refusal of the noble Lord's Motion; but he really must contend that there might be very great danger in refusing to take the claims of the people into consideration. The state of the country had undergone a great change within the last few years. The people were every day acquiring intelligence, and with that intelligence they obtained moral power; but it was the misfortune of the time, that while a great portion of the country was thus advancing in moral power, it was retrograding in physical power. The people were becoming more enlightened, but they were at the same time becoming more distressed; and when the House saw the population of Sheffield petitioning, and the inhabitants of Birmingham associating, he thought these were signs of times in which it was not quite safe to resist the just wishes and reasonable remonstrances of those who, being numerous and possessing wealth and Influence, now claimed a participation in the advantages of a free Representation. A noble relation of his had proposed an Amendment to the same effect as that which had been carried in the year 1819. But the moment he heard those Resolutions mentioned he felt satisfied that they presented in themselves an insuperable objection to their being adopted. Since the time they; were passed, the Legislature had disfranchised Gram pound and Penryn, and was tardily proceeding to legislate With respect to East Retford; but ten
In decimum vestigia rettulit annum,—In decimum vestigia rettulit annum,880Lord Morpeth
 observed, that the recommendations to him to withdraw his Amendment, had proceeded on such inconsistent grounds, that he did not feel it to be his duty to concede to the recommendations. Lord Sandon
875 said, that he was embarrassed by the Motion of the noble Lord, for while he admitted that some Reform was desirable, he thought the means taken to obtain it by the present Motion not very safe, the question then proposed for them was second in importance to none which had come before the House, since the great question of Catholic Emancipation. He could never suppose that our ancestors who were anxious to see every town represented would have been contented to allow towns superior to the London of their day, to be without a voice in Parliament. He admitted too that any measure extending the basis of Representation, was planting the Constitution more firmly in the minds of the people. Still he did not think the measure proposed by the noble Lord a safe one. It had been observed by an hon. Member "that all Reform should be founded on such principles as to present a distinct and visible limit to its operation, and be so planned as carefully to avoid leading by any necessary consequence to the adoption of other measures, and leaving all future questions of a similar nature to be discussed on their own intrinsic merits." The condition announced in this observation he should have desired to find in the Motion of his noble friend, he wished to see in it some principle of limitation beyond which it would not force the Legislature to proceed. He found in it, however, an unlimited principle of augmentation. His noble friend proposed to augment the present number of Members of the House of Commons by six, and if once the Legislature departed from the limited number established by solemn treaties, those of the Union with Ireland and Scotland, where was it to stop? Granting the Franchise to the three towns included in the Motion of his noble friend, on what grounds could the House refuse a similar privilege to many other Towns that had almost an equal claim? Looking at the Motion as tending indefinitely to augment the number of Members of that House, and as altering, if carried, the proportions now established between the Representatives of different parts of the country, he was bound though with great pain to resist the Motion of his noble friend. He would fain adopt a middle course, and in his wish to find one, he
875Lord Sandon
919l., after complimenting the Solicitor General on the trouble he had taken to reform this part of the Law, said, that he thought a measure so important as one affecting the whole landed interest of the country which that did, ought not to be hastily passed. One of the topics which would come under the consideration of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Law, was this of Appointments, and it would be better to wait till they had finished their laborious task; they should recommend something different from the Bill of his hon. and learned friend, and to place the House in a situation of embarrassment, and bring the Law into additional confusion. His hon. and learned friend proposed to assimilate the rule of Equity, to the rule of Law. A person might give property, over which he had a power of Appointment, as he chose, giving 100,000919l.Mr. Bernal
l.l.l. observed, that the Bill then before the Committee had been introduced to the House last Session, but it had been allowed to stand over, and owing to that circumstance it had become generally known, and he was happy to say was generally approved of. It had been his object not unnecessarily to alter the Law, but to give facilities for administering it. At present if a man left 1000l.l.l.The Solicitor General
 said, he disapproved of the hon. and learned Gentleman's Amendment which would take away all power from a parent. His own Bill allowed the parent to give either a large or a small sum. One child might be sickly or a cripple, and therefore requiring a larger provision than others. Another might be already provided for by other means, and the clause of the hon. and learned Member would prevent the parent from providing for the wants of his feeble offspring, and would compel him to add to the wealth of a child already rich; because a power of disposing of property might be abused by individuals that was not a sufficient reason for depriving all men of its enjoyment. The same argument would justify every possible restriction, for there was no liberty or power which a man might not and which some men did not abuse. Believing that to adopt the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Clare would be a great calamity, he should resist it.The Solicitor General
 Amendment, was then put and negatived.Mr. O'Connell's
 supported the Bill, and said he was convinced that no Gentleman acquainted with the subject could object to the Bill.The Attorney General
 also supported the Bill. He said he considered it as tending to remove doubts without making any alteration in the law. At present a lawyer could take his fee, but he could not give an opinion on a case of powers which was entitled to any confidence. It was high time, therefore, that the law should be defined and settled, and in doing that, he did not know that it would be of much importance to the community, whether property were equally or unequally divided. The measure merited his support, because it went to remove the doubts in which the subject was involved, and he, in common with others, felt that the country was deeply indebted to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had brought in the Bill.Mr. Alexander Dawson
922 agreed with the Solicitor General. He supposed, he said, that the hon. Member for Clare wished to assimilate our law to that of France, which he believed would be a great and even vital injury to the people of this country. There could, perhaps, be no greater evil than to make children independent of their parents. The latter might sometimes abuse their power, but it was the gift of nature and ought not to be destroyed by the law. The Amendment proposed would destroy
922Mr. Tennyson
 said, he approved of the measure being then discussed, and expressed his approbation of the exertions of his hon. and learned friend in giving up so much of his time to effect improvements in the law,Mr. Tennyson
923minimuml.minimum said, that he thought the Solicitor General had pursued a most praiseworthy course by bringing in a Bill to remedy a particular evil, and not proposing any sweeping measure of Reform. The Bill only went to fix the 923minimuml.minimumSir Charles Wetherell
 then proposed another clause as an Amendment, leaving half his property at the free disposal of a parent, and compelling him to divide the other half in aliquot parts among all his children. He did not wish, he said, to deprive a man of the power of disposing absolutely of property which he had acquired by his industry. His plan, however, was consistent with the ancient custom of Gavel-kind, which he considered to be a very rational practice. Nor did he think that the inconveniences dreaded by the hon. Member for Bletchingley (Mr. Tennyson) from the equal distribution of property would be very great. Already a large portion of the property of the country was personal, which was generally so distributed and no inconvenience arose.Mr. O'Connell
 said his object was to prevent abuse by giving aliquot portions of property to each child.Mr. O'Connell
 admitted that the inconvenience stated by the hon. Gentleman would sometimes occur; but he thought there was only a choice of evils, and that the Amendment he proposed by getting rid of much litigation, would be the least evil of the two.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he had an Amendment to propose. They were then speaking in a language that was not generally intelligible; and as the law was made to be obeyed by all, he thought that the first reform ought to be in its language, so that all might understand it. He should be glad, therefore, that what was meant by a substantial share, and an illusory share, both in Equity and Law, should be more clearly denned. Passing from that, however, the Amendment he had to propose, would prevent any person having the power to make an Appointment after the passing of the Act, unless he gave to every child a substantial share. His object was, to make it obligatory on the father to provide for each of his children. It might be said, that he was taking from the parent the power of distributing his property, and he admitted that he meant to limit that power, because he knew that it was sometimes put up to auction, as it were in families, and otherwise much abused. He should prefer seeing it so settled on the child, that this could not occur. He was aware that he should differ on that point from the hon. and learned Gentleman, who was probably attached to the law of primogeniture, but he believed that the public would go along with him, in desiring rather to see an equal diffusion of wealth, than an accumulation of it in enormous masses. He gave the hon. and learned Gentleman credit for his intentions, but having himself reflected much on the subject, he was convinced of the propriety of his own Amendment, and he should propose it, though it might not be carried, in order that it might be entered on the Journals of the House, as he thought it well calculated to put an end to needless litigation.Mr. O'Connell
 also recommended that the measure should be immediately proceeded with, as all those were present who were at any time likely to take part in the discussion.Mr. Doherty
921 said, the clause of the hon. and learned Member compelling, as he understood it, a parent to divide all his
921Mr. Courtenay
 again objected to their proceeding with so important a measure.Mr. Trant
 objected to the measure being pressed forward in so thin a House, and recommended the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone it to some other day.Mr. Trant
 presented a Petition from Bishops professing the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, on the subject of Education in that country.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that if the usual items for Education appeared in the Irish Estimates this year he should bring the matter before the House, with a view to an inquiry into the subject.Mr. Rice
 said (as we understood him), that the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster had nothing to do with the Crown Lands.Mr. Arbuthnot
 supported the petition, and observed that, as the Revenue would not be affected, and it was a case of great hardship, he hoped the prayer of the petition would be acceded to.The Solicitor-General
 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the county of Lincoln, complaining of Distress and Taxation. The Petition was signed by 7,000 persons. He trusted that Ministers would take the condition of the labouring classes into consideration, and shift the load of taxation from their shoulders upon those of a portion of the community better able to bear it. He was glad to hear that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to do something with respect to the sale of beer; and trusted that the Beer-tax, which fell so heavily upon the lower orders, would be modified.Mr. Chaplin
 said, the petition was signed by 1,200 persons. He had proved last year that the duties imposed on Malt liquor, in various shapes, amounted to 200 per cent. He had been informed, and was glad to hear, that Government intended to do something to facilitate the retail supply of Beer to the working classes. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if it were his intention to move for a Committee to inquire into the licensing system of public-houses? Having himself given notice of a motion relative to the burthens and restrictions on the manufacture and supply of Malt liquor, which comprised that among other objects, he should be glad that the matter should fall into better hands. If it turned out that he had been correctly informed as to the right hon. Gentleman's intention, giving Government full credit for a sincere wish to relieve the labouring classes, he should postpone his notice of motion, hoping, as he did, that Ministers would do their utmost to relieve the public burthens; and that though a revision of the licensing system might be the beginning, it would not prove the end of remedial measures.Mr. Slaney
1009 said,
1009The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped that some county Member would take up the motion which the hon. Member's new-found confidence in Ministers had induced him to defer.Colonel Davies
 was not indifferent to the subject, but wished to give Government time to act for itself.Mr. Slaney
 observed, that with respect to the Oaths, they were imposed by Acts of Parliament, and could be easily ascertained, without the cost and trouble which must attend a return.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no objection to these Returns being granted, except on the score of the expense of printing the names of these persons,—an expense which he thought ought not to be incurred, unless the hon. Member first made out a case of probable benefit.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1032sldsdssldsdsa laughds1031dsdsl10301029a fortiori10281027ceteris paribus1026 thought, that the hon. Member for Staffordshire placed his Motion on a considerably lower ground than it ought to occupy, when he founded it upon the Resolution of 1696. He marvelled to hear it made a matter of doubt whether an individual, being a Judge of one of the Courts at Westminster, a Justice of Quarter Sessions, or even a member of any inferior judicature, exercising deliberate functions, could practise in those Courts, Sessions, or Judicatures, as Counsel, Agent, or Solicitor. It was a proposition utterly repugnant in itself, and which required no argument to establish its absurdity. The same rule must apply to the Members of the House of Commons. But the hon. Member for Aberdeen had expressed himself of opinion, that no abuse could result from a Member of that House acting as a solicitor in cases of bills, provided he did not sit on the committee. He had inquired how a Member under such circumstances could possibly exercise undue influence to promote the success of the bill in which he was professionally interested. This question, he apprehended, would be best answered by propounding another, which he would thus put to that hon. Gentleman. Suppose he were himself personally concerned in the fate of a private bill, and that he was given the option between two solicitors, Mr. A. and Mr. B., whose services were respectively suggested. Mr. A. happens to be merely a professional man, but Mr. B. is a Member; and he now put it to him, as a sound man of business, whether he would hesitate a single moment in his choice—whether
1032sldsdssldsdsa laughds1031dsdsl10301029a fortiori10281027ceteris paribus1026Mr. Brougham
 said, that he could bear testimony to the correctness of the explanation of his hon. and learned friend of the circumstances relative to the late Sir James Graham. With regard to the fees supposed to be received by the law officers of the Crown for their professional duties in that House, all he could say was, that he had devoted much of his time to one particular bill, and it had never entered his head that he was to be compensated for his labours in that instance. He had never heard of any of the emoluments of the law officers being connected with or arising out of any bill in that House.The Attorney General
 said, the hon. Member for Colchester had been quite mistaken in the whole of his statement respecting Sir James Graham, who, from the moment of entering the House, disclaimed all participation in the profits of the partnership alluded to. The same he knew was the case with Mr. Smith, who, though Solicitor to the East-India Company had never been concerned as a parliamentary agent in any business whatever. It was the less necessary, he thought, to enter into a resolution of the nature then before the House, as it had all along been distinctly understood, that whenever any Member had a direct interest in any thing coming before a committee, he immediately withdrew from it. On that ground he did not see the necessity of the House coming to any resolution such as that which had been proposed.Mr. Baring
103610351034 could not see how there could be two opinions on the subject of the Resolution. He confessed that he thought the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Colchester for bringing the question to such a form, as that it resolved itself into this—Was the practice alluded to carried on openly or otherwise?
103610351034Mr. Hobhouse
 repeated that the question was as had been stated by the last speaker, and expressed his strong disapprobation of the circular letter which had been mentioned—he never read anything more objectionable. The conduct of all professional men ought to be above reproach, and he considered that it was extremely unfair in Members of that House, by themselves or by their partners, to become solicitors or agents for one party or the other.The Solicitor General
1039Harvey said, he had listened with great attention to the present discussion, and he had come to the decision of voting with the hon. Member for Staffordshire, for which he should give three reasons—and in a sentence; first, because it was consistent with the uniform practice of the House, that lawyers should not take any part, as members of Parliament, in any proceedings wherein they were professionally engaged, and he thought the same rule should apply to Solicitors.—Secondly, that any Member taking pecuniary rewards for his services, did that which was incompatible with the discharge of any parliamentary duty. Thirdly, the practice referred to gave Members of Parliament an undue preference over the other members of their own profession, and thereby it should not be sanctioned by that House. And here he was bound to say, that the hon. Member for Colchester had made what he thought an undue use of the privilege of franking, in sending his circulars, under the sanction of his parliamentary privilege, free of postage. He did not conceive that voting for the proposition of his hon. friend, the Member for Staffordshire, conveyed any blame upon the conduct of the hon. Member for Colchester, for he might certainly have taken a different view of the subject from that which other hon. Members were in the habit of taking. As to the other Resolution, he thought it ought not to be taken in connection with that of his hon. friend; each ought to stand on its own merits, and be decided after a separate discussion. The utmost difficulty, he apprehended, would be found in any attempt to exclude from committees Members having indirect interests in the matters at issue [Mr. D. W. 1039HarveyMr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had been disposed to congratulate the House on the temper in which the discussion had been carried on, but the last speech of the hon. Member for Colchester had taken away all reason for congratulation. He had severely arraigned the conduct of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, though he had done well for himself to defer his attack till that hon. Gentleman had quitted the House.Mr. Lamb
 supported the Motion, because he thought the Resolutions of that House on such a subject could not be too strong and too comprehensive.Mr. Alderman Waithman
1048 said, he was rejoiced to find that the discussion had terminated in a manner so creditable to all parties. The hon. Baronet, asserting his just right to comment on the conduct of any public department, had yet, with great candour, allowed that, on mature reflection, there were points on which he had come to a hasty conclusion; and he had also given his hon. and gallant friend full credit for zeal in the discharge of his duty. It appeared to him, therefore, that the discussion had been creditable to both parties.
1048Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had fixed Friday because he knew that many hon. Members were anxious for the progress of the bill. He was, however, entirely in the hands of the House.Mr. N. Calvert
10531052l1051llll1050l1049 was sure that his hon. friend never intended any thing personal against the hon. Baronet. The right hon. Gentleman had observed that his hon. friend had conceded two points. That was true, but they were minor points. On the principal question—namely, whether the Navy Board had done its duty or not—his hon. friend's opinion remained unaltered; and he entirely concurred with him. The hon. Baronet had read a portion of the evidence given before the Finance Committee, but if he had the whole of Mr. Barrow's evidence he would have confirmed the statement of his hon. friend, that the Navy Board had, between the years 1815 and 1821, opposed reduction. Mr. Barrow's evidence, which he would read, was as follows:—"Has not the Admiralty Board a general superintendance over the whole of the department?—Unquestionably; but until the war was finished the Lords of the Admiralty could not very well be spared to go down; and shortly after the war was finished a visitation made some slight reduction, but not to any great extent. It was not till 1821 that the Board was at liberty to examine more strictly into the state of the dock-yards and cause greater reductions to be made.—Since 1821, why were not those reductions made which appear to be necessary, and which you now have carried into effect?—
10531052l1051llll1050l1049Mr. Maberly
 thought, that, in the circumstances of the country, this grant was most extravagant. He doubted the utility of the education the young men received at the Military College; and if it were continued, it certainly ought to be on a more limited scale than at present.Colonel Davies
 approved of the view taken by Mr. Hume, in which Lord Euston also professed his concurrence.Mr. Jephson
a laugh1058 said, the education given at the College was very inefficient; he had
a laugh1058Colonel Davies
 contended that the expense was enormous, and that the forty commissions they offered a-year was a prodigious prize offered to these young men.Mr. Warburton
 also objected to the grant, in the state of the country, and he should feel himself called on not to support it. The present was not a time to make young soldiers; there was no want of them, and there was plenty of old officers. He did not know that he should find a seconder, but he certainly felt inclined to move that the vote be stopped altogether.Lord Euston
 called the attention of the House to a Petition which he considered to be of considerable importance to the health and comfort of the inhabitants of this great metropolis. It came from certain individuals living on the south side of the river Thames, in the county of Surrey. The petition stated that they applied on behalf of the inhabitants of nearly 70,000 houses, and that if time had permitted, there would have been 100,000 signatures to the petition. The petitioners stated, that they were many of them master bakers by trade, and that they were supplied by no other water than that pumped out of the River Thames, which was of the most impure and inferior quality, and particularly ill-adapted for the purpose of making wholesome and palatable bread,—that the water was disgusting to the eye, nauseous to the taste, and injurious to the health. They had entertained hopes from what passed in that House in the year 1827, that something would have been done to remedy the evil complained of; and they prayed that relief might be speedily afforded to them. He trusted that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Westminster (who had taken this important public interest under his able protection) would not neglect it, and that the Secretary of State for the Home Department would consider the subject as eminently entitled to his earliest and most serious attention.Mr. C. Pallmer
 confirmed the statements of distress contained in the petition; it was general, not partial. A statement had gone abroad, that the price of timber was but little, if at all, reduced; he begged distinctly to contradict that statement, and to add, that timber had fallen half its former price.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he had been a party to fixing the measure for that day, but knowing that the still greater question of the State of the Nation occupied the public attention, he would not stand in the way of his hon. friend the Member for Shaftesbury. The hon. Member also expressed a hope, that his next effort to divide the House, with a view to transferring the franchise from East-Retford to Birmingham, would be more successful.Mr. Tennyson
 allowed that the bill was important, but he thought that his hon. friend's motion was still more so, as the country was suffering under great distress.Mr. Western
1033 said, that, so far as he was informed, and having been a law officer of the Crown, he was enabled to state the practice to the House, the fact was beyond dispute, that no law officer of the Crown ever received from the Government any fee for preparing, or for supporting in that House, any measure which it was found expedient to bring before Parliament. He was satisfied that the hon. Member for Colchester did not mean any indelicacy, but it really was not altogether delicate to suppose that because the law advisers of the Crown were called upon to support particular bills—a call to which they were sometimes obedient, and sometimes disobedient—to think that they were such servile characters that they received a fee upon every bill which the Government brought in. Now, he said not only that they took no such fees, but further, if any measures were proposed which might be contradictory to duty, to honour, or to principle, a man to whom those considerations were valuable would reject not only the fee but the office too. He was not offering these remarks on behalf of himself, but on behalf of his predecessors in office, and of those who might be their successors; and he repeated, that a man of honour, under such circumstances, would reject not only the fee, but the office too, which was something more valuable. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Colchester would not cast upon Gentlemen
1033Sir Charles Wetherell
1024lnolens volens,l1023lddl1022dsslds10211020No, no.1019 said, if, Sir, at the time of my engaging in the partnership which is now the subject of discussion, I had had the slightest impression that what I was doing was contrary either to law, or to the usages of Parliament—had I even thought that it would have occupied so much of the valuable, the very valuable time of this House, as I now find it has done, I should not have engaged in it; that thought alone would have deterred me from forming such a connection, and I do most sincerely regret the time that has been consumed in hearing a discussion on
1024lnolens volens,l1023lddl1022dsslds10211020No, no.1019Mr. D. W. Harvey
 then proposed his Amendment as an original Motion. He said he had not intended to make any attack on the hon. Member for Knaresborough; but had only cited that case to show what was the usage of Parliament.Mr. Harvey
ll1040Gazette said, not wishing to disturb the unanimity of the House, he would vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Staffordshire. What he complained of was, that that Motion did not go far enough; and the object of his Amendment would be, to carry it to the extent which he thought the necessity of the case required. With that view, he proposed to add it in the form of another Resolution. He had, at no time, the least idea that he was acting in any manner contrary to the laws or usages of Parliament; indeed, the very manner in which he proceeded was an evidence that he did not conceive he was doing anything wrong. To that he had only to add, that, so soon as he became aware of his error, no one could be more ready to yield than he had been; and, as a proof of the sincerity of his declaration, the next ll1040GazetteMr. D. W. Harvey
 rose to renew the notice of his Motion, which was to have been made yesterday, respecting the Land Revenues of the Crown, for the 30th of March. He took this opportunity of observing, that the Revenues of the Crown Lands, in the Duchy of Lancaster, were not brought into any of the Public Accounts, and as it would greatly forward the object he had in view, he begged to ask the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster if he had any objection to furnish him with information on this subject.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 moved for a return of the produce of the Excise Duty on Leather, from the 1st of January, 1829, to the 1st of January, 1830—of the number and amount of penalties levied, and of the costs incurred thereby—of the expenses of collecting the duties on Leather—and of the number and nature of the oaths taken by manufacturers of Leather.Mr. O'Connell
 hoped, that it would not go forth to the public that they had been two hours by the clock straining at a gnat, after so often swallowing, not only a camel, but a whole caravan of camels.Mr. O'Connell
1010 said, that in the first
1010Mr. O'Connell
 said, that as he meant to bring the subject before the House, and as the Oaths were so numerous, he was not inclined to trust to any return of his own, because he would have no dispute upon facts. It would be very troublesome for gentlemen to look through all the Acts, and more troublesome to ascertain how many of those Acts had been repealed.Mr. O'Connell
 moved for similar returns respecting the Excise Duties on Paper.Mr. O'Connell
 moved for a return of the number of Inquests and Commissions which had been summoned under the Act for the Improvement of the city of Dublin for the last ten years; also, for a return of the number and names of the persons who had sat as Jurors on such Inquests, and of the amount of the sums which had been paid to them.Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that he understood that in his absence the hon. Member for Hertfordshire had postponed the further proceeding on the East Retford bill to Friday. Now as that was the day on which he (Mr. Davenport) had given notice of a motion on the State of the Nation, he put it to the hon. Member for Hertfordshire whether he would not postpone the proceeding with his bill to a future day.Mr. E. Davenport
 moved, as an Amendment, that the other Orders of the Day should be read.Mr. Littleton
10141013 said, that he rose pursuant to the notice he had given, to move a resolution, declaring it to be contrary to the law and usage of Parliament for any Member to engage, either by himself or partner, in the management of private bills for pecuniary reward. He hoped he should receive credit for sincerity when he said, that it was with real pain and regret that, having presented a petition, he felt himself obliged to follow it up by a
10141013Mr. Littleton
1018101710161015, in continuation said, that the Resolution which he should propose would only follow up the declaration. It was this:—"Resolved, That it is contrary to law, and to the usages of Parliament, for any Member either by himself or partner, to engage in the management of any private bill for any fee or reward." He was at a loss to conceive any objection there could be to passing this Resolution; but he could easily conceive that there were many grounds sufficient to call for its adoption. He would direct the attention of the House to the arguments which, on a former night, had been used by the hon. Member for Colchester upon this subject, and to the answers which he should give to them. In the first place that hon. Member justified himself on the fact, that other solicitors, Members of that House, had adopted the same course of proceeding, and that they had been allowed to engage in professional practice upon bills under discussion before the House. He presumed that the hon. Member believed he had stated only circumstances that were well founded; but, after a very exact inquiry into the matter, he had not been able to discover a single instance in which a solicitor sitting in that House engaged in professional practice upon private bills. The hon. Member for Colchester had to establish two points:—First, that there were instances in which solicitors, who were Members of that House, forgetting themselves and their duty to the House, had engaged in such practice; and next, that they had done so with the cognizance of that House. Unless he could succeed in establishing these two points, his facts and his arguments were worth nothing, and on these points he might fairly be challenged to prove that any one had done so without having been visited by punishment by that House. It was not strictly his duty to offer any comment upon the conduct of his departed and lamented friend, Sir James Graham; but he felt called upon by his respect for that gentleman to do so, and he would assert his utter disbelief that that gentleman had ever practised in the way sup-
1018101710161015Mr. Littleton
 acknowledged his obligations to the College. He had derived great benefit, from his instruction there, and looked back at the time he had spent there with pleasure. He thought the College could not be dispensed with, and, though he was as anxious as any person to relieve the public distress, he would vote for the grant.Colonel Dawkins
 said, nearly forty commissions had been given away in the course of the last year, to the cadets.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he was sorry to hear the gallant Officer had derived so little advantage from the College, but he believed that the same result did not take place with other pupils.Sir Henry Hardinge
1057ll.;lll would first state why the Military College should not pay its own expenses. There were three classes of students. The first were the orphans, whose fathers had been in his Majesty's service, and they were educated gratuitously; the second class, each of whom paid 201057ll.;lllSir Henry Hardinge
l1056 proposed that the
l1056Sir Henry Hardinge
 said, that the law of Parliament always was, that a Member interested could not vote; and, therefore, the hon. Gentleman's Motion was worse than nothing, because it restricted that non-voting to committees up stairs only.Mr. Croker
10071006 presented a Petition from the Cotton-Weavers, &c. of Preston, complaining of the very depressed state of their trade. The Petition, the hon. Member stated, was signed by 7,000 weavers, and he felt great pain in presenting it, because,
10071006Mr. J. Wood
 presented a Petition from a number of Articled Clerks in the profession of the Law, complaining that although they had paid the heavy stamp duty, and served five years in the profession, yet, having omitted to enroll their articles, they were debarred being admitted as attorneys, and became liable to serve five years over again, or pay an additional stamp duty.Mr. J. Wood
 wished to say one word on this petition. So far from believing that the plan recommended by the petitioners would afford relief, he was quite satisfied that what they asked would only add to their difficulties. A great number of persons were maintained by the manufacture of Cotton Twist for exportation, and if a duty were laid on that article on its being exported, all those individuals would be thrown out of employment. He was not however surprised that those petitioners complained and recommended as a remedy that which would only do mischief. When he heard men in the city and elsewhere,—men holding high rank and station, and who ought to be better informed, inveighing against the exportation of Cotton Twist as a dreadful evil to this country,—when such men made complaints of that nature, the House need not be surprised at the mistake into which the weavers had fallen. In one point, however, he agreed with the petitioners. He thought that the raw material ought to be introduced into this country at as cheap a rate as possible. In that principle he was satisfied, they were right; though the price of cotton was not now high, yet, if it were lower, it would increase the quantity of employment.Mr. Hume
ll said, before he proceeded to consider the subject of that vote, he wished to call the attention of his Majesty's Government to the state of our army in India. He knew that there were letters in town giving a most alarming description of the condition of that army, as to its state of subordination; but he understood that no official information had been received. As to the vote then before the Committee, he thought, considering the state of the public feeling, it was time that the Government took into its serious consideration the propriety of reducing this establishment. He begged leave to ask, why gentlemen intending to enter the military service should not pay for their own education, when there were one hundred applicants for every commission? He noticed, too, that the Lieutenant-governor had received a pension of 800llMr. Hume
10551054 observed, that if ever evidence was satisfactory, it was that which established the fact that the Admiralty were anxious for a reduction of expenditure, and would have reduced it but for the indisposition of the Navy Board to concur in the measure. In support of this opinion he would refer to the evidence before the Committee; and especially to that of one of the Lords of the Admiralty (Mr. Keith Douglas), who expressed his wish that the Committee would strengthen the hands of the Admiralty by some vote declaratory of its opinion that the Admiralty ought to carry its own views into effect. His evidence, as quoted by the hon. Member, was as follows;—"Have you any thing to suggest to the Committee as to the directing and supervising authority of the Admiralty over those Boards?—I think that the Admiralty have exercised so strict a superintendence by their visitation, that they are perfectly competent to suggest any alterations that may be necessary in the subordinate departments of the Admiralty, probably in the most efficient and satisfactory manner, for they have looked into the details; which it is important to know, and they learn from the correspondence which is constantly carried on, how the business is working. Having the knowledge which they possess, I am certainly of opinion, that if this committee were to strengthen the hands of the Admiralty by conveying to them a strong recommendation that they should carry their own views of improvement into effect, that it is in this manner that the most safe and effectual reforms can be effected.—Do you con-
10551054Mr. Hume
l still objected to the expense. He thought that those who desired to enter the service might educate themselves. As to the orphans, he thought they would be better taken care of by their parents (he should have said) their guardians. Still, whether advisable to educate such persons or not, he must say that the whole Estimate was too extravagant, and ought to be limited. If the noble Lord would propose that the vote should be limited to six months, he should have great satisfaction in supporting him. If the noble Lord would allow him, he would propose that the vote should be 3,800lMr. Hume
 said, the noble Lord should not want a seconder. He wished to know how many of the young men educated so superiorly at the College had been given to his Majesty's service?Mr. Hume
ll was glad to hear the hon. Member had profitted so much by his education; he was only sorry that he had not paid enough for it. It was the duty of that House not to vote one shilling of the public money that could be dispensed with. It was in this light he looked at the vote the Committee was called on to give. He wished, indeed, he saw the Members present who had presented petitions complaining of distress; but though they complained they took care not to attend to vote against themselves. He was not sure that it would not be a better way to allow the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take as much as he pleased, without opposition, for opposition obtained no success. He would not give himself the trouble to oppose the votes, were it not that the people out of doors might think that nobody in the House paid any attention to their interests. He would move that the vote be diminished one-half. The hon. Member then submitted that the sum of 3,800llMr. Hume
 said, he might have been misinformed, but he understood that the present petitioner was mentioned in that petition; and if so, he thought it hard to refuse the petitioner a hearing.Mr. Hume
 believed that a petition had, the other evening, been presented against the present petitioner, and he begged to know of the Speaker, if it were contrary to usage, in such a case, to hear a man at the Bar in defence of himself.Mr. Hume
1011 said, that the hon. Member for Staffordshire (Mr. Littleton) had given notice, that on Wednesday, the 17th of March, he should move for leave to bring in a Bill to render more effectual the laws for the Payment of Wages in Money. He wished then to give notice, that he should move, as an Amendment to that Motion, for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal all laws which inflicted penalties on Masters for paying wages in goods. He hoped he should be able to put an end to the delusion that prevailed on that subject. He would also then move for a Return of the number and names of each post town in which an extra charge, beyond the rate of postage fixed by Act of Parliament for the delivery of letters, had been made; together with a statement of the authority on which such extra charge had been made;—also, for a return of the number and names of places which had been relieved from such extra charge during the last three years—also, for a return of the gross amount of Excise Duties collected in Great Britain in the year ending the 5th of January, 1830; distinguishing the amount paid for collection, and the amount actually paid into the Exchequer—also, for a similar return respecting the Duties of Customs, and the Land and Assessed Taxes. The hon. Member said, he would take this opportunity of stating, that if the Ministers did not propose any further reductions, he should, as soon as the Estimates were over, submit a motion on the subject of the Collection of the Revenue. After the able manner in which an hon. friend of his (Sir H. Parnell) had exposed, in his late publication, the abuses of the mode of collection, and the saving that
1011Mr. Hume
 seconded the Motion.Mr. Hume
1025 said, he should willingly second the hon. Member for Colchester, as he had already testified his opinions upon the subject by proposing two resolutions in a former Session, precisely of a similar nature to the Resolution proposed as an Amendment by the hon. Member. He was by no means favourable to the principle of selecting particular cases for the interference of the House while the grosser and more important evil remained entirely unnoticed. The House would assuredly do honour to itself and add materially to the dignity of its character, if it uniformly made it a practice to challenge any of its Members who should take a part in the proceedings on a bill in which he was found to be in any degree individually interested. For several successive years he had endeavoured to impress upon the House the necessity of adopting such a course, but he had been invariably answered that it was better to leave the whole matter to the sense of honour entertained by the Members themselves, trusting to their feelings and perception of propriety. He was not a friend, however, to any measure which tended to cast blame where no blame could be justly imputed. How could a solicitor exercise an undue or sinister influence over the conduct of a Committee, when he was not a Member of
1025Mr. Hume
 supported the Amendment, on the ground that the Journals of the House were already over-loaded with rules.Mr. Sadler
 said, that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was already a rule of the House, and that it was quite unnecessary to enforce that rule by any further declaration, unless some specific cases were brought before Parliament. At present there was nothing but unsupported accusations.Mr. Wynn
1012 begged to ask of the Speaker if it were consistent with the
1012Mr. C. W. Wynn
1038 said, that the rule was perfectly clear, that parties interested should not sit upon committees, and there were more abuses of a similar description which called for the interference of the House. Let those cases be brought forward separately, and he, for one, would most readily lend his assistance in abolishing the evil. Nothing could be more distinct and explicit than the proceedings
1038Mr. C. W. Wynn
 pressed the hon. Member for Westminster to explain the allusions to members of the committees and chairmen of committees, contained in his speech. He was perfectly aware that it would not be consistent with the forms and the usages of that House for him to mention the names of the parties to whom he alluded, but he could state the occasion, the period, and such other particulars as could leave no doubt who were meant. It was only right that the House should receive some explanation, and it was only fair that the parties should have an opportunity of defending themselves, if any defence they had.Sir C. Burrell
 could not concur in the Motion.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he had made the fullest inquiry into the subject, and could declare that Sir James Graham had retired from Parliamentary business before he became a Member of that House, and never engaged in any business from which he could derive profit while he continued a Member.Colonel Dalrymple
 said, that there was certainly no precedent, that he knew of, in favour of receiving such a petition. He thought it well worthy the consideration of the House, whether they would allow a motion respecting the conduct of their own Members to be thus noticed.The Speaker
 said, that the hon. Member was putting to him an hypothetical question, which did not bear in the most remote degree upon the present case. The petition to which the hon. Member alluded, and which had been presented by the hon. Member for Staffordshire, was not against the present petitioner. It was the petition of a person who thought it derogatory to the dignity of the House that one of its Members should be engaged in partnership with others, out of the House, who were the paid agents for conducting Parliamentary business; and the petition prayed that such a practice might be put an end to. That petition, therefore, could not be said to be a petition against the present petitioner.The Speaker
Cries of "Withdraw." said, that if it were the wish of the House, he should certainly withdraw the petition. [Cries of "Withdraw."Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, he rose to present a Petition which had very lately been put into his hands, and which related to a motion about to be brought forward that evening. As it was respectfully worded, he bad not refused to present it. The petitioner was a Mr. Sydney, who took notice of a motion which was to be brought forward by the hon. Member for Staffordshire (Mr. Littleton), in which motion the petitioner thought that his interests were involved, and he prayed to be heard at the bar respecting the said motion. He begged to move that the petition be brought up.Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought it but just to his hon. and gallant friend to say, in the first place, that it was the duty of the Navy Board to state to the Board of Admiralty any observations which appeared to them to be advantageous for the public service; and, in the second place, that whatever was actually ordered by the Admiralty, was always executed by the Navy Board with zeal and dispatch. It was certainly true, that if the Navy Board had entirely concurred with the Admiralty, things would have gone on faster. But when objections to any proposition were made by practical men, it was the duty of the Admiralty to consider those objections maturely before they rejected them. He repeated, however, that whatever the Board of Admiralty finally decided should be done was done immediately.Sir O. Cockburn
 thought, that the system of our military education would be very defective if the College were done away. It was not intended to educate Staff-Officers only, as was supposed, but to diffuse through the whole army a better educated description of officers, and in this respect it had answered its purpose remarkably well. It had been, he believed, infinitely beneficial.Sir George Murray
1047 thanked the hon. Member for the discretion he had shown in bringing this subject before the House, and for his kindness in communicating to him his intention to do so. He would commence by observing, that it was the right of every individual to discuss those matters which were connected with the administration of public affairs; and to a Member of Parliament that right became a duty which was almost imperative. It was, he confessed, extremely difficult, in writing on such subjects, to avoid falling into expressions that might be too strong for the feelings of individuals, although in point of fact, he had taken the utmost care to shun every offensive word. He was not now, however, prepared to state that the impression he had received on the subject of the Navy Board had been altered; and a conversation which he had held with a noble Lord (Althorp), since he received the hon. Member's Letter yesterday morning, tended to confirm his first impression. His impression respecting the evidence on the subject of the Navy Board certainly was, that the Board had opposed itself to the views of the Admiralty on the subject of retrenchment. He recollected well, indeed, the reply made by Mr. Barrow, when questioned on that subject. When asked if he knew the reason why the reductions proposed had not taken place? Mr. Barrow answered in a tone and manner which struck him at the moment, and which he well remembered, "that the Navy Board could answer that question much better than he could." His impression then, as now, from that evidence, was that which he had stated in the pamphlet. With respect to the hon. and gallant Officer, he disclaimed any personal motive in what he had said respecting him. He was convinced that there was not an individual in the public service who did
1047Sir H. Parnell
1037 observed, that the question was not whether hon. Members having a direct or an indirect interest in questions before committees ought or ought not to sit upon them; the question was, whether the House should or should
1037Sir M. W. Ridley
 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the county of Salop, complaining of the heavy duties on Malt and Beer.Sir R. Hill
a laugh. felt himself bound to acknowledge the very handsome and honourable manner in which the hon. Baronet had expressed himself. He hoped, however, that if the hon. Baronet published a second edition of his pamphlet he would correct the errors into which he had fallen, [a laugh.Sir Byam Martin
10461045l104410431042, on the Motion for the Speaker leaving the Chair, expressed his regret at being under the necessity of trespassing for a short time on the attention of the House, and detaining it from going into a Committee. He had to complain that an hon. Baronet opposite (Sir H. Parnell) had, in a book on Financial Reform, thrown out imputations against him and against the Navy Board, which were totally unfounded, and decidedly contrary to the evidence given before the Finance Committee, on which the statements were alleged to be founded. The hon. Baronet asserted, that the Navy Board appeared by that evidence to have been mainly instrumental in preventing the execution of those measures of economy and retrenchment proposed by the Admiralty. He denied this most positively. He denied that any portion of his evidence, or of the; evidence of any other person before the Finance Committee, would bear out such a conclusion; and he called on the hon. Baronet to declare to the House that he had been instrumental in propagating a reflexion on the character of the Board which was not borne out by the facts. Had the Navy Board acted in the manner described by the hon. Baronet, it would have been unworthy of the confidence either of the Admiralty or the country. The hon. Baronet says, "According to the evidence given before the Finance Committee by Sir G. Cockburn,
10461045l104410431042Sir T. Byam Martin
 moved the second reading of the St. Katharine Dock Company's Bill.Mr. Alderman Thompson
1063 wished the hon. Member to postpone the second reading of
1063Mr. C. Culvert
 said, the Bill had been printed more than ten days, and to the best of his knowledge all persons interested had received copies. The object of the Bill was simply to enable the St. Katharine's Docks Company to borrow a sum of money; it conferred no new powers upon them. If the second reading were postponed, several days would be lost, and the parties put to much inconvenience; he must therefore decline acceding to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Southwark.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 confirmed the statement of his hon. colleague; the Bill was only intended to carry into effect powers already possessed by the Company, upon whom it conferred no new powers whatsoever.Mr. Ward
 did not divide the House, and the Bill was read a second time.Mr. C. Culvert
 said, there were only two quarters to which application could be made for the Returns desired by the hon. Member,—the Home-office, and Foreign Embassies. Supposing the accounts to be obtained from the former, he was not aware upon what principle we could tax the courtesy of the foreign ambassadors to furnish this species of information; over these parties the House had no power.Lord Lowther
 said, that to call for the names of all persons who had gone abroad during these four years, was, in his opinion, a most unwarrantable interference with private affairs, He had no objection to a return of the amount of fees received at the Foreign-office, and of the total number of passports granted; but, to a return of the names of the persons he decidedly objected; not for any public reason, but because it was an interference with private affairs, which could not be justified unless it conduced to the attainment of some public benefit.Mr. Peel
 said, that with respect to the committee for which he meant to move to-morrow, the hon. Baronet had mistaken the object of it. The object of that committee would be merely to inquire how far it was possible to give greater freedom to the trade in Beer, and would have no reference to the tax on Malt.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 affirmed that the hon. Member was still in error as to the facts, as much as the petition alluded to had been, with respect to the charge of bribery against Lord Charles Somerset. The hon. Member alluded to the locality of his (Mr. Brougham's) position in the House, which he observed had become changed about that time. Now it did so happen that in this he was altogether wrong. The transactions respecting the petition were in 1825. They were begun, continued, and ended in eight days, in the month of May or June in that year. It was a great mistake, therefore, to connect his change of position in that House with the circumstance, for that change did not occur until long after. He repeated, that he would never again trouble the House on this subject, for he had given the same explanation two or three years before.Mr. Brougham
1076 in moving for certain Returns from the Court of Session in Scotland, took the opportunity of asking the right hon. Secretary of State a question, in relation to the late learned Lord Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas. That learned Lord had retired, and had, as he believed, obtained a pension on the ground of infirm health. By the 29th of Geo. 3rd., his Majesty was empowered to grant to the Judges of the Courts of Westminster Hall certain annuities, upon their retiring from the Bench. That power was limited to cases in which these learned persons had been fifteen years upon the Bench, with the excepted case of persons who retired from permanent infirmity. The question he put was;
1076Mr. C. Fergusson
 said, that the Government had it not in contemplation to make any special appointment of Deputy Speaker. The Chief Baron of the Exchequer, by virtue of his appointment as such, and the Master of the Rolls in the same manner, would sit in the House of Lords in the absence of the Lord Chancellor. There was no intention of making any special or individual appointment; there would be a general appointment; but in any? event, whether Lord Wynford was appointed or not, there was no intention whatever of attaching any salary to the office.Mr. Peel
 presented a Petition from one thousand persons, comprising the principal land-owners of three hundreds in the county of Salop, praying for the repeal of the Act relating to the Duty on Malt.Mr. Slaney
1073llllll1072ll107110701069 said, I do not rise, Sir, to oppose the Motion, nor to enter into a discussion upon the merits of this Petition, but as it relates to a colonial subject, it gives me an opportunity of correcting a misrepresentation arising, no doubt, from misapprehension, but at the same time a misrepresentation than which any one more gross or more unfounded it has never fallen to my lot to hear of, with respect to the conduct of public men. I am quite sure that neither of the hon. Gentlemen who took part in the discussion of Friday
1073llllll1072ll107110701069Mr. Brougham
1090lllll1089 said, he must declare in the outset that the allegations in the petition, as he had been able to collect them, if not gross misstatements were at least perversions of fact. He should not think it requisite to go through the speech of the hon. Member in detail, but would rest
1090lllll1089Lord Lowther
109410931092l1091l begged leave, as one acquainted with all the details of the transactions which had given birth to the present petition, to say a few words in explanation of those transactions. He confidently assured the House, that there was never submitted to its notice a petition more full of misrepresentations, and of most unfounded insinuations, than that just presented by the hon. Member for Dover. The noble Lord who presided over the Woods and Forests, had so fully and satisfactorily explained the circumstances connected with the original granting and subsequent renewal of the Crown-land lease held by the Duke of Newcastle, that he need not say another word on that part of the subject. He would merely ask the hon. Member for what purpose he had entered into a statement of that lease having been granted in the first instance in the time of George 2nd, to the Earl of Lincoln, the nephew of the then First Lord of the Treasury, unless for the purpose of insinuating something by which he perhaps might hope to win a cheer? The hon. Member was in error as to the facts connected with the last renewal of the Duke of Newcastle's lease, which took place in 1806, and not in 1815, as the hon. Member had stated. The noble Duke's rent on that occasion was raised 2,000109410931092l1091lMr. F. Clinton
1099Articuli Ecclesiœ,'haut homme'1098'haut homme'Fiant electiones liberœ, procul e causa timoris1097quocunque nomine gaudetl10961095 said, he could not subscribe to the doctrine advanced by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, that referring the petition under consideration to a select, committee would be either unprecedented or unconstitutional. He was not wanting in respect to the hon. Member or to the noble Lord who had preceded him; but still he thought that the House was bound not to make their statements, or the statements of any individual, the ground for not referring a petition like the present to a select committee. He said, the House was bound to determine for itself how far the allegations of the petitioners were or were not borne out by fact, and this it could best do by the proposed inquiry. "But before I enter," said the hon. Baronet, "into a detail of the grounds on which I shall vote for referring the petition before the House to a select committee, I beg leave to say a very few words on a subject, which personally affects myself, and which, though not directly connected with that before the House, is not, perhaps, altogether out of place. The noble Duke who has been so frequently alluded to in the course of the present, discussion, has done me the honour of addressing me a letter, with reference to a statement which he charges me with having made in this House a few evenings since. The letter to which I allude, was addressed to me through the medium of one of the public journals. I by no means complain of this circumstance; indeed, I have no complaint to make of
1099Articuli Ecclesiœ,'haut homme'1098'haut homme'Fiant electiones liberœ, procul e causa timoris1097quocunque nomine gaudetl10961095Sir F. Burdett
 observed, that it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last but one, and the noble Lord (Lord Lowther), had left the question exactly where they found it. He was induced to think, from the early part of the speech of the hon. Member for Newark, that that hon. Gentleman was about to proclaim that he was setting up for himself; but at the latter end of the speech he had fairly confessed that he came in on the interest of the Duke of Newcastle, confessing at the same time that he was sitting there in defiance of all the rules and regulations of Parliament. The hon. Gentleman had been sent there by a Peer, and had avowed it. Did not the hon. Gentleman tell the House that he had received his seat from a Peer of Parliament?Mr. Hobhouse
1114l"They affirm that, in addition to the one hundred and sixty so elected, thirty-seven more of your honourable Members are elected by nineteen places, in none of which the number of voters exceeds one hundred. And this your petitioners are ready to prove.""They affirm that, in addition to the seventy honourable Members so chosen, ninety more of your honourable Members are elected by forty-six places, in none of which the number of voters exceeds fifty. And this your petitioners are ready to prove."They affirm that seventy of your honourable Members are returned by thirty-five places, where the right of voting is vested in Burgage and other tenures of a similar description; and in which it would be to trifle with the patience of your honourable House to mention any number of voters whatever, the elections at the places alluded to being notoriously a mere matter of form. And this your petitioners are ready to prove.1113Cries of "No, no," from Mr. Sadler11121111*;*;*1110Quam vellem nescire literas1109prĉudi miserum est1108de-ex officio1107. —I will make bold to ask the hon. Member, Is it so? Did not the hon. Member say, on a former occasion, that his Grace the Duke of Newcastle had allowed him to vote as he pleased. What was the inference (Mr. Hobhouse con-
1114l"They affirm that, in addition to the one hundred and sixty so elected, thirty-seven more of your honourable Members are elected by nineteen places, in none of which the number of voters exceeds one hundred. And this your petitioners are ready to prove.""They affirm that, in addition to the seventy honourable Members so chosen, ninety more of your honourable Members are elected by forty-six places, in none of which the number of voters exceeds fifty. And this your petitioners are ready to prove."They affirm that seventy of your honourable Members are returned by thirty-five places, where the right of voting is vested in Burgage and other tenures of a similar description; and in which it would be to trifle with the patience of your honourable House to mention any number of voters whatever, the elections at the places alluded to being notoriously a mere matter of form. And this your petitioners are ready to prove.1113Cries of "No, no," from Mr. Sadler11121111*;*;*1110Quam vellem nescire literas1109prĉudi miserum est1108de-ex officio1107Mr. Hobhouse
1120hear1119hear11181117l1116Hobhouse said, that the first question the House had to decide was, should the petition be brought up? the next question was, should it be referred to a committee? The discussion had better be confined to the first question; and he should so confine it, as conforming to what he thought was the general sense of the House. His principal object in rising was, to prevent its being supposed that he supported the petition. He meant to decide the question without making it a political question. He had read the letters of the noble Duke, and he saw no reason why, from the profession of the noble Duke's political tenets, he should be favourably disposed towards him; but he saw no reason, at the same time, why the petition should be considered in a different light from other similar petitions, and he should go to a vote on it on the principles of common sense and reason. There were two questions involved in the petition in relation to the Crown-lands— one, whether a case had been made out to call for the interference of Parliament; and the other, if the House, after establishing the interference of the Duke, should take any other step: and with respect to the Crown-lands, the case was, he thought, a complete failure. The hon. Member who had said he was vehement because he represented a populous place, had admitted that he had found all the Commissioners of Woods and Forests courteous and attentive. [Mr. 1120hear1119hear11181117l1116HobhouseMr. Secretary Peel
 said, that in consequence of a new arrangement which he understood had been made, respecting the salary attached to the office of Treasurer of the Navy, he should withdraw, for the present, the motion on that subject of which he had given notice. In so doing, he reserved to himself the right of renewing his motion, if the new arrangement did not satisfy him, whenever the vote for the salary of the Treasurer of the Navy should come regularly before them in the Navy Estimates.Sir James Graham
 said, he did not think the hon. Baronet had made out a satisfactory case for the recent appointment to the office of Treasurer of the Navy. The hon. Baronet said it was intended to retain both the offices of Treasurer of the Navy and the Paymaster, until an opportunity occurred for abolishing the latter. That seemed to be an admission that both the offices were useless. In his opinion, the Treasurership of the Navy might have been attached to some other office held by a privy councillor, by which the entire salary would have been saved. The recent junction of the offices of President of the Board of Trade and the Master of the Mint, afforded a precedent which might have been followed with regard to the office of Treasurer of the Navy. He did not however intend to enter at length into discussion on the point. He would take an opportunity of consulting his friends around him, and if he perceived that he was likely to be supported, he would on some future occasion, before the vote passed with respect to the Treasurer of the Navy, move the resolution of which he had given notice.Sir J. Graham
11361135lll was desirous of noticing one point with respect to the superannuations, which amounted to 500,00011361135lllMr. Maberly
hear, hearllll1140llprima facie113911381137 said, that he always felt pleasure in communicating any information he could, consistently with the proper performance of his public duty as a Minister of the Crown. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down wished Government to make out a case for the increase in the number of men in the naval service in 1830, as compared with the number in 1817. It would be admitted that it might not be consistent with the interests of the country for Ministers to state in detail the particular reasons of a given increase in a particular year. Was it not obvious that there might exist reasons connected with our naval power, which would justify an increase in that department, and at the same time dictate silence on the subject? However, so far as his duty permitted, he would give the information required. The hon. Member took the year 1817, and asked why in 1830 should our naval force amount to 29,000 men, when in 1817 it was fixed at 19,000? This question imposed upon Government the task of accounting for an increase of 10,000 men. In 1830 we had 3,000 marines more than in 1817. The House had discussed the policy of keeping up an effective establishment of marines, and it appeared to be admitted that there was something so peculiar in the constitution and character of that force, that it was necessary to keep it up in its present state, if we wished to have an effective Navy. The Marines at present amounted to 9,000 men, of whom 4,500 were afloat, and 4,500 on shore. These divisions alternately replaced each other, and each thus became qualified for the full discharge of the peculiar duties of such a force. The 4,500 who remained at home were occupied in mixed naval and military duties; and it appeared that even those who were ashore were only two nights out of three in bed; so that their duties were not trifling. He felt the full force of observing principles of econo-
hear, hearllll1140llprima facie113911381137Mr. Peel
l11421141 said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed disposed to taunt him for postponing his motion: he would shortly state his reasons for its postponement. When he first heard of the appointment of Mr. F. Lewis, he was forcibly struck by the discrepancy between the resolution proposed and carried by Ministers, as an amendment on his own motion, and their conduct in disposing of the Treasurership of the Navy. The resolution of Ministers was, "that it is the opinion of this House that in every establishment of the State every saving-ought to be made consistently with the due performance of the public service, and without the violation of existing engagements;" this was agreed to on the 12th of
l11421141Sir J. Graham
 said, he had never presumed to advise the hon. Baronet on the subject of his Motion. The hon. Baronet twice gave notice of his intention to move a resolution condemnatory of the mode in which Government had filled up the office of Treasurer of the Navy; and after hearing the explanation offered to-night in reference to that transaction, the hon. Baronet still persisted in his resolution, and pledged himself to bring the question before the House: let the hon. Baronet do so. He repeated, he gave the hon. Baronet no advice on the subject: he only expressed a hope that the hon. Baronet would persevere in proposing a resolution "condemnatory of Government." The hon. Baronet appeared to draw a distinction without a difference between a "condemnatory resolution" and a "vote of censure" upon the Government. For his own part he could see no difference. He had already expressed a hope that the hon. Baronet would bring forward his resolution, which had certainly been twice postponed, and was now glad to hear that the hon. Baronet intended to do so. In saying this he was far from attempting to dictate to him, he would not even presume to advise the hon. Baronet; he only expressed a hope that the motion would be brought forward, in order to obtain the opinion of the House on the subject of the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers.Mr. Peel
 said, it would be destructive to the commerce of the country if our naval force were further reduced. He knew it to be a fact, that British merchant ships had more than once owed their safety to the protection of French men-of-war. It was disgraceful to the country.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that he could not have voted for the proposition of reducing the number of men, nor could he support the proposition that the vote should be taken for six months only, because he was unwilling, under existing circumstances, to give foreign nations an idea that we thought of nothing but reducing our force.Mr. George Lamb
l proposed a Resolution, that towards making-good the supply granted to his Majesty, the sum of 12,000,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 took this opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman if he intended to introduce a new set of Stamp Laws and to increase the Stamps on Legacies. He had heard in the legal profession that such was the intention of Government, and that it had already given rise to great speculation.Mr. Gordon
 said, that for some time past, the consolidation of the Stamp-laws had been under consideration, and that he hoped shortly to be able to lay the result before the House. It was natural that, the consolidation of acts should give rise to speculation, but, as to debate the subject at that time would tend to increase that speculation, he should abstain from entering into further particulars.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then moved a Resolution,—That there should be issued and applied, for advances on account of Public Works, &c. any sums paid into the Exchequer by the 5th April, 1831.—Agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the charge for management was a matter of engagement which could not be broken through.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it no more a matter of engagement than others which had been modified.Mr. Maberly
 said, that in deference to the anxiety of the House to proceed to the appointed business of the evening, he should forbear to offer to its attention some facts and observations which he had found no opportunity of doing upon a former evening upon this truly important subject—one, which he was prepared to prove was of vital interest, both to the Kingdom and the Colonies. As a right hon. Gentleman below him had given notice of a motion on that subject, he should reserve to that opportunity his humble but earnest endeavours to persuade Parliament to save the Colonies from ruin, and itself from the merited charge of the most infatuated policy and the most fatal injustice.Mr. C. Pallmer
 said, that at the suggestion of the hon. Baronet (sir C. Burrell), but not at the suggestion of his Majesty's Ministers, he would withdraw his motion. He had no wish, to use the words of the other hon. Baronet, to "show up "anybody.Colonel Sibthorp
l moved for an account of the number of Passports granted to persons to go abroad in the years 1826, 1827, 1828, and 1829, specifying the number issued in each year, the names of the parties, and the countries for which the passports were made out. The hon. Member took occasion to complain of the evils of absenteeism, and expressed his conviction of the propriety of imposing a tax upon absentees. If such a tax were properly imposed it would cause 4,000,000lColonel Sibthorp
 said, the farmers had been fed on hope so long, that they almost had become skeletons, and would speedily be starved to death, if they were not relieved.Colonel Sibthorp
"Your Petitioners do therefore most humbly pray your honourable House to take into consideration the matter of this Petition, and to address his Majesty, that no further lease may be granted to his Grace; but that the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Land Revenues may be directed to sell or let the same in suitable lots, whereby the revenue will be increased, the property improved, the town enriched, and the inhabitants restored to the free and independent exercise of the inviolable right of electing Members of their own choice to represent the Borough of Newark in your honourable House.""Your Petitioners do, however, humbly submit to your honourable House, that, whatever right, or rather whatever power his Grace may have 'to do what he will with his own' private estate, he has not the right, and ought to be deprived of the power, of using the property he holds as lessee of the Crown to the injury of the Borough, the oppression of the inhabitants; and that the said lease ought not to be renewed, by reason that for election purposes his Grace has used the same in a manner that has diminished the present and reversionary value of the public property; impeded the progress of local improvement; repressed the growing prosperity of the town, and controlled the reasonable comforts and enjoyments of the inhabitants; and further, that by the possession of such lease, his Grace has been enabled to keep alive, from year to year, the most odious distinctions, and to foment feelings of dissension and party spirit; and finally, he has employed the power it conferred to overawe the inhabitants, control the election, and thus secure the return of his own Members to serve in your honourable House; all which facts your Petitioners are ready, and pray leave, to prove at the Bar of your honourable House, or in such other manner as to its wisdom may seem meet."The persons concerned in convening the said meeting deemed it expedient, as well as respectful, to inform his Grace by letter of their intention to hold the same, to announce its object, and to invite his attendance thereat; to which his Grace replied, neither denying the act of giving such notices, nor disavowing the motive, but justifying the same, upon a claim of a right 'to do what he would with his own.'1088"That a large portion of the electors, as well of those who had, as of those who had not, received notice to quit their lands and houses, convened a public meeting of the inhabitants, to
1088"That since the said election, every one of the tenants of his Grace who so voted for Mr. Serjeant Wilde has received notice to quit his holding, whether the same was house or land; and whether it constituted a part of the estate of the Crown or the private property of his Grace:"That although many of the Duke's tenants, under the influence before-mentioned, did vote for Mr. Sadler, yet there were many others who, choosing to exercise their elective franchise independently, gave their votes to the opposing candidate:"That the return of Mr. Sadler was obtained by means of the prevailing belief, founded upon the experience of former elections, that such of the Duke's tenants as should vote against his Grace's nominee would be expelled from their tenancies; and many of the voters who polled for Mr. Sadler avowed that but for the fear of such result they would have polled for the other candidate:"That Mr. Sadler was returned by the Mayor as duly elected:"That Mr. Serjeant Wilde likewise became a candidate to represent this Borough at the same election:"That at that particular period there were many momentous questions pending in both Houses of Parliament, deeply affecting the tranquillity and prosperity of a large portion of his Majesty's subjects; and his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, as your Petitioners have been informed, was most anxious for a dissolution of Parliament, in order, as he represented, that the wishes of the people might be ascertained from the return of the Members to your honourable House:"That, in the month of February last, Sir William Henry Clinton, who had been returned under the influence of the Duke to sit for this borough, accepted the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, when Michael Thomas Sadler, esq. who had previously been unknown to the inhabitants, became a candidate for the vacant seat, and was taken round the town by the agent of the Duke and receiver of his rents, and introduced to his Grace's tenants as the successor of the retired Member:1087"Your Petitioners further humbly show, that
1087l"Your Petitioners humbly show to your honourable House, that such Crown lands are of very great value, a large portion thereof abutting on the principal roads adjoining to the densely-populated parts of Newark, and being applicable to building purposes, and, in point of situation, of equal value to contiguous land (also within the borough), which has realized upwards of 800l"That although your Petitioners admit, that the possession by his Grace the Duke of Newcastle of the property hereinbefore mentioned as forming his own private estate would naturally confer upon him a large portion of that influence which ordinarily results from the relation of landlord and tenant, yet your Petitioners humbly represent, that it would be wholly insufficient to control the election of Members of the said borough, unaided by the enormous unconstitutional power over the voters, which his Grace has acquired by the possession of the Crown lands, and by his system of managing the same:"That the evil of such system has not been limited to the injury of the Crown lands, but has extended its pernicious influence to the town, as the lands form a complete girdle round the town, and the system referred to necessarily prevents those local improvements which the increasing wealth and advantageous position of Newark would otherwise give rise to; and your Petitioners humbly show, that, but for the contractive operation of this system, the growing population of Newark would naturally have spread itself over a considerable portion of that part of the Crown land which immediately adjoins the town; whereas, the poorer class of the people have been compelled to reside in confined and unwholesome courts and alleys (a large portion of the tenements in which belong to the Duke's private estate, and are thus enhanced in nominal value), while the more opulent inhabitants are deprived of those essential comforts to which their situation entitles them, and of those conveniences which their increasing commerce imperiously demands; and even the limited accommodation at present afforded to some of the inhabitants, by a temporary and uncertain occupation of the land, they can only obtain by the surrender of their political independence, and by what his Grace terms "entire confidence and a grateful co-operation" with him in his political views, and in the election of those Members for the borough who are nominated by himself:1086"That the political control of the Borough is of much more value to his Grace than any advantage he could derive from the improvement of the Crown lands; and, therefore, in order to preserve such control, the said Crown
1086"That the houses and lands comprised in the said lease are occupied by tenants at will, and the land (with the exception of two of the most distant farms, held by influential families) is let in small allotments to persons residing, and having votes and interest, within the Borough, as yearly tenants; and although the same is let at what would, under other circumstances, be deemed full average rents, yet, from the exclusive possession by the Duke of the whole of such land, and from the peculiar pursuits of the principal trading population, he is enabled, by means of the great accommodation it affords, to exercise, and he does actually exercise, an absolute control over the votes of a great portion of the inhabitants:"That in the year 1815, a lease of the said property was granted to the present Duke of Newcastle, for a term which will expire in the year 1836:"That the family of his Grace first became possessed of the said property in the first year of his late Majesty (1760), when a lease was granted by the Crown; which, by the recital therein contained, appears to have been granted by the advice of the then Duke of Newcastle (who was at that time First Lord of the Treasury) to the then Earl of Lincoln, he having married a sister of his Grace:"That his Grace the Duke of Newcastle possesses a lease from his late Majesty (granted by the advice of his Privy Council) of the manor of Newark, with all the quit rents and copyhold rents, and of the markets, the bridges, the tolls, and fairs therein, and of the rights of fishing in the river Trent, and the rivers and streams within the manor; and also of several houses situate within the town, together with upwards of nine hundred and sixty acres of land, lying-in and contiguous to the Borough, and almost encircling the same, the whole being within the township of Newark, and the several parishes of Averham, Stoke, Balderton, and Farndon:"That there are not appertinent to, or in the neighbourhood of, Newark, any town lands or open pastures for the accommodation of the freemen and other inhabitants of the town."That the town possesses considerable commercial advantages, and from its being surrounded by the best markets for grain, and from having the facilities which good water carnage affords, it has, during the last few years, very greatly increased in wealth and population, and is become one of the principal towns in the kingdom in the manufacture of malt and of meal, largely supplying Manchester, Sheffield, and other manufacturing towns with those commodities:1085"Showeth,—That Newark is a Borough Town, containing two thousand houses, or thereabouts, with a population of nearly ten thousand; and
1085"To the Right hon. the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled.—The humble Petition of the undersigned Inhabitants of the Town of Newark-upon-Trent, in the County of Nottingham.1084lllllllll108310821081108010791078 rose to present a Petition from the inhabitants of the borough of Newark. The subject involved a question of great importance, and he therefore hoped for the patient indulgence of the House to the few observations which he should feel it his duty to make on it. He regretted that the subject had not fallen into other hands, and the more so as it would be his duty, before he sat down, to state certain matters inculpating the conduct of a noble Lord, who, though he could not be said to be unrepresented in that House, was not present to defend himself. If the charges which he had to make on behalf of the petitioners should receive a sufficient answer by those who might address the House on the part of the noble Duke, it would give him great satisfaction to acknowledge his error, and to retract any thing in which he might find he had been misinformed. He hoped the House would do its duty by supporting the Motion which he intended to found upon the petition, as that Motion would rest, not so much upon the inculpation of the noble Lord as on general principles. He would now briefly state the substance of the Petition. The borough of Newark consisted of 2,000 houses, and about 10,000 inhabitants. Considerable property in the town was possessed by the Duke of Newcastle, to whom 200 houses belonged. Large portions of property, in some instances amounting to eighty or ninety houses, belonging to other individuals. The property belonging to the Duke in the town was not of itself sufficient to give him a commanding influence in the town, though he held the manor with copyhold right, the market, and the tolls on that and the bridges. His principal influence was derived from being the lessee of a portion of land, amounting to 960 acres, which formed a sort of belt surrounding the town for about three fourths of its circumference. This property included the land in the
"Your Petitioners do therefore most humbly pray your honourable House to take into consideration the matter of this Petition, and to address his Majesty, that no further lease may be granted to his Grace; but that the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Land Revenues may be directed to sell or let the same in suitable lots, whereby the revenue will be increased, the property improved, the town enriched, and the inhabitants restored to the free and independent exercise of the inviolable right of electing Members of their own choice to represent the Borough of Newark in your honourable House.""Your Petitioners do, however, humbly submit to your honourable House, that, whatever right, or rather whatever power his Grace may have 'to do what he will with his own' private estate, he has not the right, and ought to be deprived of the power, of using the property he holds as lessee of the Crown to the injury of the Borough, the oppression of the inhabitants; and that the said lease ought not to be renewed, by reason that for election purposes his Grace has used the same in a manner that has diminished the present and reversionary value of the public property; impeded the progress of local improvement; repressed the growing prosperity of the town, and controlled the reasonable comforts and enjoyments of the inhabitants; and further, that by the possession of such lease, his Grace has been enabled to keep alive, from year to year, the most odious distinctions, and to foment feelings of dissension and party spirit; and finally, he has employed the power it conferred to overawe the inhabitants, control the election, and thus secure the return of his own Members to serve in your honourable House; all which facts your Petitioners are ready, and pray leave, to prove at the Bar of your honourable House, or in such other manner as to its wisdom may seem meet."The persons concerned in convening the said meeting deemed it expedient, as well as respectful, to inform his Grace by letter of their intention to hold the same, to announce its object, and to invite his attendance thereat; to which his Grace replied, neither denying the act of giving such notices, nor disavowing the motive, but justifying the same, upon a claim of a right 'to do what he would with his own.'1088"That a large portion of the electors, as well of those who had, as of those who had not, received notice to quit their lands and houses, convened a public meeting of the inhabitants, to
1088"That since the said election, every one of the tenants of his Grace who so voted for Mr. Serjeant Wilde has received notice to quit his holding, whether the same was house or land; and whether it constituted a part of the estate of the Crown or the private property of his Grace:"That although many of the Duke's tenants, under the influence before-mentioned, did vote for Mr. Sadler, yet there were many others who, choosing to exercise their elective franchise independently, gave their votes to the opposing candidate:"That the return of Mr. Sadler was obtained by means of the prevailing belief, founded upon the experience of former elections, that such of the Duke's tenants as should vote against his Grace's nominee would be expelled from their tenancies; and many of the voters who polled for Mr. Sadler avowed that but for the fear of such result they would have polled for the other candidate:"That Mr. Sadler was returned by the Mayor as duly elected:"That Mr. Serjeant Wilde likewise became a candidate to represent this Borough at the same election:"That at that particular period there were many momentous questions pending in both Houses of Parliament, deeply affecting the tranquillity and prosperity of a large portion of his Majesty's subjects; and his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, as your Petitioners have been informed, was most anxious for a dissolution of Parliament, in order, as he represented, that the wishes of the people might be ascertained from the return of the Members to your honourable House:"That, in the month of February last, Sir William Henry Clinton, who had been returned under the influence of the Duke to sit for this borough, accepted the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, when Michael Thomas Sadler, esq. who had previously been unknown to the inhabitants, became a candidate for the vacant seat, and was taken round the town by the agent of the Duke and receiver of his rents, and introduced to his Grace's tenants as the successor of the retired Member:1087"Your Petitioners further humbly show, that
1087l"Your Petitioners humbly show to your honourable House, that such Crown lands are of very great value, a large portion thereof abutting on the principal roads adjoining to the densely-populated parts of Newark, and being applicable to building purposes, and, in point of situation, of equal value to contiguous land (also within the borough), which has realized upwards of 800l"That although your Petitioners admit, that the possession by his Grace the Duke of Newcastle of the property hereinbefore mentioned as forming his own private estate would naturally confer upon him a large portion of that influence which ordinarily results from the relation of landlord and tenant, yet your Petitioners humbly represent, that it would be wholly insufficient to control the election of Members of the said borough, unaided by the enormous unconstitutional power over the voters, which his Grace has acquired by the possession of the Crown lands, and by his system of managing the same:"That the evil of such system has not been limited to the injury of the Crown lands, but has extended its pernicious influence to the town, as the lands form a complete girdle round the town, and the system referred to necessarily prevents those local improvements which the increasing wealth and advantageous position of Newark would otherwise give rise to; and your Petitioners humbly show, that, but for the contractive operation of this system, the growing population of Newark would naturally have spread itself over a considerable portion of that part of the Crown land which immediately adjoins the town; whereas, the poorer class of the people have been compelled to reside in confined and unwholesome courts and alleys (a large portion of the tenements in which belong to the Duke's private estate, and are thus enhanced in nominal value), while the more opulent inhabitants are deprived of those essential comforts to which their situation entitles them, and of those conveniences which their increasing commerce imperiously demands; and even the limited accommodation at present afforded to some of the inhabitants, by a temporary and uncertain occupation of the land, they can only obtain by the surrender of their political independence, and by what his Grace terms "entire confidence and a grateful co-operation" with him in his political views, and in the election of those Members for the borough who are nominated by himself:1086"That the political control of the Borough is of much more value to his Grace than any advantage he could derive from the improvement of the Crown lands; and, therefore, in order to preserve such control, the said Crown
1086"That the houses and lands comprised in the said lease are occupied by tenants at will, and the land (with the exception of two of the most distant farms, held by influential families) is let in small allotments to persons residing, and having votes and interest, within the Borough, as yearly tenants; and although the same is let at what would, under other circumstances, be deemed full average rents, yet, from the exclusive possession by the Duke of the whole of such land, and from the peculiar pursuits of the principal trading population, he is enabled, by means of the great accommodation it affords, to exercise, and he does actually exercise, an absolute control over the votes of a great portion of the inhabitants:"That in the year 1815, a lease of the said property was granted to the present Duke of Newcastle, for a term which will expire in the year 1836:"That the family of his Grace first became possessed of the said property in the first year of his late Majesty (1760), when a lease was granted by the Crown; which, by the recital therein contained, appears to have been granted by the advice of the then Duke of Newcastle (who was at that time First Lord of the Treasury) to the then Earl of Lincoln, he having married a sister of his Grace:"That his Grace the Duke of Newcastle possesses a lease from his late Majesty (granted by the advice of his Privy Council) of the manor of Newark, with all the quit rents and copyhold rents, and of the markets, the bridges, the tolls, and fairs therein, and of the rights of fishing in the river Trent, and the rivers and streams within the manor; and also of several houses situate within the town, together with upwards of nine hundred and sixty acres of land, lying-in and contiguous to the Borough, and almost encircling the same, the whole being within the township of Newark, and the several parishes of Averham, Stoke, Balderton, and Farndon:"That there are not appertinent to, or in the neighbourhood of, Newark, any town lands or open pastures for the accommodation of the freemen and other inhabitants of the town."That the town possesses considerable commercial advantages, and from its being surrounded by the best markets for grain, and from having the facilities which good water carnage affords, it has, during the last few years, very greatly increased in wealth and population, and is become one of the principal towns in the kingdom in the manufacture of malt and of meal, largely supplying Manchester, Sheffield, and other manufacturing towns with those commodities:1085"Showeth,—That Newark is a Borough Town, containing two thousand houses, or thereabouts, with a population of nearly ten thousand; and
1085"To the Right hon. the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled.—The humble Petition of the undersigned Inhabitants of the Town of Newark-upon-Trent, in the County of Nottingham.1084lllllllll108310821081108010791078Mr. Poulett Thomson
dsds10751074 said, that the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed the House had but done him justice in saying that he had no intention of attacking any particular individual. He had no such intention; but he would not
dsds10751074Mr. D. W. Harvey
lllll1100ll said, that as he had already given notice of a motion for the 30th of March, to bring the state and value of the Crown-lands before the House, he would not trespass then long upon its attention. With the constitutional branch of the subject, which had been so ably dwelt upon by the hon. Baronet, he should have nothing to do; for indeed he saw no difference between the conduct of the Duke of Newcastle in turning his property where he could into borough-representation profit, and that, of any other noble Lord, or hon. Member, who indulged in similar speculations. Indeed, be should avoid studiously the hypocrisy of taking partial views with reference to such transactions. But it had been asked, did they mean to interfere with the rights of the Crown, or to dictate what ought to be the condition or disposition of the rents of the Crown? To this he would at once reply, Yes. This was not the property of the Crown—on the contrary, it had been bought at a high and perilous price for the people. Ever since the time of Queen Anne the people had been paying 600,000lllll1100llMr. D. W. Harvey
l1077l presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the town of Drogheda, complaining of great distress. The petitioners stated, that there were 16,000 inhabitants in the town, 8,000 of whom were so destitute of food, clothing, or fuel, as to be dependent on a subscription for their relief, the amount of which did not exceed 25l1077lMr. O'Connell
 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholic inhabitants of the island of Grenada, praying for the removal of all Colonial Disabilities.Mr. O'Connell
1065 presented three Petitions from Staffordshire against the payment of labourers' wages otherwise than in money. The first Petition was from the Chamber of Commerce of the Staffordshire Potteries, stating that in their district no fewer than thirty thousand persons were employed in the manufacture of china and earthenware, and that the depression arising from other sources was much augmented by the practice of paying wages partly by Truck. The barter was not conducted upon equal terms. The masters obliged their workmen to take such articles as they pleased at their own price, and the latter were frequently compelled to sell these at a considerable
1065Mr. Littleton
 reminded the Chancellor of the Exchequer that, early in last Session, he agreed to bring in a bill to regulate the Malt Duty. He had not yet pressed the right hon. Gentleman to perform that promise, because he wished and expected that the delay would induce him to change a bill to regulate the Malt into a bill to repeal the Malt Duty altogether.Mr. Portman
 felt considerable difficulty in voting upon this question on the spur of the moment, and without the opportunity of sufficiently investigating the Estimates. He could not go so far as the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) in contending that no pensions should be granted to public servants. He was not surprised, however, at his proposition, considering the extravagant principles acted on by the Government; though he could not concur in it. As to the example of America, he (Mr. Labouchere) had conversed with sensible men of that country who lamented the system, and he (Mr. Labouchere) had witnessed the most discreditable scenes in consequence of the adoption of that system. Individuals had retired from the public service into beggary. He disapproved of the American system with respect to pensions, which had been frequently commended by the hon. Member for Aberdeen, and was far from desiring its introduction into this country: at the same time he wished to have no pensions except such as the House might be disposed to grant. As he thought the reductions were not such as the country had a right to expect, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Aberdeen.Mr. Labouchere
 observed, that foreign Wool was necessary to the prosperity of our manufactures, and if we laid heavy taxes upon foreign Wool, we should exclude our manufactures from the foreign market.Mr. Irving
1132lllll11311130lllll1129 thought the whole establishment most extraordinary, and considering the changes that had been made, the Estimates appeared to him nearly the same as last year, and the deductions were upon the large items. When he considered that the Chancellor of the Exchequer knew that it was almost the unanimous opinion of the Finance Committee that the payment of the Marines and Navy, and of all the officers of both should be consolidated, the vote was brought forward in utter disregard of that Committee, The hon. Baronet had said that great deductions had taken place since the war, but he (Mr. Hume) asked, were they not to expect deductions as soon as the country was in a state of peace? Notwithstanding the great credit which Ministers took to them-
1132lllll11311130lllll1129Mr. Hume
 asked the hon. Baronet to state the aggregate amount of the Estimates.Mr. Hume
 said that, as new arrangements were forming by the Ministry, he trusted that some new arrangement would be formed by which the millions of revenue arising from the Customs and Excise, now under the separate control of Government, might be placed under the more immediate control of the House of Commons.Mr. Hume
 thought that the Company ought to pay more. They did not pay half enough.Mr. Hume
 thought that the Bank ought to be paid less than it was at present for management.Mr. Hume
 objected to going on at that late hour.Mr. Hume
 had no wish to produce such an effect.Mr. Hume
 said, in explanation, that he had never denied that Peers might exert influence over some of the Members of that House; but the allegation that the noble Duke in question had exerted influence over him, he positively denied.Mr. Sadler
 said, although this subject, in the event of a select committee being granted, would again come under discussion, yet he did not think that he should be discharging his duty if he suffered the present occasion to pass without endeavouring to explain the circumstances which had been so misrepresented. And in the first place he begged to ask the hon. Member for Dover whether the petition he had presented was carried at. a town's meeting, and whether the full notice of that meeting had been given.Mr. Sadler
. —I did not say so.Mr. Sadler
110511041103ex post facto1102 said, the hon. Gentleman, in his opinion, had not given a specific answer as to whether the petition emanated from a public meeting. It was of importance to ascertain this point, be-cause the principal part of the voters of Newark had already expressed their opinion of the petition, as he looked upon it to be, to all intents and purposes, an election petition. As the hon. Gentleman, in his answer to the question just put, had alluded, and somewhat facetiously, to the circumstances by which the notice was prevented reaching him (Mr. Sadler), he would say a word or two on that subject. All the travel that that letter had had was entirely owing to accidents; and had it reached him in time he should have had no hesitation in answering it in the negative; and he should have done this because he had already waited upon his constituents since his election, and when circumstances called him to a distant part of the country he did not see that he was bound to return to Newark, after having so recently visited it. Besides which, he said, that he should have had to appear before a committee, every one of whom had been his opponents at the election. The letter, however, as he had already stated, was delayed by some mistake; not that he made any accusation against the Post-master, But first it had gone to
110511041103ex post facto1102Mr. Sadler
 said, the petition was carried at a public meeting, convened after full notice, not only to all persons residing in the town, but one of the notices was even sent to the hon. Gentleman himself. The letter, however, which contained it, travelled in the most extraordinary way about the country, and it was not till long after, that the hon. Gentleman wrote a letter to the Chairman of the meeting, stating that he should have written before on this subject had the letter come to him sooner.Mr. P. Thompson
1121, in moving that it be referred to a Select Committee, said, he should not, after the discussion the subject had already undergone, trespass for any time on the attention of the House. He had heard but one word which could induce him to think the Motion might be spared; but on consideration he did not think even that word would prove sufficient. The noble Lord (Lowther) and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) had assured the House that the Government had no intention at present to renew the Crown-leases granted to the Duke of Newcastle. He thanked them for the announcement, and rejoiced at it; but it did not give any security to the people of Newark. The present Government might, be determined not to renew the leases, but the Duke of Newcastle was at the head of a considerable party in the State—he might come into power, and, by means of that power, procure to himself a grant of the leases which the present Government might be inclined to withhold. The right hon. Gentleman said the committee would be a committee appointed to inquire into motives. He would say, it was a committee to inquire into facts. If, as he thought it would prove, that these facts were correct, then the House was bound to interfere, not to punish the Duke of Newcastle, however oppressive might have been his conduct; not to shake the last election; but to prevent the renewal of leases which have proved injurious to the properties of those who live under them, and which are calculated to support a violation of the spirit of the
1121Mr. P. Thompson
 said, there was less foreign Wool in the country now, than at the same period of the year during the last thirty years. He was opposed to laying duties upon the importation of foreign Wool, which would be very injurious to our manufactures.Mr. H. Davis
l1068lldss.sss1067 presented a Petition from the West-India Merchants and Planters of Bristol, complaining of severe distress, and praying for a reduction of the duties on Sugar and Rum. The hon. Member said, that much as the House had heard of distress from various parts of the country, there was no pressure so severe as that which was felt in the West-India Colonies. This subject had been so forcibly and clearly explained by the noble Lord, who had on a late occasion presented a similar Petition from the West-India Planters and Merchants of the Metropolis, that he (Mr. Davis) was relieved from a considerable part of that duty which he should otherwise have felt himself called upon to perform: still there were many points which he must briefly refer to in order to explain the evils under which the petitioners were suffering, and the remedies which they
l1068lldss.sss1067Mr. H. Davis
 presented Petitions from several parishes in the counties of Kent and Sussex, praying for the repeal of the Malt-tax.Mr. Burrell
 took this opportunity of observing, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended merely to make a small remission of the duty on Beer, he was afraid his committee would do no good. Unless the tax were taken off Malt, the Ministers would give no relief. He begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if such were his intention?Sir C. Burrell
 hoped his hon. friend (Colonel Sibthorp) would see the justice of the right hon. Gentleman's objection, and. not press the motion.Sir C. Burrell
ll1064ddsds said, when the Duke of Richmond brought forward a motion on the subject of the Wool-trade last Session, he was met by the assertion of a noble Lord, that the distress was not general but partial. He did not mean to say that the noble Lord had descended to a misrepresentation; no doubt he had been misinformed, and was not acquainted with the true state of the country with respect to the Wool-trade, any more than with respect to other matters of equal interest and importance. At the very time that this statement was made, it appeared that the price of long Wool, which used to be 1ll1064ddsdsSir C. Burrell
 was afraid that the noble Lord, who had been alluded to by his hon. friend the Member for Shoreham, (Sir C. Burrell) did not always obtain the best authority for his statements. Improvements were spoken of; he hoped they might not turn out to be fallacious, like some of the statements of the noble Lord. One thing was certain, that the petitioners saw no signs of amendment.Sir E. Knatchbull
 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of Romney Marsh, complaining of great depression in the Wool-Trade, and praying for the imposition of duties on the importation of foreign Wool. The hon. baronet observed, that he could testify, from his own knowledge, that the depression of the Wool-trade was very considerable, and that great losses had been sustained by the growers, in consequence of the low price of that article.Sir E. Knatchbull
 moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.Sir G. Clerk
1128lllllllll1127lllddd1126l.,lllll1125ll.,llll1124lllll1123 then addressed the Committee, but in consequence of the low tone of voice in which he spoke was frequently inaudible in the gallery. He was understood to say, that had it not been for the observations which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Cumberland, he should have confined himself to a simple enumeration of the number of men and the amount of wages which would be wanted for the
1128lllllllll1127lllddd1126l.,lllll1125ll.,llll1124lllll1123Sir George Clerk
ll said, the aggregate amount of the Estimates was 5,595,000llSir G. Clerk
 understood that, as the number of men had been voted, the hon. Member could have no objection to pay their wages. He assured the hon. Member that to delay this Resolution would be an inconvenience to the public service.Sir G. Clerk
sll then proposed the following Resolution—That 980,200sllSir George Clerk
l said that, with respect to the questions that had been put to him by the hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) opposite, he begged to observe, that the annuities and allowances of reduced officers were regulated by act of Parliament. As to the commissioners of the Navy and Victualling Boards, they could not properly be said to hold their offices for life. They were appointed by warrant, though it was not customary to remove them; and they were entitled to retire on a superannuation allowance of three-fourths of the salary of 1,000lSir G. Clerk
1133 begged, as his evidence had been referred to by the hon. Member, to say a few words. The House must recollect that the hon. Member had said the same thing last year; and he had then been answered as now, that it was an unfair mode of stating that evidence. The question put to him was, what would be a proper peace establishment for the navy? He replied, that it was almost impossible to give an answer to the question, for it depended upon so many circumstances. Being then pressed by an hon. Member on the Committee to say something on the subject, he stated that he must know the exact state of things; that if we were at perfect peace without the slightest prospect or chance of war, and no power interfering with our commerce or any chance of it, he did not think we ought to have a man-of-war on the sea. The remark was, that that was not a proper thing; and then, at the request of the Committee, he had stated what he had thought was the lowest establishment for each station. That was the manner in which the evidence had been drawn from him; and he again said that it was unfair to use it as the hon. Member had done. Looking around, the Committee could not consider the country in a state in which his answer had supposed it. War had just closed between Rio Janeiro and Buenos Ayres, which had interfered with our merchants, who were still applying for a force to protect their trade on the South American station; and although the Burmese war had indeed closed, there were rising settlements in New Holland which required a naval force to protect them. With respect to doing away with half of our Marines, he (Sir G. Cockburn) had never argued that the number of Marines now voted was absolutely required. But they constituted a most valuable corps, and it was desirable to have such a body ready for duty in case of war, instead of taking raw men, who
1133Sir G. Cockburn
1134ll, even on the principle of economy, could not concur with the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) in his proposition for reducing the Marines, although there were other points in the Estimates on which he should agree with him in voting for a reduction. With respect to the Treasurership of the Navy, after a resolution passed by the House on the 12th of February, "that it is the opinion of this House, that in all the establishments of the country, civil and military, every saving ought, to be made which can be effected," he had not expected to see that office separated from other duties, for the first time, when a new writ was moved for Radnor a few days after. When he (Sir George Warrender) first came to the House, the Treasurership of the Navy was filled by Mr. Rose, who, though he disbursed 19,000,0001134llSir G. Warrender
 said, that the higher orders of persons never went to the Foreign-office, but to foreign ambassadors, and this return, therefore, would be an unfair one. It would include only a certain class of persons, whom he thought it unfair to show up.Sir G. Warrender
 contended, that the hon. Baronet opposite had not made out his case. He could not conceive any necessity for such a large force of Marines, for he knew that between 1790 and 1793 fifty regiments of the line had been embarked in the Navy, and he also knew that they had behaved in the most gallant manner. Sir G. Cockburn had only stated that Marines accustomed to the sea were better than land soldiers.Sir John Wrottesley
 said, that not one out of twenty persons going abroad went to the Foreign-office, since the ambassador's passport was more cheap and more useful.Sir M. W. Ridley
 begged to slate his reasons for voting against the Amendment. While Spain was carrying on war against South America, he could not vote for reducing our seamen, because it would peril our commerce. Again, while Russia had a force of thirteen sail in the Black Sea, and of twelve sail in the Levant, and France was fitting out an expedition, he thought our Naval power would not bear reduction.Sir R. Wilson
1115Be seasoned with such viands.Be made as soft as yours, and let their palatesWhy sweat they under burthens? Let their bedsLet them be free?Because you bought them. Shall I say to youYou use in abject and in slavish parts,Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules,You have among you many a purchased slave, supported the prayer of the petition. He said that, upon a former night, he had alluded to this transaction, and if his feelings of disgust had been strongly excited by it then, they had been still more increased by the facts that had come out during this discussion. He saw persons avowedly sent to that House as representatives of the Peers who sent them there, and who were compelled to give their votes as the persons by whose influence they had been elected chose to order them. If the present system were continued, it would make the people all slaves instead of freemen. The hon. Member for Newark had denied the influence of the Duke of Newcastle over him; but was it not true that forty persons had been turned out of their homes because they had given their votes for the other candidate? It was said, that one of the electors explained that he had given his vote for the wrong candidate by mistake, and that then the Duke's agent told him that the notice to quit was also a mistake. The hon. Member said no coercion had been used; but if that were the case, how came he to be Member for Newark? The hon. Member had written a book from which a quotation had already been made, but one was to be found equally applicable to the hon. Member and his patron in a great dramatic writer:—
1115Be seasoned with such viands.Be made as soft as yours, and let their palatesWhy sweat they under burthens? Let their bedsLet them be free?Because you bought them. Shall I say to youYou use in abject and in slavish parts,Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules,You have among you many a purchased slave,Sir R. Wilson
prima facieCries of 'Question.'prima facie1106 said, he only rose for one moment, lest his silence should be misconstrued, as he conceived there was no appearance of the Ministers opposing the present Motion. He should only, therefore, notice the observation of the hon. Member who spoke last, that it would be in vain to deprive the Duke of Newcastle of his influence in the town of Newark. He honestly and candidly confessed, that during the continuance of the present system, were he a borough proprietor, he should avail himself unscrupulously of that interest for himself or his friends: therefore he did not complain of the Duke of Newcastle doing the same; but they did not want to deprive the Duke of his fair influence in the existing state of things at Newark. All they asked was, that he should not be privileged to exercise a right which he derived from the country, against the true interests of that country, and that he should not have the means of preventing the improvement of the national revenue, and of violating the Constitution. Let the House inquire into the facts stated by the petitioners, and see whether there did not exist abuses which were capable of due correction.
prima facieCries of 'Question.'prima facie1106Lord Howick
 said, that a petition had been put into his hands, some time since, complaining of the manner of voting in the town of Wexford. He had not thought it right to present it, fearing it might be mistaken for the Wexford Election Petition. If, after the Committee appointed to consider that election had formed their decision, he should bring forward the petition intrusted to his care, he hoped it would not be said that the petitioners had endeavoured, first to obtain their remedy by means of the Committee, and afterwards by another means; he had purposely withheld the petition.Lord John Russell
 moved the second reading of the St. Giles's Vestry Bill.Lord John Russell
 said, he did not wish to divide the House on this bill, but begged the noble Lord to postpone his motion for the second reading till the parties interested had had an opportunity of knowing something of the bill. Besides, a public committee was now sitting upon Select Vestries, and it might be well to wait for their Report on the subject.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, there had been a lawsuit in the parish, and it was necessary to determine upon some mode of settling these parochial differences.Mr. Ward
1147l.l.l.l. was of opinion that the state of the parish required the immediate interposition of Parliament. The parish was in debt to the amount of 10,0001147l.l.l.l.Sir T. Freemantle
 declined postponing his motion, on the ground that the Bill would be advantageous to the parish.Lord J. Russell
nisi prius,1152 thought, that in the description which the hon. Member had given, he had taken the exception for the rule, and had supposed that these enormous expenses were incurred in all cases, instead of a very few. He lamented that they should be incurred in any case; but he must say, that in his opinion the hon. Member had over-rated the evil. In admitting that the expense was sometimes very large he must observe that the occasion on which large expenses were incurred ought to be recollected. It was generally a contest between near relations; and when that was the case, every body was aware that they were carried on in a more bitter spirit than contests between any other persons. But besides this, the question to be decided was always one of importance: it was not merely whether a man should be deprived of his civil liberty, but whether he should cease to be treated as a rational creature. For the purpose of proving or denying the imputation of insanity, clouds of witnesses were required, and surely no one could object to expenses incurred to put an end to so terrible a charge as that of
nisi prius,1152The Solicitor General
1153 believed that no one who remembered the cases of the Earl of Portsmouth and Mr. Davies could doubt that the present system was defective. He should propose to go further than the hon. Member, and inquire into the whole system. He thought that a committee should be appointed to inquire into the
1153Mr. R. Gordon
1160l.s1159l.l.l.l.l.l.S.l.1.s.l.115811571156l.l.l.l.l.1155 rose, he said, in the fulfilment of a pledge he had given last Session, to bring forward an inquiry into the conduct of an individual against whom he was under the necessity of making a charge of the gravest nature, and which had already been the subject of inquiry before a Select Committee. He assured the House that he felt considerable pain in the discharge of this duty. The world was so apt to attribute motives of a private nature to an accuser, that their sympathies were generally excited against him, and in favour of the accused. If that were generally the case, his situation was tenfold more embarrassing, as he had, in some degree, to contend with the resolutions of a Committee, appointed at his own suggestion. Nothing but a sense of public duty and a feeling of the public interest, which was involved to a great extent in the present inquiry, could have induced him to proceed with such a charge. On that occasion too he had not only to accuse Mr. Nash, he had also to prefer a serious accusation against one of the principal Ministers of the Crown— the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the Committee that right hon. Gentleman had exerted his talents and his influence to throw a cloak over the delinquencies of Mr. Nash; and, instead of discharging the duty of an impartial judge, he had assumed the character of a zealous partisan. The House would recollect, that last Session a Select Committee had been appointed to inquire into the conduct of Mr.
1160l.s1159l.l.l.l.l.l.S.l.1.s.l.115811571156l.l.l.l.l.1155Colonel Davies
1162no, no.1161 said, that last year the hon. and gallant Officer had made some hardy assertions, which were certainly not borne out by the evidence laid before the Committee; and by the results attendant upon those assertions they could judge how far his assertions of this year were to be regarded. Every man who attended that Committee must have seen how much at variance those assertions were with the facts. The hon. and gallant Member had thought proper to charge him with defending Mr. Nash at the expense of integrity, honour, and every principle which should govern the conduct of a public man. Yes, he told the House that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had throughout acted like a partisan, proceeding as if he were determined, right or wrong, to carry Mr. Nash through, and that in the most improper and corrupt manner; that was language which the hon. Member was not entitled to apply to him anywhere else, except in that House; but those who heard it would judge of it by the former unproved assertions of the hon. Member; and by those unproved statements of his they would judge how far it was likely that, if
1162no, no.1161The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Member for Preston had drawn up the Resolution of acquittal; and knowing that, as well as the other proceedings of the Committee, he could not help feeling the utmost astonishment at the statement of the hon. and gallant Officer. He really expected from him something more of generosity candour, and good feeling, than he had manifested on that occasion. The hon. Member must have misunderstood or garbled the evidence, to come to so extraordinary a conclusion.Mr. Arbuthnot
 said, he was not present at the last sitting of the Committee, and probably he should not have arrived at the same decision as that of the majority of the Committee. He contended, that no lease should be given to a surveyor of lands which it should become his duty to set a value on; and he put it to the noble Lord, whether he had not refused lately to sign leases upon that very ground, until the Attorney and Solicitor Generals had given their opinion upon the subject; for there had been a recent attempt to set aside a lease, owing to the circumstance of its having been made to the surveyor. He called the attention of the House to the Resolution agreed to by the Committee, in which they stated "that although there was no evidence that any loss had accrued from the conduct of Mr. Nash, yet it was the opinion of the Committee that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests ought not to grant leases to surveyors or architects having any immediate interest, or being liable to be called on to give their opinions, until their duty, as surveyors or architects, had ceased." Thus, by implication, they did convey an opinion that Mr. Nash had an immediate interest in the lands which had been made the subject of observation. Besides, it was most important to observe, that the charges made last year would have been much more full and numerous had they not been brought forward at so late a period of the last Session. During the present Session there would be time enough to go through them all, and his hon. and gallant friend had pledged himself to bring forward further charges if the House would only grant him a fresh Committee.Mr. Warburton
 said, he was a member of the Regent's Canal Committee, and there the conduct of Mr. Nash had been made the subject of discussion. The facts there brought to light were certainly such as enabled him to bear favourable testimony to the conduct of Mr. Nash.Mr. Ward
l.1164l. said, that having been one of the minority on that Committee he would support the Motion, and he contended that the transaction between Mr. Nash and Mr. Edwards looked very like a partnership concern, though he was bound to admit that no evidence proving that had been adduced before the Committee. What struck him as singular was that Mr. Edwards had accepted of Mr. Nash 4,500l.1164l.Mr. Maberly
 was of opinion, as the charges had been already investigated, that there was no occasion for further inquiry.Mr. Rumbold
, in reply, said that he congratulated the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Calcraft) on having found his voice, for it was long since the House had heard its melodious sounds. No doubt there were very proper reasons for his silence, what they were he did not know—perhaps it was owing to his getting among those whom he had been lampooning and abusing all his political life. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had certainly refused to consent to two very reasonable resolutions in the Committee—one being only the statement of a matter of fact, and the other stating that there were sufficient grounds to justify the inquiry. He had no wish to re-try Mr. Nash; but he wanted an examination into fresh matter, which owing to the lateness of the inquiry last year, he had not been able to bring forward. At all events, he trusted that Government would cause the houses in the Regent's Park, and Regent-street, and still more Buckingham Palace, to be surveyed; for he thought that a great deal of foul play would in consequence come to light. With respect to the division of the Committee, Lord Milton, Sir Joseph Yorke, Mr. W. Whitmore and Mr. Warburton were unable to be present at the division; and he could answer for it, that all those hon. Members would have voted for the resolution which the Chancellor of the Exchequer opposed. As the Minister had said, that he would not allow the Committee, he (Colonel Davies) knew that the matter was settled, and that it would be of no use to press a division. At all events, he had the satisfaction of knowing that he had discharged his duty to the House and the country.Colonel Davies
1217shallwill,121612151214ex officio12131212121112101209ex officioex officio12081207ex officioex officio1206ex officioex officio1205ex officio1204ex officioex officio1203ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officio1202ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officio in continuation. As his hon. and learned friend seemed to be unaware of the law in this case, he would tell him, that if Mr. Alexander had been tried on an 1217shallwill,121612151214ex officio12131212121112101209ex officioex officio12081207ex officioex officio1206ex officioex officio1205ex officio1204ex officioex officio1203ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officio1202ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officioThe Attorney General
1224ex officioex officio1223Cleanse the stuffed bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heartthe in furia propria;Detrahere et pellem nitidus qua quisque per ora Cederet introrsum turpis.Detrahere et pellem nitidus qua quisque per ora Cederet introrsum turpis.1.l.1222***l.1221l.1220ex officio;12191218ex officiosesquipedalia verba, said: Sir, I am unwilling to enter upon the subject before the House at this late hour, but, mindful of early friendship and old associations, I cannot abstain from delivering a few words. Sir, I must say, that notwithstanding the multitudinous topics in which the hon. and learned Gentleman below me indulged, and the entertainment he afforded the House by those drolleries, which would, however, in my opinion, have been better calculated for any other stage,—notwithstanding those gibes and gambols, and 1224ex officioex officio1223Cleanse the stuffed bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heartthe in furia propria;Detrahere et pellem nitidus qua quisque per ora Cederet introrsum turpis.Detrahere et pellem nitidus qua quisque per ora Cederet introrsum turpis.1.l.1222***l.1221l.1220ex officio;12191218ex officiosesquipedalia verba,Sir F. Burdett
1226ex officio1225 confessed, that after the elaborate proemium of the learned Gentleman he felt considerable surprise at the Motion with which he had concluded. After the learned Gentleman's three months' gestation, and three hours of painful delivery, he was considering with what miraculous conception the learned Member was likely to teem; and was surprised when the learned Member concluded with a motion for papers, every one of which he held in his hand. He had expected some notice of a legislative proposition, or a grand constitutional assertion of principle. Notwithstanding his learned friend's offer to produce the papers required on parliamentary grounds, a justification might be made out for refusing them. It was quite natural, indeed, the learned Gentleman having intimated that at a future period he might possibly found some vote of censure upon those papers, with respect to the Attorney General's
1226ex officio1225Mr. Secretary Peel
1201ex officio1200 said, that in rising at so late an hour as between twelve and one o'clock to address them upon that important occasion, he trusted that if he expressed any difficulty, it would not be supposed that it was a difficulty to answer every topic which his hon. and learned friend had introduced into his speech; but that it would be understood to be the difficulty which he should feel in commanding the attention of the House while he proceeded to investigate the charges which his learned friend had brought against him. It was more especially necessary that he should throw himself upon the candour, the indulgence, and the patience of the House, because he should abstain from all attempt to introduce any of that entertaining kind of matter with which his learned friend had enlivened his observations. On the contrary, it would be his object to endeavour to separate from the real question all those extraneous and unconnected topics —which, however, had formed the principal part of his learned friend's speech— and to confine himself to those few points the consideration of which was essential, in order to enable the House to come to a sound decision upon the subject. In the first place, he could not help thinking that the manner in which his learned friend had treated the question showed that he was acting under the influence resulting from his considering himself as a kind of professional advocate for the person principally concerned. He could not. otherwise account for the partial manner in which his learned friend had presented the facts of the case to the view of the House. There was also another kind of influence by which it was evident that his learned friend had been actuated. To his great surprise, he had condescended to state that Mr. Alexander, the libeller, was the representative of the party in that House, and in the country, of which his hon. and learned friend declared himself to be a member. He had certainly never expected an avowal of that nature. However right his learned friend might be in questioning the propriety of the prosecu-
1201ex officio1200The Attorney General
12281227 in continuation said, he would give the learned Gentleman full power and opportunity of explaining, and if he said he had not used the words, he would entirely and fully believe that he did not mean to use them. But that such words fell from his mouth in the heat of debate, was certain, and he would appeal to the recollection of the learned Member's friends in confirmation of the statement. The learned Gentleman had said that the object of the prosecution was to beat down the powerful Protestant party with which Mr. Alexander was connected, and of which he was supposed to be the representative; and his learned friend, the Attorney General, had to consider what effect might be produced by the libels in question on parties in this country and in Ireland. He would give the opponents of the Catholic Relief Bill in Parliament credit for feelings of sincere pleasure if their predictions with respect to the results of that measure should be falsified; he was sure that they would join the advocates and supporters of the bill in rejoicing at that: but studious efforts were making at the period of these libels to unsettle the public mind in Ireland, with a view to retard the beneficial effects expected from the Relief Bill, and keep the Protestant mind in that country in a state of excitation by the hope that other influence was about to prevail with the Sovereign over that of his Ministers, and that the Protestant monopoly would be reestablished. Whatever might be the effect of those inflammatory paragraphs in this country, they were certainly calculated to be productive of much mischief in Ireland, where parties were so much excited, and where all means of fomenting that
12281227Mr. Peel
1231 denied that he wished to domineer over the Press. Nothing that he had ever said, or that he had ever done, could justify such a conclusion. He was obliged to take the law as he found it, and by the law he had been guided in all his proceedings. The hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced a case which was not then under discussion. That case, he begged leave to observe, must stand on its own merits, and must not be judged in conjunction with any other case. The hon. and learned member, he must say, was mistaken in his facts. The Duke of Wellington would have been happy, on the trial which had taken place, to have prosecuted the author of the libel; but up to the time of the trial no author appeared that could be prosecuted. If the author had been forthcoming, he would have been prosecuted. He begged leave to correct one error into
1231The Attorney General
 observed, that in his opinion the noble Duke had been very ill-advised in carrying on these prosecutions. He ought, like his predecessors, to have treated these libels with the contempt they deserved. If all animadversions on the conduct of public men were to be prosecuted as libels, there was an end of the freedom of the Press.Sir R. Heron
1232 defended the course pursued by his hon. and learned friend. The hon. and learned Member for Clare had observed, that during the period of agitation, no prosecution for libel had been instituted. This, he conceived, was a very proper mode of proceeding. Government was unwilling, while the country was in a ferment, to add to the excitation, which was felt on all sides. But when the great measure was carried which created so much warmth, then, and then only, did the Government
1232The Solicitor General
1234 said, that the hon. Member for Aberdeen had so totally misrepresented what he had said, that he must be allowed, to lay claim to contradict it at
1234Sir F. Burdett
 said, that words were not strong enough to describe the misrepresentation into which the hon. Member for Aberdeen had fallen with respect to him. So far from differing with his hon. and learned friend, the Attorney General, he entirely agreed with him; nay, he had not heard one single sentence from his hon. and learned friend in which he did not concur. In what he had said upon the point on which the hon. Member for Aberdeen had so strangely mistaken him, he was speaking of himself personally, and of the abuse which had been levelled at him. He had expressly stated that his hon. and learned friend had acted upon no other than the just and proper feeling of preventing the continuance of excitement in this country and in Ireland. He entertained the same feeling, and if he had been told that a chaplain of the Duke of Cumberland had made such a political charge against a Minister, or that any other person had made such a personal charge against the Lord Chancellor, he should have been ready to suggest the institution of a prosecution. All he had contended for was, that there had been no conspiracy to ruin an individual; and he said again, that he did not know that he himself had been mixed up in the libel, until the author of the libel had been prosecuted. Knowing the deliberate intention in which these libels were published, he begged to be understood as perfectly concurring in the prosecutions against the author of them.Mr. Peel
 said, that he also had been most strangely misrepresented by the hon. Member for Aberdeen. He had not put the libel against the Lord Chancellor foremost in the battle, except so far as it was the first of a series of libels. He was willing to put that out of the question, and to defend the rest of the prosecutions.The Solicitor General
 said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman supposed that he had intimated that the hon. and learned Gentleman had any personal connexion with the Morning Journal he was mistaken. He had said no such thing; and if he had misrepresented any part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech, he had done so unintentionally.Mr. Peel
 thought that a part, at least, of the present Motion, could not be complied with. The exact words in which each verdict was pronounced, and the exact words in which the juries recommended the defendant to mercy, were not, he apprehended, recorded.Mr. Tennyson
 said, that still he did not know that they were part of the record.Mr. Tennyson
 confessed he did not approve, generally speaking, of individuals presenting their opinions to the House upon matters which did not particularly relate to themselves. However, he admitted that in some instances this course might be attended with advantage, and was disposed to consider this as one of those cases. He recommended the statements and arguments contained in the petition to the attention of the House. Last Session Mr. Burgess petitioned the House on the subject of the Currency; the Petition had been since published, and was well deserving of their consideration.Mr. Western
1154 said, that the law had in different ages and times been the subject of attack; but in the direction of this branch of the jurisdiction of his Court, there never had been an impeachment on the honour and integrity or humanity of any Lord Chancellor. He, therefore, for one, would not consent to the revision of a system, against which there never had been any complaint; but he should be glad to discuss the question, whether there might not be some cases in which the Chancellor might, with advantage, submit the decision to a Judge, instead of sending it, as at present, to be adjudicated upon before Commissioners. So far he
1154Sir C. Wetherell
.—What I complain of is that your's is not common, but uncommon law.Sir Charles Wetherell
Order. —I used no such expression: neither those words, nor words synonymous; nor any thing which a fair man could so construe. [Order.Sir C. Wetherell
1199ex officio11981197cries of "No, no."119611951194a laugh, as Sir C. Wetherell pointed to Mr. Brougham,1193quantumpropter dignitatem,1192forum domesticum,ex officio1191non meus hic sermo.119011891188locus pœnitentiæNullum tamen simile est idem.1187ex officioex officioflebile ludibrium,1186Clericus Parliamentarian.118511841183gallopade1182sui juris,sui juris,1181hear, hearsans culottes,11801179RexRex meusEgo1178ex officio11771176ex officiol.l.1175ex officioofficio1174exLaughter.tertium quid,ex officioex officioex officio1173ex officioex officio,ex officioex officio1172ex officiovirtute officii,1171indictum puta,quod Deus avertatde personâde recum quibusdam aliis.ex officio11701169ex officiohear, hear.1168a little before ten o'clock rose [1199ex officio11981197cries of "No, no."119611951194a laugh, as Sir C. Wetherell pointed to Mr. Brougham,1193quantumpropter dignitatem,1192forum domesticum,ex officio1191non meus hic sermo.119011891188locus pœnitentiæNullum tamen simile est idem.1187ex officioex officioflebile ludibrium,1186Clericus Parliamentarian.118511841183gallopade1182sui juris,sui juris,1181hear, hearsans culottes,11801179RexRex meusEgo1178ex officio11771176ex officiol.l.1175ex officioofficio1174exLaughter.tertium quid,ex officioex officioex officio1173ex officioex officio,ex officioex officio1172ex officiovirtute officii,1171indictum puta,quod Deus avertatde personâde recum quibusdam aliis.ex officio11701169ex officiohear, hear.1168a little before ten o'clockSir C. Wetherell
 said, that they were handed up in writing, and did, or ought to exist.Sir C. Wetherell
ex officio1237The sabbath shines no day of rest to them:1236ipsissimis verbis1235 said, that at that late hour he should compress his reply into a very small compass. When he professed himself to be a Tory, he could not of course labour under so great a delusion as to expect to meet with the approbation of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Westminster. No amalgamation, no reciprocity of sentiments could take place between, them upon the Tory creed; but
ex officio1237The sabbath shines no day of rest to them:1236ipsissimis verbis1235Sir C. Wetherell
12301229 observed, that it appeared to him that the prosecutions which had been carried on by the learned Attorney General showed evidently a desire to assume a dictation over the public Press. He felt extremely sorry for the manner in which the learned Gentleman had defended himself. He had asserted that the course which he had taken did not give him any additional advantage; but he would, on the contrary, show that it did give him a very great advantage over Mr. Alexander. After the learned Gentleman had first stirred in these proceedings he had changed his course, he had turned round, he had instituted two prosecutions, the one on account of Lord Lyndhurst, the second with reference to another of his Majesty's Ministers. By his first proceeding he had filed a sort of Bill of Discovery, and of that he had subsequently taken advantage. It was a singular fact, that during the heat of the contest, before the Catholic Relief Bill had been passed, when agitation prevailed to so extensive a degree, not a single prosecution for libel had been instituted. The prosecution which gave rise to the present Motion did not take place until
12301229Mr. O'Connell
nisi prius. said, he was disposed to defer the discussion till after the Bill had been brought in. The appointment of practising barristers had been referred to as a cause of delay and expense. In one respect it might be so; and if they went further, and no barrister was appointed a judge, then we might hope to get rid of a portion of our present legal expenses, by getting rid of the technicalities which practising barristers were sure to acquire, and the love of which they carried with them to the bench. He agreed with the Solicitor General, that to attack a part, instead of the whole of the system, might prove an aggravation rather than a mitigation of the evil. If it were said that a difficulty existed in the law, requiring the inquiry to be carried on in the immediate neighbourhood of the alleged lunatic, the answer was, that the object of this Bill was to change the law, and of course to get rid of such a difficulty. It was of no use in such a question to talk of the hurry of nisi prius.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that the last Committee had decided upon good grounds, and the House ought not to go into any further investigation. [The hon. Member was disposed to address the House at greater length but was interrupted by cries of "Question."]Mr. Protheroe
1165 said, he would appeal to the House whether the Committee could have come to the resolutions they did on the case, as stated by the hon. Member? The fact was, that the gallant Member, in giving what he called a fair narrative of the case, quoted the answers given to his own questions only, and not one tittle of any other part of the evidence. The gallant Member had complained that he had been called upon to prove his expressions; there was very good reason for this, his expressions were charges against Mr. Nash, and he was, therefore, required to prove them. The gallant Member had also complained that the Committee and the witnesses were against him; but he had forgotten to mention that there was one person still more against him, and that was no other than the gallant Member himself; for never had he seen anything managed with so much ill-temper, or with such an appearance of personal animosity, and such a total neglect of everything like public duty. It had been proved in evidence, that there was no connivance whatever between Mr. Nash and Mr. Edwards: on the contrary, when the ground in Pall-Mall-East was leased to Mr. Edwards, that gentleman was abroad, and when he returned, finding that the ground was much more than he wanted,
1165Mr. Calcraft
 was also much interrupted by cries of "Question!" The resolutions of the Committee, he said, did not go to the entire acquittal of Mr. Nash. In his opinion, that gentleman's conduct had. been not only improper, but illegal, and he put it to the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests to say whether he could approve of it.Mr. Monck
 was of opinion, that these prosecutions had not been instituted so much with a view to gratify the personal feelings of the persons attacked, which some hon. Members seemed to suppose, as to defend the character of illustrious men, which was the property of their country. He agreed with Mr. Burke that men could not look with indifference on the contempt of their fellow creatures; and the law was therefore bound to shield them from calumny. It seemed to be a mistake to suppose that these prosecutions had not been begun on account of the excitation occasioned by the passing of the Catholic Relief Bill. Many persons, both in England and Ireland, were anxious that the agitation occasioned by the discussions on the Catholic Question should survive the passing of the bill. To allow that bill to have fair play it was necessary that the Government should watch over its infancy. It was bound to prevent busy and disappointed men from marring the effect of that healing measure. He would not enter into the questions which had been mooted as to the law of libel, he having only risen to explain that, in his opinion, these prosecutions were necessary in order to prevent the spreading of calumnious assertions, that were only intended to preserve alive a spirit of dissatisfaction.Mr. North
 said, he was extremely glad that this Motion had been made, and he was quite sure the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir C. Wetherell) had read the Attorney General such a lecture as he could never forget to the last day of his existence. The Attorney General, in explanation, had said, that he did not mean to set himself up as a dictator of the Press: but he could assure the Attorney General that the impression of those around him (Mr. Hume) was, that such was his meaning. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) was very different, and did him great credit. He had always, both in public and private, praised the right hon. Gentleman for treating the calumnies of the Press with the contempt they deserved. He was sorry that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Westminster, had attempted to palliate the conduct of the Attorney General by alluding to that of attornies general in the most odious times of tyranny. The present state of the libel law was a disgrace to the country. The Attorney General had said, that he was favourable to a well-regulated Press: but what did the Attorney General mean by this? His meaning was evident,—namely, a Press regulated by himself. He had never heard a weaker defence than that of the Attorney General, and when the papers distributed it over the land, he was quite sure that the voice of the public would induce him to stay his hand. He had never heard any individual defend the libel on the Lord Chancellor. On the contrary, every body condemned it, and rejoiced at the punishment of it. He protested, however, against this being put, as the Solicitor General had put it, in the front of the battle. He was glad that these prosecutions had been begun without the knowledge of the Secretary for the Home Department. This confirmed his opinion of the right hon. Gentleman's character. He hoped the country would know this: he hoped the country would know that the right hon. Gentleman was not aware of these prosecutions until the day after they were brought into Court. He trusted the Attorney General would learn caution by the proceedings of this night, and he thanked the learned Gentleman for bringing forward this Motion.Mr. Hume
 said, the present mode of conducting such inquiries had been successful in its results. None of the decisions of Commissioners and Juries had been reversed.Dr. Phillimore
 was of opinion, that it was very right to bring this subject before the House, and he conceived that his Majesty's Attorney General could not feel any hardship in consequence of its being so introduced. He had some observations to make on the subject, which he would offer when a distinct proposition relative to this subject was before the House. He admitted that the question had been very well argued on legal grounds; but there were some other points connected with it which he deemed very important, and which, if no other individual thought proper to bring forward, he certainly would.Mr. Sadler
, in reply, said he had no intention to intrench on the jurisdiction of the Chancellor, but to substitute what he thought would be a better tribunal than the present for the determination of lunacy cases. The excellent manner in which Lord Teynham's case was tried in three days instead of three weeks, satisfied him that the change he proposed would be a great improvement.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, the petition was neither more nor less than a dissertation on the state of the country. He dared to say the petitioner might be a very respectable gentleman, but he must object to the expense of recording his lucubrations upon the Journals of the House.Mr. M. A. Taylor
1151nisi prius1150viva vocenisi priusau fait,1149l.l.l.l. said, he would only trouble the House for a short time upon the Motion of which he had given notice. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would give him credit for being influenced by no motive except the good of the country, and by no view except that of benefitting the public by remedying existing abuses. He begged to be heard. If the House supposed he was going to enter into the original question respecting the custody of lunatics by the Crown, they would find themselves happily mistaken. He would take up the subject upon other grounds, and very briefly. The expense of Commissions of Lunacy had struck the public eye, and affected the public mind forcibly. He would bring forward one or two cases, which would not trench upon the duty of the Commissioners. There was, for instance, the case of Lord Portsmouth. It was dreadful to contemplate the expense that had been incurred in this; it amounted to something about 25,0001151nisi prius1150viva vocenisi priusau fait,1149l.l.l.l.Mr. M. A. Taylor
, in moving that the petition be printed, concurred with the hon. Member for Essex as to the general inexpediency of individuals presenting what might be called political treatises to the House in the shape of petitions; but he thought that justice should be done to the views of the petitioner; and although he differed from some of them, he considered it desirable to present the petition, without wishing thereby to encourage the practice alluded to.Mr. Huskisson
 presented a Petition from Henry Burgess, of Lombard-street, London, on the subject of the Distress of the Country. The right hon. Gentleman observed, that in the view which the petitioner took of the distressed state of the country he partly concurred, but he did not concur in the propriety of the remedy suggested by the petitioner, an issue of small notes, and extension of the Currency.Mr. Huskisson
hear, hear.l. said, he should vote against the Motion, for it appeared to him to be nothing more than an attempt to get a Committee to find fault with a former Committee. But though he opposed the Committee, he was authorised by Mr. Nash (who was now suffering under illness severely aggravated by the repeated attacks upon him) to state that he had no desire to avoid any inquiry; and that he was ready to adopt any course which the House might impose, as he felt that nothing could be adduced against him to touch either his honour or his character. One fact he would state concerning Mr. Nash, because it would serve to show the spirit by which he was actuated. When the new street was first in agitation, Foley-house and gardens were offered for sale, and Mr. Nash gave 4,000hear, hear.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
ex officioex officio observed, that he agreed in general with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Westminster, but that he must on principle condemn the practice of resorting to ex officioex officioLord Althorp
 wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he proposed or not to proceed with any Estimates on Friday, as some were fixed for that day.Mr. Bernal
 said, that it was the general understanding that the Estimates should be proceeded with on Mondays and Fridays; but that, bowing to the feeling of the House, he had sacrificed one of those days for the East Retford question. He did not, however, therefore think it necessary to fix some other day for the motion of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1240 said, he had some reason to complain, and did not therefore expect to have been attacked. He had fixed the Committee of Supply for Friday, but had given way, against his own wish, because Members were anxious to proceed with the East Retford Bill, He would not oppose the
1240The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not feel disposed to place much confidence in any statement the Chancellor of the Exchequer was likely to make, and therefore he thought the House ought not to defer the motion for taking into consideration the state of the country. A large division in the favour of the motion for an inquiry might make the Members come forward with a statement suitable to the wants and wishes of the people. It was not his wish to oppose Government, but to strengthen it, if it was to enable it to give some relief to the country.Colonel Davies
 confessed, that he was one of those who thought the distress of the country very severe, but he did not think it was of so revolutionary a tendency as the hon. Member for Cornwall (Sir R. Vivian) seemed to suppose. The country would, he believed, wait patiently, though the hon. Member for Shaftesbury's motion were postponed, and that motion would, he thought, be most suitably made, after the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made his statement. If that were not what the country had a right to expect of Government—did not give the people sufficient relief—all their Representatives might then unite in one body to compel it. He would not wish that they should do that till the government had developed its plans, for he was not without hope that the Government, by repealing the tax on Beer, and adopting other financial measures of a similar nature, would render it unnecessary for the Representatives of the people to take on themselves the task of chiding it. He thought, therefore, that the hon. Member's motion should be postponed.Mr. Harvey
 said, he was far from wishing to postpone the hon. Member's motion, but it would have been more convenient had the hon. Member selected a day on which he might have brought it forward without asking other hon. Members to give up their plans. He was anxious, and so were all the Ministers, that the motion should come on. He was anxious that the country should not be kept in suspense as to the several plans of relief hon. Members had to propose. It should be remembered, however, that Ministers had given way to the hon. Member for Bletchingley (Mr. Tennyson) and had consented to postpone the Estimates beyond Friday, in order that the hon. Member's motion relative to East Retford (and as that had been three years before the House, it was high time it should be settled,) might not be deprived of the support of his friends who were about to go on circuit. Having thus given way, the Ministers were then asked to forego their arrangement, and make way for the hon. Member for Shaftesbury. It has been hinted that the hon. Member may introduce his motion as an amendment to any other motion, and if he means to do so it will be a great convenience to the House to be informed whether or not such is his intention, and what is the precise nature of his motion. When that is known the House will be able to decide what course ought to be pursued.Mr. Secretary Peel
1.d.1.d. begged to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting a practice that had lately sprung up in the port of London, and in some of the outports. Formerly, a duty of 61.d.1.d.Mr. Bernal
 was not then prepared, but would to-morrow satisfy the hon. Member.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1244 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for several Returns connected with the postponement from the last summer assizes at Cork, of the trials of Leary and others, charged with a conspiracy to murder. The hon. Member prefaced his Motion by saying those trials had been unwarrantably postponed by Chief Baron O'Grady. He fixed a day for the termination of the assizes, and beyond that he would not wait, though he was earnestly implored to wait, and though, by not waiting, he consigned the men to prison for several months. The hon. Member concluded by moving "That there be laid before the House a copy of the entry made by the clerk of the Crown, as to the cause of the postponement of the trials at the last summer assize at Cork, of the trials of Leary and others, accused of Conspiracy to Murder; also a copy of the Memorial of the Grand Jury of Cork to the Lord Lieutenant, for a special commission to try the prisoners, and the answer thereto;
1244Mr. Jephson
 supported the Motion, and said, he was sure that all the circumstances would be satisfactorily explained.Mr. King
1241 said, he could not see any necessary connection between the motion of the hon. Member and the financial statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that one should be postponed for the other. Although he did not expect much from the motion of the hon. Member, yet, as the country was certainly suffering under some distress, the House ought not to interpose unnecessary objections in the way of a motion that had relief in view. The country might think it was sported with were the motion to be again postponed. He was the more anxious that the motion should not be postponed, on account of the ex-
1241Mr. A. Baring
 said, he had no objection to the Motion, except to that part which related to the Judge's notes, to call for which in such a case was, in his opinion, unparliamentary.Lord Leveson Gower
 thought it would be convenient to the House if it could be understood what was to be the question for discussion on Friday. He did not give up all hope that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, might develope some plan of relief which would make the hon. Member's motion less necessary.Mr. Tennyson
 objected to the production of the Judge's notes, and also to the confidential correspondence of the Crown Solicitor on the subject of the trials.Sir C. Wetherell
, adverting to what passed on the subject of his motion on the State of the Country, which stood for Friday, said, that on consideration he was reluctantly induced to postpone it, as it might be inconvenient to many Members who would wish to vote upon it, and who also wished to vote on the East Retford question. He would, therefore, postpone it from Friday next, and fix it for the day after that named for the financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—namely, for Tuesday, the 16th instant.Mr. E. Davenport
1242 said, he was anxious to accommodate himself to the wishes of the House, but he heard such conflicting opinions, that he could not make out what those wishes were. He certainly could have no objection to state that his motion would be for a Committee to inquire into the State of the Country. He was too old a soldier not to take advantage of circumstances, and therefore he could not state more precisely what his motion would be, till the day of battle
1242Mr. E. Davenport
A general cry of "No, no."1243 said, it appeared to
A general cry of "No, no."1243Mr. E. Davenport
1239, in presenting a Petition from Manchester for a reduction of taxation, and complaining of distress, said it would be desirable that the House should come to some understanding on the subject of his Motion on the State of the Country, which stood for Friday next. He understood, as the motion was not likely to be very acceptable to Ministers, that they intended to avail themselves of their empire over the Orders of the Day on Friday, to prevent it from coming on at a reasonable hour. The hon. Member for Hertfordshire had, in anticipation of that harbinger of spring, the cuckoo, thought fit to lay his egg in his (Mr. Davenport's) nest, and refused to give way to him. The hon. Member for Bletchingley also had a motion for Friday, but was willing to allow precedence to him (Mr. Davenport). The Chancellor of the Exchequer, probably with a view to catch some stray votes in a division upon which he ought not to have a majority, had given notice of what he called a Financial Statement for the 15th of March; but the House should recollect that it was admitted Ministers
1239Mr. E. Davenport
 suggested to the hon. Member (Mr. Jephson) to withdraw those parts of his Motion, to which, after a few words, he consented, and the Motion thus reduced was agreed to.Mr. Doherty
, in seconding the Motion, said, that he knew nothing of the circumstances, but being nearly connected with the Judge who presided, he could state that as far as he (the learned Judge) was concerned, he would have no objection to give every information in his power.Colonel O'Grady
 said, that the matter then remained in the same uncertainty in which they had found it.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that he did not mean to affirm that the country was in a state of rebellion, but nobody, he thought, could deny that there was a revolutionary spirit in the country, which it would not be wise to inflame by refusing or delaying to inquire into the means of relieving the general distress. He would only remind the House, in proof of his assertion, of the Birmingham Union, and of the several Societies for promoting Radical Reform, which were already matured in different parts of the country. The hon. Member for Callington did not seem aware that a meeting had lately taken place in its neighbourhood, to complain of distress, and petition for relief; and being ignorant of that, the House would not be disposed to place much confidence in his representation of the general satisfaction which the hon. Member said existed in the country.Sir Richard Vivian
 was of opinion that the House ought on no consideration to postpone the motion for considering the state of the country. If it were again and again indefinitely postponed, the ferment in the country might go the length of a revolution, and be beyond the control of Parliament.Sir Richard Vivian
 fixed his Motion, that the House be called over, also for Tuesday the 16th instant.Sir R. Vyvyan
1259 had no objection to the production of the petition. As to the hon. and learned Member's questions, he would state, first, that the proclamation alluded to was certainly issued by the advice of the law-officers of the Crown. It was signed by the privy councillors, one of whom was the Attorney General. With respect to the second question, he would state that the Lord Lieutenant had no control over the Judge, and no official knowledge of the charge delivered by that learned person. All he could know of it was in that way which was open to any other individual. In the selection of circuits by the Judges the hon. and learned Member must be aware that the Lord
1259Lord F. L. Gower
1261 said, the hon. Gentleman had interpreted his smile rightly. He thought that, consistently with the principle of the measure on which Parliament had acted in the bill of last Session, Roman Catholics ought not to be allowed to remain under disqualifications on account of religious opinions. So far he admitted the principle of the hon. Member's measure. On the manner in which that principle might be carried into effect, he would now offer no opinion, but, without
1261Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that he also would abstain from any pledge on the subject. He fully admitted the principle stated by his right hon. friend, and was prepared to act on it. If the measure were to be introduced as a private bill, he could not give it his support; though, as a public measure, the principle which the hon. Member for Limerick had stated had his sanction.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that the question was not so much one of a public principle, as of the rights of a corporate body, He did not think the House could interfere without violating the charter of the town of Galway.Sir R. Inglis
 said, the right which the Protestant might claim of being admitted a freeman, was not one depending on the corporation; the Protestant could insist on it, as one conferred on him by act of Parliament. Now, in the spirit of the bill of last Session, Protestant and Catholic ought to be put on an equal footing in this respect. This might be done either by giving the right to the Catholic, or by depriving the Protestant of it; but the application of the general principle did not at all affect corporate rights.Mr. Peel
 spoke of the advantages that would result from the proposed railway, and added that the great majority of landed proprietors upon the line had assented to the measure.Mr. Marshall
 opposed the bill, as involving an attack upon the interest of the proprietors of the Aire and Calder navigation.Mr. F. Wilson
 presented Evidence taken before the Committee upon the Charter of the East-India Company, and moved that it be printed.Mr. Ward
 thought there could be no objection to so reasonable a proposal. Besides, it was of great importance that the evidence should go forth to the public, which it could not, unless it were given to the House in small quantities.Mr. Stewart
 knew that there had been some discussion on this point in the Committee, but thought it had been settled that the evidence should be presented every fortnight. At all events, this was a question for the Committee. He believed it was not the usual course of the House to interfere in a matter which had been left to the discretion of a Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as it could not be known to what length the examination of a witness might extend, it would be better to have the evidence reported at fixed periods.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he had not understood it to be the intention of the House that the Committee was to give the evidence in such very small parts. Neither had he expected that the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) would have called the attention of the House to this subject. He had understood it to have been the hon. Member's intention to confine himself to a remark upon the necessity of expediting the printing.Mr. Ward
 said, he would not enter into the question then, farther than to re-state his opinion, that on the matter in question, Catholics and Protestants should be placed on equal footing, according to the principle of last year's bill.Mr. Secretary Peel
 requested that the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would give him some information explanatory of the increased duty which had lately been charged at some of our out-ports on prints and maps which were intended to be illustrative of literary works. He had reminded the right hon. Gentleman of the circumstance yesterday, and now again begged to call his attention to the subject.Mr. Bernal
1 replied, that it was probable a difference of opinion might arise between the parties interested and the Custom-house officers as to what were legitimately chargeable and what were not so. The Revenue regulation was simply this;—all maps and prints which merely illustrated works of literature were certainly exempt from the duty referred to, as they passed with the book, being included in the 51The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1264d stated, that he had been informed the Custom-house officers observed neither the spirit nor letter of such a regulation; as they lately made it a practice to charge a separate duty on maps and prints, which, according to the fair interpretation of the rule in question, would be exempted, being a necessary component part of the works to which they were attached. The hon. Member mentioned a case of the maps belonging to a geographical work having been charged with the separate duty, and other cases, in which the prints were charged 61264dMr. Bernal
 said, he should be happy to be informed more precisely of the particular cases to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, requesting that he would be pleased to order that there be laid before the House a copy of the second Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the present Administration of Justice in the superior Courts of Law.Mr. Peel
 stated his intention to postpone the Motion on this subject, of which he had already given notice, as it would be desirable that he should have an opportunity of referring to the report of the commissioners, although it was necessarily but limited and partial in its details. Members, of course, would have access to it when printed, and they would in consequence, be better informed after having read upon the subject than they were now. It was therefore his wish to renew his notice for Thursday, the 29th of April, which would be the first open day after the Easter recess.Mr. Brougham
, on presenting a Petition from certain inhabitants of Yorkshire, praying for the Abolition of Slavery in the West Indies, inquired of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, whether it was the intention of Government to postpone for this Session the introduction of any measure for the purpose of effecting a Reform in the Colonial Judicature.Mr. Brougham
1265 desired to ask the right hon.
1265Sir F. Burdett
 inquired whether in former times such regimental returns had not been made?Sir F. Burdett
12761275pari passu observed, that he had heard, since he had had the honour of a seat in Parliament, the right hon. baronet make, every year, the very same complaint of the Church of Ireland with which he had just favoured the House. But the right hon. Baronet should recollect, that the Reformation in Ireland was not universal; that therefore it was not to be expected that the whole state and Government of the Church should there stand upon as satisfactory a footing as in England. Upon former occasions the right hon. Baronet had explained to the House the grounds of his belief that the principles of the Reformation were not advancing, 12761275pari passuSir Robert H. Inglis
127912781277 said, he was not able to assent to the proposition either of the right hon. Baronet, or of the hon. Member for Oxford. When the right hon. Baronet had quoted a passage from lord Bacon, in which he adverted to the operations of time, and stated that those operations which had effect on all things, were totally nugatory and inefficient with respect to ecclesiastical establishments—if the right hon. Baronet extended that doctrine to the Church of Ireland he must
127912781277Lord F. L. Gower
 expressed his surprise at the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Oxford; and he was still more surprised that the amendment was supported by the hon. Member for Dublin, who thought inquiry would remove false impressions concerning the Irish Church, and be a full refutation to the charges brought against it. He was sure that, the result of the inquiry proposed by the noble Lord would be, to show, what he had always asserted, that during the last twenty years the clergy of Ireland had zealously performed their duties, and that no church had a more zealous and deserving clergy. He hoped that the hon. Member for Oxford would withdraw his motion, and not compel the House to vote on it. As to what the right hon. Baronet had said of the present bishop of Ferns not having promoted a respectable curate when he was bishop of Limerick, he could say nothing; but since the bishop had filled his present see, he had selected for promotion men of abilities and long standing in the Church, with whom he had no connection whatever, except by their services as curates. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer also asserted that the primate of Ireland, had been more cautious and careful than some of his predecessors, in granting faculties, in doing which he had been actuated by a sincere desire to perform his duty; and he concluded by requesting the hon. Member for Oxford to withdraw his amendment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
12851284 said, he presumed that Gentlemen who had just entered the House, and had not been present at the debate, must, from the speech of the hon. Member for Dover (Mr. Trant) suppose that some formidable proposition was under consideration for the destruction of the Church of Ireland. The course of proceeding that the right hon. Baronet proposed was, that
12851284Mr. Secretary Peel
 rose to explain.—He must confirm the just and striking observation of the learned and hon. Gentleman, that if a certain argument was not his (Mr. Peel's) argument, why then it was not. He (Mr. Peel) had never represented the commission in England as precisely the same as that now proposed for Ireland, but he did doubt if the commission upon the whole Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction of England, and upon the control of the bishops over the Clergy, were not as important and as extensive as the commission now proposed.Mr. Peel
1291sacro-sanct129012891288 rose amidst cries of Question, and turning round and shaking his finger at the criers, he said, "You will have Question in proper time." He could not let the observations of the learned Gentleman pass without some explanation; for, without any explanation, he might be supposed to give his vote upon grounds which he repelled as much as any man.
1291sacro-sanct129012891288Mr. Brougham
, to save the time of the House, would withdraw his amendment.Sir R. Inglis
 expressed his readiness to oblige his noble friend, but could not consent to postpone his motion.Mr. Wilmot Horton
1298"As we may not impossibly renew the Charter next year, we may take that opportunity of rectifying the expressions of the Act of Parliament, should they require it. Many persons think it would be inexpedient to open a discussion on Indian matters this year, if it could be avoided. But as I tell you, no decision is yet come to. You will see that there is no intention of deserting you. You have acted with much firmness and prudence. I entirely agree in the view you have expressed of the dangerous consequences which would result from the extension beyond the limits of the Presidency of the powers claimed by the Supreme Court. Orders have been given for expediting the patent of the chief judge. It is with deep regret that I have heard that the Company and the country are so soon to lose your services in India. I could not ask you to stay one hour to the danger of your valuable life; but I am confident you will stay till you have re-established the authority of Government in the opinion of the natives. I trust, indeed, that the unbending firmness you have displayed will have prevented much of the evil which might have been expected to flow from the conduct of the Judges. I feel satisfied that you will act with the same firmness under all circum-
1298renewreview129712961295Bombay Castle, 3rd OctoberBombay Castle, 3rd OctoberJOHN ROMER.J. J. SPARROW.T. BRADFORD. Lieut. Gen.Signed, JOHN MALCOLM.Your most obedient servants,Honourable Sirs,"We have the honour to be,4. "A very short period will elapse before an answer is received to the full and urgent reference we have made upon this subject; and we must again express our hope, that even the obligations under which we are sensible you act, are not so imperative as to impel you to proceedings which the Government has thus explicitly stated its resolution to oppose.3. "We are quite sensible of the deep responsibility we incur by these measures; but' must look for our justification in the necessity of our situation. The grounds on which we act have exclusive reference to considerations of civil government and of state policy; but as our resolution cannot be altered until we receive the commands of those high authorities to which we are subject, we inform you of them, and we do most anxiously hope, that the considerations we have before stated may lead you to limit yourselves to those protests and appeals against our conduct in the cases specified, that you may deem it your duly to make; as any other conduct must, for reasons already stated, prove deeply injurious to the public interests, and can, under the resolution taken and avowed by Government, produce no result favourable either to the immediate or future establishment of the extended jurisdiction you have claimed.2. "In consequence of recent proceedings in the Supreme Court, in the cases of Moro Ragonath and Bappo Gunness we have felt compelled, for reasons which we have fully stated to our superiors, to direct that no further legal proceedings be admitted in the case of Moro Ragonath, and that no returns be made to any writs of Habeas Corpus of a similar nature to those recently issued and directed to any officers of the provincial courts, or to any of our native subjects not residing on the island of Bombay.1294"This conclusion refers to a variety of circumstances, which we are equally forbid from explaining, as you are from attending to such explanation; but we deem it necessary to state our conviction of the truth of what we have asserted, expecting that it may have some weight with the preservation of that strength in the Government, which in all our territories—but particularly those we have so recently acquired—is the chief, if not the only power we possess for maintaining that general peace, on the continuance of which the means of good rule, and of administering law under any form, must always depend."Honourable Sirs;—We are quite aware that we transgress upon ordinary form in addressing this letter to you; but the circumstances under which we are placed will, we trust, justify this departure from usage, and our knowledge of your private and public character leads us to hope that what we state will be received in that spirit in which it is written; and that, notwithstanding your strict obligations to fulfil every part of your high and sacred duty as British Judges, you will, on this extraordinary occasion, deem yourselves at liberty to consider as much the objects, as the rules of that Court over which you preside; and viewing the intention of the legislature in its institution as directed to the aid and support of the government intrusted with the administration of this Presidency, you will, for a short period, be induced, by our representations, to abstain from any acts (however legal you may deem them) which, under the measures we have felt ourselves compelled to take, and which we deem essential to the interests committed to our charge, must have the effect of producing open collision between our authority and yours; and by doing so, not only diminish that respect in the native population of this country, which it is so essential to both to maintain, but seriously to weaken, by a supposed division in our internal rule, those impressions on the minds of our native subjects, the existence of which is indispensable to the peace, prosperity, and permanence of the Indian empire."To the honourable Sir C. H. Chambers, Knight, Acting Chief Justice, and the honourable Sir J. P. Grant, Knight, Puisne Justice of the honourable the Supreme Court of Judicature.1293 said, he rose to move for certain papers referring to the interference of the local government with the administration of justice in the Supreme Court of Bombay. To recommend this Motion to the House, he did not deem it necessary to enter into the origin of this Court, but perhaps he might be permitted shortly to advert to the circumstances under which it was established. In the year 1774 or 1775, the extortions and oppressions of some servants of the East-India Company were found to press so very heavily, that Government was implored to come to the assistance of the people; and in consequence of some petitioners setting forth their grievances, and stating the necessity of their having some tribunal to protect them, were this and other courts of a similar nature established. He had to observe, that in 1782, Sir Elijah Impey was impeached for a dereliction of duty, and called to answer for having accepted office in one of the Company's courts, he being at that time Chief Justice in a supreme "court of judicature; and from this he argued that the Government at home had recognized the independence of these courts in India, and acknowledged their right to exercise a control over the local authorities, Lately, notwithstanding this establishment
1298"As we may not impossibly renew the Charter next year, we may take that opportunity of rectifying the expressions of the Act of Parliament, should they require it. Many persons think it would be inexpedient to open a discussion on Indian matters this year, if it could be avoided. But as I tell you, no decision is yet come to. You will see that there is no intention of deserting you. You have acted with much firmness and prudence. I entirely agree in the view you have expressed of the dangerous consequences which would result from the extension beyond the limits of the Presidency of the powers claimed by the Supreme Court. Orders have been given for expediting the patent of the chief judge. It is with deep regret that I have heard that the Company and the country are so soon to lose your services in India. I could not ask you to stay one hour to the danger of your valuable life; but I am confident you will stay till you have re-established the authority of Government in the opinion of the natives. I trust, indeed, that the unbending firmness you have displayed will have prevented much of the evil which might have been expected to flow from the conduct of the Judges. I feel satisfied that you will act with the same firmness under all circum-
1298renewreview129712961295Bombay Castle, 3rd OctoberBombay Castle, 3rd OctoberJOHN ROMER.J. J. SPARROW.T. BRADFORD. Lieut. Gen.Signed, JOHN MALCOLM.Your most obedient servants,Honourable Sirs,"We have the honour to be,4. "A very short period will elapse before an answer is received to the full and urgent reference we have made upon this subject; and we must again express our hope, that even the obligations under which we are sensible you act, are not so imperative as to impel you to proceedings which the Government has thus explicitly stated its resolution to oppose.3. "We are quite sensible of the deep responsibility we incur by these measures; but' must look for our justification in the necessity of our situation. The grounds on which we act have exclusive reference to considerations of civil government and of state policy; but as our resolution cannot be altered until we receive the commands of those high authorities to which we are subject, we inform you of them, and we do most anxiously hope, that the considerations we have before stated may lead you to limit yourselves to those protests and appeals against our conduct in the cases specified, that you may deem it your duly to make; as any other conduct must, for reasons already stated, prove deeply injurious to the public interests, and can, under the resolution taken and avowed by Government, produce no result favourable either to the immediate or future establishment of the extended jurisdiction you have claimed.2. "In consequence of recent proceedings in the Supreme Court, in the cases of Moro Ragonath and Bappo Gunness we have felt compelled, for reasons which we have fully stated to our superiors, to direct that no further legal proceedings be admitted in the case of Moro Ragonath, and that no returns be made to any writs of Habeas Corpus of a similar nature to those recently issued and directed to any officers of the provincial courts, or to any of our native subjects not residing on the island of Bombay.1294"This conclusion refers to a variety of circumstances, which we are equally forbid from explaining, as you are from attending to such explanation; but we deem it necessary to state our conviction of the truth of what we have asserted, expecting that it may have some weight with the preservation of that strength in the Government, which in all our territories—but particularly those we have so recently acquired—is the chief, if not the only power we possess for maintaining that general peace, on the continuance of which the means of good rule, and of administering law under any form, must always depend."Honourable Sirs;—We are quite aware that we transgress upon ordinary form in addressing this letter to you; but the circumstances under which we are placed will, we trust, justify this departure from usage, and our knowledge of your private and public character leads us to hope that what we state will be received in that spirit in which it is written; and that, notwithstanding your strict obligations to fulfil every part of your high and sacred duty as British Judges, you will, on this extraordinary occasion, deem yourselves at liberty to consider as much the objects, as the rules of that Court over which you preside; and viewing the intention of the legislature in its institution as directed to the aid and support of the government intrusted with the administration of this Presidency, you will, for a short period, be induced, by our representations, to abstain from any acts (however legal you may deem them) which, under the measures we have felt ourselves compelled to take, and which we deem essential to the interests committed to our charge, must have the effect of producing open collision between our authority and yours; and by doing so, not only diminish that respect in the native population of this country, which it is so essential to both to maintain, but seriously to weaken, by a supposed division in our internal rule, those impressions on the minds of our native subjects, the existence of which is indispensable to the peace, prosperity, and permanence of the Indian empire."To the honourable Sir C. H. Chambers, Knight, Acting Chief Justice, and the honourable Sir J. P. Grant, Knight, Puisne Justice of the honourable the Supreme Court of Judicature.1293Mr. Stewart
1301habeas corpus1300habeas corpus1299 replied, but in so low a voice, that his speech was very imperfectly heard. He was understood to say, that he was afraid that the minds of the members were prepossessed, supposing that a gross outrage had been committed on those persons on the sacredness of whose character and functions all classes had to depend for the security of their lives and property. He hoped the House would not think he was going to argue against the independence of courts of justice. He knew that it was essential to the tranquillity and security of a country that they should, enjoy perfect freedom But
1301habeas corpus1300habeas corpus1299Lord Ashley
1305 said, that being extremely desirous that no time should be lost in the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the laws relating to the Beer Trade, he meant, even at that late hour [past one], to move, with the permission of the House, for its appointment. He would, however, occupy the House only for a few minutes, while he stated the general principles on which he should found his propositions. The subject of granting licenses to public houses had been often brought under consideration, and sufficient had been already done towards giving freedom to the retail trade in Beer to justify the institution of an inquiry into the propriety of giving it still greater freedom. It had been shown by previous inquiries, that the present system of licensing had given rise more or less to a degree of monopoly in the Beer Trade which had produced two evils:—1. a deterioration in the quality of Beer—2. an enhancement of its price: both of which were, in effect, a severe tax on the poorer classes. Both these he hoped to remedy, but he begged to be understood as not at all yielding to the imputations thrown upon a wealthy and respectable class of individuals engaged in the manufacture and sale of Beer; the fault, if fault there were, was the fault of the law. His view was, that by opening the trade the means of consuming Beer would be extended, and that no injury would be inflicted upon the brewer, while an important benefit would be conferred on the public; and he was convinced that the apprehensions felt by many persons interested in the present system, when any alteration was spoken of, would turn out to be unfounded. He was quite sensible of the advantage of extending the sale and consumption of Beer; but at the same time, he did not mean to put out of sight
1305The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1306 highly approved of the Motion, and congratulated the country upon the benefit that was likely to result from the investigation. The lower orders looked upon Beer as the second necessary of life, and the first advantage from a change in the present system would be, that they could obtain it cheaper and better; secondly, that their morals would be improved; and thirdly, that the distresses of the agriculturists would thus be partially relieved, because an increased consumption of Beer would necessarily create an increased demand for agricultural produce, which was greatly restricted by the existing system. For his own part, it appeared to him that general competition would best serve the interests of the respectable individuals who were engaged in
1306Mr. Slaney
 contended, that the provincial Courts enjoyed an independent jurisdiction, and that the attempt of Sir John Grant to establish the authority of the Supreme Court in the manner he had done, and his discharge of a convicted person, was contrary to the letter of the law, and gave the natives reason to believe that there was some mysterious process by which a guilty man could be set at liberty and left to continue with impunity in his course of crime. This country had recognised the independence of the provincial Courts, and having done so, it was extremely improper in a Judge of the Supreme Court to set aside their authority, and quite wrong in any one to support such an act. He believed that no one had ever denied that Sir J. Malcolm had done his duty in openly resisting an authority which he believed to be illegal, and which, when attempted to be enforced, had created much disturbance and confusion.Colonel Graham
 then moved the Address in the terms already described.Lord Leveson Gower
1307 regretted that this important subject had been brought forward at so late an hour that it was impossible to enter into the real merits of the question. He had no doubt that the members of the committee would be fairly chosen, but he could not agree that any such investigation was necessary, or that it would be productive of any benefit. He believed that the present Chancellor of the Exchequer would find himself, like his predecessors in office, entirely mistaken as to the consequence of a change; and, did time allow, he was prepared to show that the anticipations of Lord Goderich, when, in 1825, he brought forward the Intermediate Beer bill, had been wholly disappointed. The sale and manufacture of Beer was not so restricted as the right hon. Gentleman imagined. It was by no means a monopoly; a great portion of the trade was free. Property to a large amount would be seriously affected by the change, not of the large brewers, for they were out of the question, but of a very respectable class of the community, the owners and occupiers of houses independent of any brewer. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would note and recollect his words, when he said that the proposed alteration of the law, allowing the sale of Beer in shops, would only operate as a transfer of the trade from one class to another, without at all increasing the consumption of the article. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to induce the community to drink more Beer, the only effectual means of doing so was to
1307Mr. C. Barclay
cheer1287loud laughterlaughtercries of "No, No."1286Cries of "No, no!"quoadquoad said, that the right hon. Secretary had argued that there was no harm in granting this inquiry cheer1287loud laughterlaughtercries of "No, No."1286Cries of "No, no!"quoadquoadSir Charles Wetherell
 observed, that it did not follow as a necessary consequence of the late Relief bill, that they should infringe upon local privileges, and interfere with long-established customs and regulations of a partial operation.Sir C. Wetherell
laughter.—"I, then, am in the wrong, and the cheer comes from an Emeritus lawyer (Mr. M. A. Taylor), who sits behind him—however, some person sarcastically cheered my statement; or if no person sarcastically cheered, why then I am in possession of my statement." [laughterSir C. Wetherell
 concurred with the right hon. Gentleman that that bill made Catholics and Protestants equal in all parts of the kingdom except Galway; and that, to follow up that principle, they should be put on equal footing there also.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to know from the noble Lord (F. L. Gower) opposite, whether he had any objection to the production of a Petition or Memorial forwarded to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, from a person named Francis M'Brian, a prisoner in Enniskillen gaol, complaining of the conduct of the Sub-sheriff of Fermanagh. He also wished to know from the noble Lord whether the proclamation issued last year by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, for putting down party processions, was issued by the advice of the law officers of the Crown in that country. His reason for asking for this information was, that one of the Irish Judges, in going a circuit soon after, was reported to have delivered a charge very contrary to the law as laid down in that proclamation, and that same learned Judge had recently selected for his circuit that one where there were most trials for infractions of the law, as laid down in the proclamation, to be tried, and where, in fact, the point at issue would be, whether the explanation of the law given in the proclamation, or by the Judge, was the correct one. He wished also to know, whether the Lord Lieutenant was aware of the opinions delivered by the learned Judge on the occasion alluded to, and whether he also knew of his having selected that particular circuit. The hon. and learned Gentleman then moved that the petition of M'Brian to the Lord Lieutenant be laid before the House.Mr. O'Connell
l1 said, he had to present to the House three Petitions from inhabitants of five parishes, composing the union of Foxford, in the county of Mayo. One of the petitions was from the Protestant inhabitants of those parishes, and he considered it a great honour to have it intrusted to his care. The hon. and learned Gentleman then detailed the substance of the petitions, which was to this effect;—that the rev. John O'Roorke was appointed vicar of the parishes in 1817, since which time he had never resided or possessed any place of residence, or performed any duty, in the union, except on a few Christmas and Easter festivals, but had resided at a town fifty miles distant, in another county and diocese, where he carried on business as a tithe-farmer and grazier; that he never contributed any thing beyond 40s. a-year to the parish; had no school there; and that the consequence was, that the children were dependent for instruction on a school established by Roman Catholics, and that many of them had lapsed from the Church of England, and embraced what they called, the errors of the Church of Rome; that the petitioners had been grievously harassed by the conduct of the said rev. John O'Roorke, whose demands for tithes had been every year increasing, while the manner of collecting those demands became every day more oppressive; that the vicar refused to take a composition of 500l1Mr. O'Connell
 answered, "No, no."Mr. O'Connell
l supported the bill. The intended railway would be of the greatest public benefit. He was not surprised at the opposition of the hon. Member for York, who received dividends to the amount of 10,000lMr. Sykes
 supported the prayer of the petition, and said, that from an assenting smile of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel) at some of the remarks of his hon. friend, he had reason to hope that the bill for which the hon. Member intended to move would receive the support of Government.Mr. Protheroe
 was understood to say that when the hon. Member made a motion for inquiry, he would second it.Mr. G. Moore
1281ll1280 said, he should support the hon. Member for Oxford's Amendment in preference to the Amendment of the noble Lord. He was sure that the Church of Ireland could have no objection to afford the fullest information, which
1281ll1280Mr. G. Moore
 added, that no such returns had ever been made. At the same time he should have no objection to state to the hon. Baronet the number of punishments in each regiment, although he could not consent that it should be made the subject of a formal return. Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he certainly should object to a return of such a description as to specify the relative punishments of regiments, well knowing that it would be considered in the army as a proceeding of a very invidious character. Some regiments might appear to be stigmatised and unfavourably reported,—not on account of peculiar misconduct, but merely because they were placed under circumstances of greater temptation than their brother soldiers had been. He would readily supply the hon. Baronet with information personally, if he required any, but he could not consent to a statement of comparative punishments being laid before the House.Sir H. Hardinge
 contended, that the innovation proposed would in effect abrogate the rights of the corporation altogether.Mr. Daly
1263 bore testimony to the respectability of the meeting which was convened for the purpose of getting-up this petition. There was no desire whatever on the part of the petitioners to put down the Protestants, or attack their legitimate interests. They merely sought to remove an invidious regulation, which only produced mutual jealousies, and kept alive the recollections of caste, and prevented the animosities of party from subsiding, as in due course they must necessarily otherwise have done. There was no peace at elections, in consequence of this unpopular enactment, as the native respectable inhabitants were naturally disgusted at the number of non-residents and strangers who were, on such occasions, brought up to vote. So odious was this system to the people in general, that he had actually seen the
1263Mr. Lambert
 said, he should be always ready to vote for any measure which would contribute to promote union in society.Mr. O'Hara
 vouched for Galway being a very Catholic place, where the great mass of the population had always been of that persuasion. By the law of the corporation, any Protestant tradesman who resided amongst them for the space of seven years, might claim his freedom; and this was held forth by way of inducement to others of the same church to come and settle with their families in the town. Those days, however, had now gone by, and a more liberal policy had been introduced, in accordance with which he maintained that the members of both churches should be placed on a perfect equality. There was in fact no longer any reason for continuing the law. The House, by making both parties equal, would only withdraw from the present Protestant generation an unfair privilege, which ought never to have been granted. The principle on which it was originally established was now no longer recognized as part or parcel of the Constitution, and consistency demanded that the legislature should in this instance, as in every other, raise their Catholic fellow subjects to a level with themselves.Mr. North
1257 said, this was evidence which had occupied the Committee a fortnight, and that it formed a great mass. He rose for the purpose of suggesting that, as soon as each witness had been examined and cross-examined, his evidence should be printed. This mode would enable Gentle-
1257Mr. Hume
 did not wish that the House should interfere. His wish was, that when the evidence of one witness was complete it should be presented to the House.Mr. Hume
1282 was glad to hear these sentiments from the hon. Member; and should found on them a claim to his support, when he should make a motion for a Committee to Inquire into the State of the Irish Church. He thought with the hon. Member, that by inquiry many erroneous impressions would be done away, and the House and the public would be fully informed of the state of that Church. He agreed, therefore, with the hon. Member; and, before the Session was closed, should ask him for his vote. At the same time, the hon. Member's statements were quite inconsistent with his vote. The proposition of the right hon. Baronet was but a milk-and-water one. It was high time that the whole establishment of the Irish Church should be inquired into, revised, and reduced, so as to accord with the state of the country. He should vote for the Motion of his right hon. friend; but he did not do so from supposing that this Motion was adequate to the circumstances of the country. Inquiry must, in his opinion, go much further; and he hoped to see the establishment reduced to two or four bishops. He should like that sixteen or eighteen bishopricks were swept away at once; and he heartily believed that, in this respect, the population of England and Ireland would go along with him. Instead of repairing the cathedrals, if they could not be converted into parish churches, he would pull them down. Why should the people be compelled to keep structures of brick and mortar, of which they made no use? Instead of appropriating the revenues of benefices, as they became vacant, to clerical purposes, he would cause them to be paid into the
1282Mr. Hume
1304 observed, that this question was one of considerable importance to the inhabitants of our Indian possessions; and after the misrepresentations of facts—misrepresentations which documents in his possession would fully prove—he did not think that it would be just towards India to suffer the discussion to be so hastily disposed of as it must be at that hour of
1304Mr. Hume
 had not been present during the whole of the discussion, and he should address himself only to the observations of the right hon. Secretary opposite. He must say, that the proposition came with a peculiarly bad grace from those who refused all commissions of inquiry into civil establishments. It would as well become the House to attend to civil pluralities, which were evils as crying as the ecclesiastical; and in many cases civil pluralities were held which were totally incompatible with each other.Mr. Sadler
 presented a Petition from certain proprietors of lands in the neighbourhood of the line of the projected Railway between Leeds and Selby, against the bill now in progress; and on Mr. Marshall moving the second reading of the bill,Mr. Sadler
 opposed the Motion, on the ground of the injury and inconvenience which the railway would occasion to the petitioners. The utility of railways in cases where water communications existed was as yet doubtful; but let it be established that they were of importance, and the petitioners were ready to sacrifice their private convenience to the public good, and abandon all opposition to the bill. The experiment as to the advantage of railways was in progress; when it should have been completed, it would be time enough to pass such a bill as the present.Mr. Sadler
 said, he had certainly felt very indignant at his learned friend's expression of the spoliation of the Church; and he (Mr. Taylor) did express himself more loudly than he ought to have done. He would, however, say that the imputation of a wish to despoil the Church against those who only wanted to reform it, was unfounded and unjustifiable. He looked upon the Church Establishment of England and Ireland with veneration; and he considered that the only effect of the proposed commission would be to place the Churches of England and Ireland on the most solid foundation.Mr. M. A. Taylor
13031302 said, that although the intimate friend of one of the Judges, and bound by a much closer tie to another, now no more, he could not allow himself to deny that they were not wrong in the course they adopted on this occasion. But if the Judges had acted imprudently and indiscreetly, the Government had on its part made as many mistakes as the Judges. When the Governor found it necessary to assert his authority, he should not have contented himself by sending a private letter on a subject of such great public importance. The Judges were applied to publicly to grant a writ of pressing haste, and which, from its very nature, brooked no delay; and he ought therefore to have taken some public step at all hazards and consequences, even if it had been necessary to issue a proclamation. It was plain that if not legally, he was morally justifiable in adopting that course; and the Government at home would not have hesitated to pass an Act of Indemnity to free him from the consequences, in the same manner as they had done to the Bengal Government in 1781, when it resisted the orders of the Supreme Court by force, on the ground that those orders, though legal, were unjustifiable and inexpedient. The bill which was then passed adopted the same opinion, and its preamble expressly declared, that the conduct of the Supreme Court had not been strictly justifiable, although legal. Passing to the Letter of a noble Lord, which had been so often mentioned, he must say that, although it was said to have been written in haste and without due consideration, all the substantial parts of it had been fully acted on. In the various debates on the subject of
13031302Mr. Robert Grant
 seconded the Motion.Mr. Spring Rice
1283 thought, that of the motions before the House, the preference was due to the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord. He was deeply interested in the Irish Church Establishment, and in his attachment to it he did not yield to the hon. Member for Oxford (Sir R. Inglis); but if that hon. Member thought that the interest of the Church was to be supported by resisting every change, every attempt at improvement, come from whatever quarter it might, he was mistaken. The members of the Irish Church did not participate in the hon. Member's views; and though they had been disposed to resist every change, they had now become sensible that changes were not necessarily injuries. They had at first opposed the Tithe-composition bill, but they had afterwards assented to it, and they found that much good had resulted from that Act to them. The Vestry Act was another act of the same kind. Whatever charges had been made against that Act, and a great many had been made, it had never been said that it was inimical in its results to the interests of the Clergy. If the hon. Member for Oxford looked at the acts of the legislature, he would know that the right of the legislature to interfere with Church property for Church purposes was recognized by many acts of Parliament, and acted on. The legislature might therefore again interfere with it to raise the stipends of curates, as it had before. The hon. Member also seemed to have confounded parishes with benefices; but in Ireland they were not the same. If the previous question should be carried, he hoped that then they should all concur in the proposition of the noble Lord. He looked to the result of the inquiry to make the Church of Ireland more efficacious than at present. Already a great improvement, he was willing to
1283Mr. Spring Rice
 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Galway, the only town in the United Kingdom where, since the act of last Session, any civil disabilities on account of religious opinions existed. The nature of the petition he would state in a very few words. By an Act passed in the reign of George 1st, any Protestant merchant resident for a certain time in Galway might claim his freedom of the town as a matter of right. The object of that Act was, in the spirit of that day, to support what was called the Protestant interest. The principle of the Catholic Relief bill, passed last Session, rendered it expedient that any statute creating civil disabilities on account of religious differences of opinion between Christians, should be expunged from the Statute-book; and in the spirit of that Act he thought the Catholic merchants and traders of Galway should be placed on an equal footing with their Protestant fellow-townsmen. Galway was an improving town, the Roman Catholic inhabitants of which had, as the petitioners very properly stated in their petition, ever been distinguished by their loyalty; and now that religious disqualifications were abolished all over the kingdom except that town, he thought they should be got rid of there also. He would not go further on the subject at that moment, but would give notice, that on Wednesday next he would move for leave to bring in a bill to remove the disqualification, by placing Catholics and Protestants on an equal footing.Mr. Spring Rice
 had also understood that the reports of the Committee were to be at the end of six days of actual sitting, which would include a fortnight of time, as the Committee sat only on three days of the week. To report at shorter periods might be sending the evidence in a very unsatisfactory manner before the House. Sometimes it might be desirable to report at the end of four days, and sometimes not before the end of eight; but he thought it would be better to leave the matter, as it had been already left, to the discretion of the Committee.Mr. Spring Rice
1262 asserted that no unjust interference with corporate regulations was contemplated or required. The policy which originated the grievance alluded to was henceforward to be considered obso-
1262Mr. Spring Rice
 hoped, that an equalization of the rights of the two classes would not be effected by depriving the Protestant of any right he already possessed; but rather, by conferring a similar one on the Catholic. If the corporation had no power to refuse the Protestant, it was not a corporate right, but one created by Parliament, with respect to which both parties should now be equal.Mr. C. Wynn
 maintained that the Church of Ireland was not to blame—it had no abuses, it was in the most progressive and satisfactory state of amendment; if the Church of England was to be pulled down, let it be pulled down by honest hands. The commission was to reform what needed not reformation, and the records of that House furnished the refutation of the charges brought forward against the Church.Mr. Trant
 stated, in reply, that the expenses attendant on such a proceeding would be very great; but he could not at present ascertain the exact amount. Certain difficulties existed, nor could they be immediately removed; but he would endeavour to facilitate the introduction of Reform, and some measure for that purpose would be mooted even before the expiration of this Session, if circumstances permitted the Government so far to consult its inclinations.Sir G. Murray
"That we particularly recommend to the consideration of his Majesty, the propriety of suspending the appointment by the Crown to any dignity or benefice within the gift thereof, as vacancies may hereafter occur, until inquiry shall have been made into the state and condition of the cathedral or other church connected with such dignity or benefice, and, where it is found necessary to rebuild or repair the same, of appropriating to such rebuilding or repair the revenues arising from such dignity or benefice, after deducting there from the necessary provision for the celebration of divine worship, and the temporary discharge of the duties connected with such dignity or benefice during such suspension of permanent appointment, as was some years since effected in the case of Litchfield cathedral.""That his Majesty may be pleased to direct that there be laid before this House such information, respecting the legal powers under which the granting or with holding faculties for possessing pluralities of benefices are now exercised, as may enable the House to judge of the expediency of proposing any modification of such powers, or of removing any obstruction which may now legally exist to controlling the same, and restricting them so as to be most beneficial to the real interests of the Church Establishment, and of the people committed to their care.1274"That his Majesty may be pleased to direct that strict inquiry be made by the Archbishops and Bishops of Ireland from the beneficed clergy of Ireland, assembled at their visitations and otherwise annually, as to their exact payment of their several curates of the full sum of money stipulated by the Act of Parliament to be paid to them for performance
1274"The appointment of a Commission, selected from the Privy Council of Ireland, instructed with as little delay as may be practicable, to proceed in a systematic examination of the several diocesses of Ireland, as to the state of the unions of parishes contained therein, the authority under which such unions have been effected, the value of the several parishes so united, their contiguity or remoteness from each other, and from the several churches contained therein, and the fitness or impropriety of their continuing so united whenever the benefices in which they are comprised shall become vacant by death or otherwise; and to report, from time to time, their proceedings in such examination to his Majesty.1273sldsldsldsl1sll1272sl1llll1271llllll1270ds12691268s1267verbatim1266 brought forward his Motion on the state of the Established Church of Ireland, and commenced by claiming the indulgence of the House, necessary to him at all times, but more particularly at his advanced period of life. He was quite sensible that he was about to introduce a subject demanding much greater abilities than any he had ever possessed, but he hoped that his deficiencies would be amply supplied by the exertions of other Members. It was his most anxious desire that the revenues of the Church of Ireland should be apportioned to the duty discharged; that the emoluments should depend, in some degree, upon meritorious service; whereas he had good reason to know, that at present the payment was most disproportionate to the employment. Those who laboured in the vineyard most industriously ought to be paid most liberally; but the abuses that had crept into the Established Church of Ireland from an early period, had defeated any such just and reasonable arrangement, Pluralities and, unions
"That we particularly recommend to the consideration of his Majesty, the propriety of suspending the appointment by the Crown to any dignity or benefice within the gift thereof, as vacancies may hereafter occur, until inquiry shall have been made into the state and condition of the cathedral or other church connected with such dignity or benefice, and, where it is found necessary to rebuild or repair the same, of appropriating to such rebuilding or repair the revenues arising from such dignity or benefice, after deducting there from the necessary provision for the celebration of divine worship, and the temporary discharge of the duties connected with such dignity or benefice during such suspension of permanent appointment, as was some years since effected in the case of Litchfield cathedral.""That his Majesty may be pleased to direct that there be laid before this House such information, respecting the legal powers under which the granting or with holding faculties for possessing pluralities of benefices are now exercised, as may enable the House to judge of the expediency of proposing any modification of such powers, or of removing any obstruction which may now legally exist to controlling the same, and restricting them so as to be most beneficial to the real interests of the Church Establishment, and of the people committed to their care.1274"That his Majesty may be pleased to direct that strict inquiry be made by the Archbishops and Bishops of Ireland from the beneficed clergy of Ireland, assembled at their visitations and otherwise annually, as to their exact payment of their several curates of the full sum of money stipulated by the Act of Parliament to be paid to them for performance
1274"The appointment of a Commission, selected from the Privy Council of Ireland, instructed with as little delay as may be practicable, to proceed in a systematic examination of the several diocesses of Ireland, as to the state of the unions of parishes contained therein, the authority under which such unions have been effected, the value of the several parishes so united, their contiguity or remoteness from each other, and from the several churches contained therein, and the fitness or impropriety of their continuing so united whenever the benefices in which they are comprised shall become vacant by death or otherwise; and to report, from time to time, their proceedings in such examination to his Majesty.1273sldsldsldsl1sll1272sl1llll1271llllll1270ds12691268s1267verbatim1266Sir John Newport
 said, after what had been stated on the other side of the House, he would withdraw his Motion.Sir J. Newport
, though not a member of the Committee, said, he thought that if the Committee itself did not object, it would be very convenient to the House that the evidence should be reported in small parcels, so that it might be more speedily in the hands of Members.Lord Althorp
 said, that as the debate on the motion of the hon. Member for Waterford had lasted so long, and as another important question was about to be agitated, he would postpone his intended motion, although he was desirous, for reasons which must be obvious to all, to bring it on with as little delay as possible. He hoped he should be able to make his motion on Tuesday next. His only reason for doubting it arose from the circumstance that a motion of great importance, by an hon. and learned friend of his near him, stood for that day; and would probably give rise to a long discussion. He would, however, put it to his hon. friend, if another day might not equally suit his purpose?Lord Palmerston
1309 complained that the official part of cer-
1309Mr. Alderman Waithman
 could assign no other reason than that which the worthy Alderman had already received from the person whose duty it was to make out these returns,—namely, that that person was bound by act of Parliament to make out a very long series of Returns by a certain day of the present month, and that this business occupied the whole of his time and diligence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his approbation of the conduct of the Member for Suffolk (Sir T. Gooch) who had the manliness to express his dissent from his constituents, the petitioners, in desiring an alteration of the currency.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 presented a Petition from Ship-owners of the town of Whitby, in Yorkshire, complaining of distress, and praying for relief. The hon. Member supported the prayer of the petition, and bore testimony to the existence of the distress complained of.Mr. Duncombe
Cries of "Question."13121311Laughter begged also to support the prayer of the petition, and wished that he was sufficiently possessed of the gift of the gab to paint the distress in its true colours. [Cries of "Question."13121311LaughterColonel Wilson
OrderCries of "Question."1313. —He would bow to the suggestion of the Chair, but he had only the interest of his country at heart in what he stated, and he did not wish to be interrupted in the performance of his duty. He did not mean to offend any party, and if he said any thing wrong, he was not conscious of it. But, to return to the shipping, he would say that it required their serious consideration; and he was glad he should have another opportunity of addressing the House on the subject. But there was a remedy which might be applied. He would tell the House what it was—confine the bonding system to our own shipping—let them have the benefit of the carriage of all timber brought to our dock-yards—let foreign shipping come in if they liked and land their cargoes, but let them pay the duty, and have, a drawback on them if they took them away again; and let us do away with our new-fangled doctrine of free trade. By the way, this was the production of the right hon. Member for Liverpool, and he wished to God the thing had been suffocated in its birth—he begged a thousand pardons of the right hon. Gentleman, he
OrderCries of "Question."1313Colonel Wilson
Hear, hear would bow to the opinion of the Chair; but he would put his opinion in another way. The hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had lighted a torch which would be his own destruction. The hon. Member then proceeded with several other remarks which were in great part repetitions of many of those he had before delivered. In conclusion, he observed, that his constituents had instructed him to say, that if Parliament did not apply some effectual relief to the distress of the country, they would be obliged to go to the foot of the Throne; that was their last resource; but go they would, if obliged, and no doubt that Monarch, whom Providence had blessed with a benevolent heart, would be dissatisfied with his Majesty's Ministers for allowing his distressed people to come to him for relief. Let, then, every Representative in that House, if he were the Representative of one, two, or three persons, stand up there and tell the real tale of his constituents, and urge a remedy.—[Hear, hearColonel Wilson
, seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in his place, begged to ask whether he had received from a gentleman at New South Wales (Mr. Wentworth), a communication, or articles of impeachment against Lieutenant general Darling, the governor of that colony, in consequence of his proceedings in regard to the punishment of two soldier?, of the names of Sudds and Thomson, and the death of one of them; and if such a communication had been received, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to adopt any measures in consequence, and what those measures might be?Mr. Stewart
 then begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, if he would have any objection to lay the papers before the House.Mr. Stewart
Hear, hear said, it was his misfortune that in his first statements, and in his explanations, his meaning should be misrepresented by those who supposed their interests opposed to his views. He was in the recollection of the House as to what fell from him last night when addressing it on this subject, and to that recollection he would appeal, when he stated that nothing of the kind mentioned by his hon. friend had been uttered by him.—[Hear, hearThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was understood to say in reply, that, some arrangements were in progress respecting the assessed taxes generally, and that he would be prepared shortly to give an answer.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that many instances of surcharges were known in the country, which might be avoided if the Composition Act were renewed, but the better plan would be to abolish the taxes altogether.Sir F. Burdett
1318 moved, that the Report of the Committee of Supply be brought up, and it was brought up accordingly by Sir A. Grant.1318The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it appeared evident to him that the House was convinced that the great manufacturing and commercial towns ought to have Representatives. The want of commercial and manufacturing Representatives was severely felt—from year to year they felt the want of men competent to give the House information on matters of detail; and he had no doubt the time was at hand when he should see Representatives in that House sitting for the great towns. When he brought forward his Motion on a former occasion, relative to the subject of this species of Representation, the right hon. Gentleman opposite opposed it, not because it was a question with him whether or not the change was needed, but because he doubted whether the particular mode in which it was proposed to effect that change was or was not the most eligible. Here was a mode different from his; and the right hon. Gentleman might adopt it, and attain the object which he admitted to be desirable. For himself he had only to add, that he should vote with the hon. Member for Bletchingley.Lord John Russell
 said, he would certainly vote for the transfer to Birmingham, for it would effect a practical improvement of a valuable and important character. He felt particularly bound to give the vote he intended, seeing that he took the course he had taken with respect to Penryn on the express understanding that something like the present proposition should be adopted.Mr. Wilmot Horton
1326 was of opinion that it would be wrong to punish the innocent with the guilty; and it was not proved that all the electors of East Retford had connived at the guilt. In reference to that point the House ought, perhaps, to take into its consideration what was likely to be the resolution in another place. They were bound to look at the question in a practical point of view, and to see what would be the consequence of their own
1326The Solicitor General
 considered that some punishment ought to be inflicted on the borough, but that its guilt was not so great as to deserve total disfranchisement. He agreed, therefore, with the Motion for extending it to the hundred. Looking, however, at the signs of the times, he would submit to Ministers whether they ought not to take the great question of Reform into their own hands, and extend the franchise to our large and mercantile towns, getting rid of our depopulated boroughs. He was not for a sweeping Reform; he was not a radicial reformer; but some improvement in the Representation was now becoming necessary, and it could not be well effected unless the Government were to take it into their hands. On the present occasion he would vote for transferring the franchise to the hundred.Mr. Bransby Cooper
 explained, that he only meant to speak of the House of Lords in its judicial capacity, having to decide on the evidence brought before it; and he was misrepresented or misunderstood if it were supposed that he meant or said that the House of Commons should give up any of its privileges.The Solicitor General
13301329 said, that on such an exhausted subject he meant to detain the House but a very few minutes. Both his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and his hon. and learned friend the Solicitor General, had been misunderstood. His right hon. friend never meant to say that he should now vote for the measure, simply because he had voted for it before; but because the measure had been five times decided; because he had, on every discussion, held the same opinions, and he saw no reason to change them on the present occasion. His learned friend had not referred to the House of Peers, except in its legislative capacity. He admitted that the House of Commons was bound to form its own opinions, but his learned friend had alluded to the other House sitting in its judicial capacity, and deciding by evidence taken on oath. He did not mean to discuss the question of large towns, but the noble Lord might perhaps think it right to vote for the measure, when he saw that the Mover and Seconder of the present Motion had both voted in favour of the proposition of the noble Lord. He thought some Gentlemen under-rated the advantage of giving the franchise to the hundred. In looking at our history, he found the advantages of so extending the franchise proved by experience; and it had the merit of having been sanctioned by several great men. Lord Chatham, on the question of the delinquency of Shoreham. when he had held his well-known opinions in favour of Parliamentary Reform, did not scout transferring the franchise to Bramber. On the contrary, he congratulated himself that Shoreham had been separated from India, and united to England. There was an impression that Shoreham was attached to the East-India interest; and Lord Chatham, who was then a reformer, regarded the extending of the franchise to the borough as a great improvement. Mr. Pitt also, who was a reformer, on the question of the borough of Cricklade, was friendly to transferring the franchise to the hundred. Both he and Mr. Fox were of the same opinion. On the question of the borough of Aylesbury, Mr. Fox opposed
13301329Mr. Secretary Peel
1320 moved the Order of the Day, for the
1320Mr. N. Calvert
 admitted, that some time or other the towns spoken of must obtain Representatives; but he thought that time had not yet arrived, though it might be fast approaching.Mr. Batley
llll1323 said, he had listened very attentively to the whole of the present discussion, but he had not the good fortune to hear any argument against the proposition for giving to Birmingham the rights or privileges which the House ought to lose no time in taking from East Retford. Hon. Members had talked of maintaining a balance in the Representation of the country. He confessed he saw nothing of that supposed balance. He knew not where it was to be found—he saw nothing but undue preponderance. There were not twenty Members in that House representing the commercial and manufacturing interests. But the thing
llll1323Mr. Alderman Waithman
1331, in explanation of what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary, with reference to his motion, begged to say, that he adhered to every part of his plan; but it was a very different question whether they should add one hundred Members to the House, or
1331Lord John Russell
 objected to the clause, in the first instance, on the ground that it did not specify how the ballot was to be taken. In justice to his proposition, the hon. Member should specify the mode in which the ballot was to be taken. This, besides, was not the proper place to propose such a general principle.Mr. Peel
 perfectly concurred in every thing that had fallen from the hon. Member for Clare, and he was ready to give his hearty support to the principle advocated by that hon. Member, but he would suggest to him whether it would not be more advisable to bring such an important subject under the consideration of the House in a manner more consonant to the forms of the House, and on an occasion when he would be able to give a specific detail of the plan he meant to propose. He (Mr. Hobhouse) was a warm friend to the principle of election by ballot: he had had some experience of popular elections, and he was convinced that that was the best principle upon which elections could be conducted.Mr. Hobhouse
hear said, that was obviously not the time for discussing so great a principle as the learned Gentleman had laid down. If the hon. Member for Aberdeen would look to the preamble to the Jury Bill, he would see that the mode in which the jury was to be elected by ballot was specifically detailed there. He was decidedly opposed to the principle advocated by the hon. and learned Member for Clare, being sure that such a principle, if adopted, would be productive of far greater abuses, and of more hypocrisy than at present prevailed [hearMr. Peel
Suffragia, optimatibus nota, populo libera non sunt supported the amendment, because he conceived that the system of voting by ballot would put a stop to that intimidation over voters which was exercised, not only in small boroughs, but also in large and populous places like the city of Westminster. Nothing could be more true than the observation of the historian, "Suffragia, optimatibus nota, populo libera non suntMr. Warburton
 said, that if the object of the hon. and learned Member for Clare, in proposing this clause, were to deprive the higher orders of their legitimate influence in the State, it was an object which he could never lend his aid to accomplish. The influence of rank and property was an influence recognized by the English Constitution, and interwoven with its representative system. Although he was a friend to Parliamentary Reform to a certain extent, he should be sorry to see our Representation in the same condition as that of America. He believed that even in America there were great doubts entertained, whether the voting by ballot was a successful experiment. He hoped that the hon. and learned Member for Clare would not persist in bringing up this crude shadow of a clause, which, in point of fact, was not a clause; but that he would digest a clause explaining the details of his system, and would propose it hereafter as a rider to the bill.Mr. Stanley
1339 complained that the hon. and learned Member for Clare had not been fairly treated in this discussion. In proposing to adopt the vote by ballot at East Retford only, the hon. and learned Member had not so much followed the bent of his opinions as he had accommodated himself to the narrow views of the House. Hon. Members were accustomed to talk of the danger which was to be apprehended from making any sweeping and general alteration of the mode of election; and the hon. and learned Member for Clare, to allay the fears of those who were accustomed to fear, even where there was no danger, had called upon the House to try the experiment of voting by ballot, upon a small scale, where it could produce no danger. What stage was better suited than the present for discussing the principle of this clause? Why should the hon. and learned Gentleman involve himself in the details of such a measure, when he did not know whether the principle on which it was founded would be sanctioned by the House? He was surprised that the right hon. Secretary had not supported his objections to this change of system by better and more numerous arguments than those which he had advanced. All the arguments of the other side were prefaced by such qualifying words as, "I believe," or "I am persuaded, that danger will arise from adopting such a system." No Gentleman had more than an opinion upon the point; no Gentleman had more than faith, for which he could give no good reason, for asserting that there would be more of corruption, more of hypocrisy, and more of danger, under the system of voting by ballot than under the present system, if the great evils of the present system were corruption and intimidation, could any man doubt whether, if he deprived the corruptor and the intimidator of the means of knowing whether an act had been performed to benefit the one and to injure the other, he should not be conferring a benefit on the public? He admitted, that
1339Sir F. Burdett
1340 said, that the hon. Member for Westminster had no reason to be surprised at the paucity of the arguments with which he had supported his objections to this clause, as he had declared most explicitly to the committee, that in its present crude state he did not intend to argue it. He also reminded the hon. Baronet, that the present was a proposition which they could only argue upon presumptions, for experience as to its advantages or disadvantages they had none. As to the allusion which the hon. Baronet had made to the system of electing jurors by ballot, it bore no analogy, and could have no reference to the system of voting by ballot at elections. Did the hon. Baronet know the manner in which a jury was appointed under his bill? As he thought that the hon. Baronet was ignorant of it, he would inform him that the names of the jurors were placed indiscriminately in a box, and were taken out by chance by the officer of the court. Now surely the hon. Baronet did not intend to propose that the names of the candidates should be put into a box, and that the
1340Mr. Peel
1341 had a strong objection to the ballot system: God forbid the time should ever arrive when a British voter would be obliged to sneak into a corner to
1341Mr. G. Lamb
 did not like to give a decided opinion with respect to a proposition which was broached for the first time. He had always entertained apprehensions respecting the ballot system, and those apprehensions had not been diminished by any thing he had heard that evening. He thought that even with the ballot system it would be impossible that the manner in which individuals voted should not be known, unless the voters should resort to a system of lying and treachery which was abhorrent to the feelings of Englishmen.Lord J. Russell
 said, that since every act which Parliament had passed had been found ineffectual to prevent bribery and corruption, it became the House to adopt the remedy now proposed. It was said that the election by ballot would be productive of hypocrisy; but was there no hypocrisy under the present system? When a man was dragged to the hustings to vote for a candidate whose principles he detested, was there no hypocrisy in that?Mr. Month
 said, the Bill was very little understood in England, though it had been much discussed in Ireland. He did not believe, however, that there could be any necessity to postpone the Bill, as the hon. and learned Member must be well aware of all the objections which could be made to it. The Committee was the proper place to discuss he details of the measure, and in that stage he should have some alterations to propose.Mr. Wallace
 said, he approved of the amendments proposed to be introduced into the Act by the Bill, but he had some doubts how far the Act was suitable to Ireland, unless it were accompanied by a well-regulated system of Poor-laws, which he thought would confer an inestimable benefit on that country. Such a system, conjoined with a heavy tax on absentees, would be serviceable to all ranks and classes in Ireland, and would be hailed with gratitude throughout the country.Mr. King
 observed, that it was said, more than once last Session, that the times were at hand when Reform was unavoidable. If that were an approximation to truth, surely the best mode of providing for the agitation and excitement of such a period, come when it might, would be to put the legislature in such a situation as that it might be able to show all malcontents that justice had been done in all cases wherein reasonable complaint had been made. He had, therefore, no hesitation in declaring, before the House and the country, that if the proposition of the hon. Member for Bletchingly be not agreed to, he should feel bound, when again brought forward, to support the measure lately proposed by the noble Lord below him.Mr. Liddell
 said, he believed much of the agricultural distress was caused by importations from Ireland. He did not wish to restrict those importations, but Ireland ought, under such circumstances, to be made to bear its full share of the burthens of the country.Mr. Liddell
 rose to move, as an Amendment, "That it be an instruction to the Committee on the East Retford Bill, that they have power to exclude the Borough of East Retford from the right of electing Members to Parliament, and to enable the Town of Birmingham to return two Members." The hon. Member adverted to the former proceedings upon this subject, and particularly to the five divisions that had already occurred upon the question, that the franchise be transferred to Birmingham. He was now, for the last time, about to make the same proposition; and he thought, that if the House rejected it, such a result would tend greatly to lower the opinion entertained out of doors of the proceedings of the Representatives of the nation. Not long since, a motion had been brought forward by a noble Lord (J. Russell) and rejected, for a limited Reform, by creating six new Members, in order to give two to each of three large manufacturing and commercial towns. The plan was opposed chiefly on the ground, that thus to add to the numbers of the Members would be to destroy the proportions established at the Union with Ireland; and it was then said, that when particular cases of delinquency were established, the franchise might be removed from the offending borough to some large town that at present had no Representative. He begged to recommend East Retford to the House as a case directly in point—as if it were made for the purpose of putting to the test the sincerity of those who had so recently resisted the motion of the noble Lord. The corruption that had prevailed at East Retford was most overwhelming, and it was the only instance of the kind that had occurred since the disfranchisement of Grampound. Those who resisted his Amendment seemed to him to verify the saying of straining at gnats and swallowing camels. The hon. Gentleman concluded with the motion he had stated in the outset.Mr. Tennyson
 trusted that this clause would be withdrawn, in order that a fitter opportunity might be afforded to the House of discussing the system of vote by ballot, to which he confessed himself to be not unfriendly.Mr. Poulett Thomson
 was decidedly opposed to the principle of election by ballot. It would banish every species of confidence, and communication, and interchange of opinion between the elected and the electors, and would be productive of eternal suspicion and hypocrisy. It was an un-English, an un-Irish principle. The adoption of such a principle, he considered, would be destructive of the spirit of our Constitution.Mr. Western
 assured the Committee that it had not been his intention to take them by surprise, and to remove any suspicion of that nature, he would withdraw his proposition, and give notice that he would move it on the third reading of the Bill.Mr. O'Connell
 begged that further time might be given for the consideration of this Bill.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that though the original Act was well known in Ireland, that was not the case with the Amendment bill. He wanted to propose a clause in the Committee to enable landlords to declare that any devise of lands they might make should not be subject to that Act. He hoped, however, that the Bill would be postponed for a fortnight.Mr. O'Connell
 explained, that being a young Member, he was not very well acquainted with the forms of the House, but he had consulted those who were, and he understood from them that the principle of his proposition might then be with propriety adopted, leaving its details to be afterwards discussed.Mr. O'Connell
 moved the insertion of a clause, to the effect that the election should be taken by ballot.Mr. O'Connell
133513341333 said, before the House resolved itself into a Committee, he should move that it be an instruction to the committee, that the poll at each contested election should be taken by ballot. The object of any elector, he said, in voting for any Member of Parliament ought to be, that he thought the individual for whom he voted the best suited for public business; and the most fair way of election, in his opinion, was by ballot. Votes were influenced by two motives—those of terror and corruption. It would scarcely be asserted gravely in that House—at all events the assertion would be met with something very different from gravity elsewhere; that men were not compelled to vote at elections by improper influence, by bribery and by corruption. Now voting by ballot would altogether put an end to that. If that system were adopted, the landlord could not then compel his
133513341333Mr. O'Connell
 reminded the hon. Member that these importations were made to pay the rents of absentees, who spent their incomes in this country.Mr. O'Connell
 would not then go into the question involved in the petition before the House, particularly after the lengthened and able address of the hon. Member who spoke last, which represented the good sense, the good taste, and, no doubt, the sobriety of the city of York. But he must observe that the petitioners were greatly distressed, and required some measure of relief. He would enter more fully into this subject when it came for regular discussion.Mr. Sykes
 said, he was not present last night when his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, made his statement on moving for the appointment of the committee to inquire respecting Beer licenses and the sale of Beer; but it had been represented that his right hon. friend had said, that it was a doubt with him whether the reduction of duties on malt and beer would give the lower classes relief, and whether they would not be more benefitted by the reduction of some other tax. Be wished to ask his right hon. friend whether he had made the statement attributed to him?Mr. Littleton
1338 said, that the greatest recommendation of the vote by ballot appeared to him to be this; that if two knaves met together, one to tender and the other to receive a bribe, the more one of them could be encouraged to cheat the other, the better it would be for the public. At the same time that he announced such
1338Lord Nugent
 said, that great, and he believed well-founded complaints were made in his part of the country, in consequence of the number of surcharges in the assessed taxes, but instead of renewing the Composition Act, he did hope, such was the great distress of the country, there would be no necessity for that act, but that the right hon. Gentleman would consent to repeal the assessed taxes altogether. Great relief, he thought, would be experienced in the country if Government would even consent to a reduction of the tax on servants. A vast number of persons now out of employment would be greatly benefitted by that course. He did not mean the tax on livery servants, for those who kept them could generally afford to pay for them.Mr. Bright
 said, that as the hon. Member only wished to record his opinion, he should not delay the opportunity of doing so by making any answer to his observations.Sir H. Hardinge
 would not object to the production of the returns, and he would make them as exact as was possible; but he was sure that the correctness of what he said on the subject would be borne out; and from whatever source the hon. Member had got his information, he would find that he was mistaken.Sir H. Hardinge
 did not object to the production of the account; some ships, he observed, took out Passes without proceeding to the Mediterranean; the number of Passes, therefore, would not show the actual number of vessels going to the Mediterranean.—Motion agreed to.Mr. Croker
 said, he could not acquiesce in so long a delay.Mr. Doherty
 said, the Bill had been for some time on the Table of the House, and must therefore be well known; if, however, a week's delay would satisfy the hon. and learned Gentleman, he would acquiesce in his wish.Mr. Doherty
 moved the second reading of the Sub-letting Act Amendment Bill.Mr. Doherty
 owned himself an ardent friend to Parliamentary Reform, but declared his intention of opposing at all times, and in all places, any attempt to introduce the vote by ballot into our elective system.Mr. John Martin
 was of opinion that the measure should be postponed till the opinions of the people of Ireland were better known on the subject.Mr. North
1336 said, the insertion of the
1336Mr. Hume
 said, that what he had stated the other night, with respect to the army pay and allowances in the present year and in 1792, had been controverted by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir H. Hardinge). He, however, was confident that the accounts would show his statement to be correct, and he would therefore move for "A Return of the rate of pay and allowances to officers and men in the Army in the years 1792 and 1829, and for similar returns as to the Navy and Ordnance."Mr. Hume
1317s said, that any one who attended to the mode in which the Assessed Taxes were collected, must be aware of the great and unnecessary severity frequently exercised in the collection, and the great number of the surcharges which were made. He had moved for an account of those surcharges, the returns to which would satisfy the House, he believed, of the great annoyance to which the public were exposed in this way. He understood that it was a practice in the board of Taxes, when a person was in arrear, for the solicitor to the board to write to him, calling on him for payment, and to charge 71317sMr. Hume
 said, that he was anxious to record his opinion on this subject, that, it might appear upon the Journals to what extent he wished the reductions in the Army to be carried. He would remind the hon. Members for Suffolk and York, who talked so loudly of the distresses of the country, that if they wished to obtain relief from taxation, they could only accomplish their object by reducing the present, overwhelming military establishment. The enormous numbers of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, were the most oppressive burthen the nation had to sustain; for the pay must necessarily be in proportion to the establishments. He begged, therefore, to state what he thought, in the present state of the kingdom, would be the proper reduction. In 1792 the three regiments of Horse Guards amounted to 779 men: now they were 1,304 men. These he would reduce by 525 men. The Foot Guards, in 1792, were 3,756 men strong: now the number was 5,726 men; he would cut off all the increase. The Cavalry, in 1792, amounted to 5,409: now it was 7,157 men, that force ought to be brought back to its former state. The Household Troops, in 1799, were 6,554 men: now they were 14,118 men; in them there might be a reduction of 7564 men. All these excesses ought to be reduced so as to bring back the establishments to the standard of 1792. It was nothing more than was reasonable, and what the suffering people had a right to expect. These were not times when it was fit to keep up a large military force for the sake of empty show and vulgar parade. Neither did the internal state of the kingdom require the presence of a large standing army; and it would be still less necessary if, as he understood, the new police system, which had answered so well, were to be extended. Ireland too was tranquil, and might spare some of the military that had been kept in that country. The vote required was nominally for 88,000 men, but the effective force, he believed, would be about 81,000 men, and of these 10,000 might be easily spared; and for a reduction to that extent he begged to move an amendment.Mr. Hume
ll1316l, adverting to what had just passed in the House as to the state of the Shipping interest, observed, that he hoped, if the subject should be brought forward, the great charges to which vessels were subjected for lights and pilotage, which he understood were very heavy, and of course proportionately diminished their profits, would be taken into consideration. There was another charge to which part of our shipping was subjected, and on which he had a motion to submit to the House,—he meant the charge for Mediterranean Passes. This, he understood, was about 5ll1316lMr. Hume
 informed the hon. Baronet that the Free Trade, which he did not seem to like, would be attended ultimately with as much benefit to the agriculturists, as to the other classes.Mr. Hume
 wished to enter his protest against the vote for Seamen and Marines. The Finance Committee of 1817 had recommended that the whole amount of Seamen and Marines should be 19,000 men; yet the vote for the present year, after so long a continuation of peace, was not less than 29,000 men, at least 10,000 more men than ought to be granted.Mr. Hume
 entered into a brief history of the Bill, and reminded the House, that the original proposition of Mr. Canning was, to give the Members for East Retford to the agricultural interests, and the Members for Penryn to the manufacturing interests. The learned Gentleman was proceeding to show why this plan had failed, in consequence of the evidence not being sufficient to prove the bribery at Penryn, when he was interrupted by calls of "No, No;" and he concluded, merely by observing, that the time was now come when the opinions of the people were so plainly directed to the necessity of putting an end to the corruptions which prevailed in some of the borough towns, and to the propriety of conferring a right of Representation on the great places of trade and manufacture, that he really thought it would be little less than a species of infatuation to resist their wishes, or to refuse to adopt a course which would contribute to the safety of the Government, and at the same time diffuse satisfaction among all those who considered themselves entitled to the distinction for which they prayed.Dr. Phillimore
 presented a Petition from certain shopkeepers of Somersetshire, against the traffic carried on by hawkers and pedlers.Sir T. Lethbridge
 explained, that he did not attribute to the hon. and learned Gentleman so monstrous a doctrine as that that House was to be governed by what some Members might suppose would be agreeable to the other House.Mr. Spring Rice
1327 was surprised to hear some of the doctrines of the learned Solici-
1327Mr. Spring Rice
 presented a Petition from certain Jews, praying to be relieved from the disabilities under which they laboured on account of their religious belief. The right hon. Gentleman expressed his cordial concurrence in the prayer of the petition, and intimated his intention to support the bill to be brought in by the hon. Member for Inverness for the relief of the Jews.Mr. Huskisson
 did not, after the discussion which the subject had undergone, intend to trouble the House with more than a very few observations. The great principle which ought to govern their decision was, not that the landed or the agricultural interests should be properly represented, but that every interest should be represented. The question was, whether they should give a Representative to Birmingham—to one of the chief places of that interest which they had acknowledged, the other evening, to be the cause of much of the prosperity of the landed and of all the other interests of the country. Without the manufacturing and commercial industry of Lancashire, Warwickshire, and Yorkshire, the land of those countries would be worth comparatively little. Whatever might be the fate of the Amendment then before the House, he consoled himself by the reflection, that the time was not far distant when Government would find itself compelled to propose the very reformations which it now rejected.Mr. Huskisson
1321 seconded it. As to the guilt of East Retford, he said he had never entertained a doubt: but even if it had not been so distinctly established, the punishment it was proposed to inflict was not such as to require strict legal proof of
1321Mr. W. Smith
 put the Question, that he should leave the chair.The Speaker
. —Order, order.—The hon. Member has already stated that if in the heat of discussion he should say any thing trenching on the fair limits of debate, he would bow on being reminded of it from the Chair. The hon. Member, in what he has just said, though no doubt unconsciously, is quite irregular. If the communication to which he alludes refers to any thing which fell from any hon. Member in this House, it was disorderly in those who made it in the first instance, and it would be still more disorderly to act upon such communication here.The Speaker
 here called "order."The Speaker
 informed the hon. Member, that the question now before the House was, that he (the Speaker) do leave the chair. When that was carried, and the House went into committee, it would be open to the hon. Member to move the insertion of the clause he proposed in the bill.The Speaker
cheers wished to state the reasons for the vote he meant to give. He was satisfied from experience that many of the towns of England required to be represented in that House. As the Representative of a county, he was enabled, from his own experience, to say, that those who might sit for the counties in which great towns were situated, were totally unequal to the duty of representing them in that House. All great towns should, if possible, have Representatives of their own; it would be nothing less than the business of a life to acquire the knowledge requisite for efficiently representing a great commercial or manufacturing community. Such large towns were not represented by the county Members. An ordinary county was quite enough for two Members. In making these observations, he begged it to be distinctly understood as not advocating those sweeping and general plans of Reform so often mentioned in Parliament. He was no friend to measures of that nature, but he thought it would be a most important improvement in the system, if some of the great towns could be represented in that House, and not left to depend upon what could be done for them, from time to time, by the Members for the counties in which they were situated. It was upon those grounds that he was prepared to support the proposed transfer. It was his usual habit to support his Majesty's Government; but he should be ashamed were he not capable of giving an independent vote upon every important occasion; representing, as he did, a great county, he felt that nothing less was his duty [cheersSir C. Cole
1310 was glad to hear that the support of his hon. friend would be given to measures for the relief of the general distress. He did not believe, how-
1310Sir E. Knatchbull
 added, that according to his recollection, no such action had occurred, as it usually found its way into the Gazette. He would take care to inform himself on the subject against the next Supply-day.Sir G. Cockburn
 regretted that the noble Lord had not given him notice that he meant to put the question, as he was at present unprepared with regard to the facts. He could say at once, that there was no reason for excluding it from the Gazette; and if it had not been inserted, it was because it was not such an affair as was usually thus recorded. Every thing that was right and proper had been done by Sir Edward Codrington; but it could hardly be called a brilliant action, except in intention. On the British ships insisting that the Turks should return to Navarino, they did return, and, according to the best of his memory, without a shot having been fired on either side.Sir G. Cockburn
 did not deny that there were towns fit for and requiring; representation; but he had, on the former occasion voted for the motion of the hon. Member for Hertford, and he should continue to observe the same course, for he. had heard no argument to disturb his former opinion. Did the question then come before the House for the first time, he might, perhaps, vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Bletchingley.Sir George Murray
 was understood to say, on this subject he should exercise his own discretion. He could not answer further then, though it was open to the hon. Member to move for them.Sir George Murray
1315 answered that no doubt he had received such a communication as the hon. Member alluded to, but
1315Sir George Murray
 wished to take that opportunity of asking the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was his intention to renew the Assessed Taxes' Composition Act, which was about to expire. Great convenience had been the result of that Act, and much prevention of surcharge experienced by its operation.Sir M. W. Ridley
 wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he had heard his question, or if any particular feeling prevented him from answering it at present?Sir M. W. Ridley
1322 agreed fully in the proposition of giving to Birmingham those rights of which East Retford ought to be deprived. The time had at last arrived when the manufacturing interests ought to be represented. They ought to have Members in that House, both as a matter of justice to them, of advantage to the country at large, and of convenience and benefit to the Parliament. There was no department or branch of British society which more contributed to the wealth and greatness of the empire, than did the manufacturing classes. It was the wealth which the State derived from them which had enabled it to carry on the tremendous war in which we had been engaged for so many years; and it was a due regard to their interests and their rights, which would alone carry us through the difficulties which that war had entailed upon the country. The manufacturing was a great and powerful interest, and one which it would be alike unjust and dangerous to leave without adequate Representation. As to the disfranchisement of East Retford, in that he should most cordially concur, even if it were not to be attended with the advantage of imparting to Birmingham rights
1322Mr. Ferguson
 rose to present a Petition on the subject of Agricultural Distress, from the county of Suffolk. The hon. Member observed, that the petition came from a great body of agriculturists, assembled at a county meeting, convened by the high sheriff. Persons of all classes and ways of thinking attended—gentlemen, yeomen, Tories, Whigs, and Radicals,—and all united in one common object, that of petitioning the House, and representing the great agricultural distress which existed in Suffolk. This was not a party question. No man was less disposed to hold factious language than himself; but this was a time when Gentlemen of all parties should unite in declaring the sufferings of their constituents, and he agreed cordially with the hon. Member for Cumberland, that if the country gentlemen felt themselves injured they were bound to defend themselves. It was impossible to deny the existence of agricultural distress. It might be said to him, "You are a supporter of the Administration;" it was perfectly true that he was, but he could not conceal his sentiments on this subject. As to the causes of the distress, he believed that the alteration of the currency had done some mischief, but he differed from the petitioners in supposing that another alteration in that would give them relief. The evils arising from that source were, he believed, nearly over.Sir T. Gooch
 explained, that he had meant that the evils arising from the alteration of the currency had passed the acme, and were diminishing. He did not mean that agricultural distress was on the wane.Sir Thomas Gooch
 rose to put a question to the hon. and gallant admiral opposite. Shortly previous to the battle of Navarino a most brilliant action had occurred at Patras, no account of which had been inserted in the Gazette. The Turkish fleet of sixty vessels had sailed from Navarino to Patras; their entrance of that port was opposed by Sir E. Codrington, with only two frigates to support him, and he succeeded, against an immense superiority of force, in compelling the Turkish fleet to return. This affair was, in point of fact, the commencement of hostilities; and he wished to know why it had not found its way into the Gazette?Lord Althorp
 observed, that shots were fired; the British ships had opened a fire upon the Turks.Lord Althorp
 observed, he could not deny that the transfer of the franchise to Bassetlaw would be an improvement, but he thought the House ought to consider the very great importance of the manufacturing districts, and the necessity of gratifying their inhabitants on the subject of Representation. He did not feel himself at all called on to consider the case of the County of York as applying to the question, because the two additional Members were not more Representatives of the great manufacturing, than of the agricultural districts of that extensive county. The arguments of proportion used by the right hon. Secretary were, in his opinion, of no weight, and they ought not to influence the vote of the House.Lord Althorp
 was of opinion that the system of voting by ballot would diminish, not the legitimate, but only the undue influence of the aristocracy. He was favourable to the principle of voting by ballot, but thought that the hon. Member for Clare had selected an inconvenient opportunity for bringing it under the consideration of the House.Lord Althorp
 was sure the trustees were anxious to afford every facility to the public in their power, compatible with the safety and integrity of the various treasures intrusted to their care. He agreed with the hon. Member for Bristol, that if the reading-room and Museum were open on Saturdays, the Sabbath would be expended in regulating matters for the ensuing week.—Resolution agreed to.Mr. D. Gilbert
l moved that 126,000lSir H. Hardinge
lllll wished to direct the attention of the Committee to the annually-increasing amount of the present estimate. The whole amount of pensions, superannuations, and allowances of this description in 1827 was 5,456,000lllllMr. Maberly
1356 thought, that this grant really deserved more consideration than he had ever been able to obtain for it. A great part of this vote went to support military sinecures. No sooner was one governor dead than another was appointed in his
1356Mr. Hume
l replied, that all these offices and appointments stood on a peculiar basis; namely, that of being the only means in the hands of the Crown for the remuneration of old officers. He readily admitted that they were military sinecures; but, when he stated how few they were, they amounting only to seventy, compared to the list of 13,000 officers on full and half-pay, whose services they might be bestowed to reward, he thought it would be ungracious indeed to deprive the Crown of this mode of repaying old, and faithful, and disabled officers. He would add, that the greater number of these offices did not give the holders of them above 200lSir H. Hardinge
 thought, that naval officers should have a similar provision, or at least that they should participate in the like retiring bounty.Mr. Sadler
 thought that, on the whole, British officers were worse paid than those of any other European army: still upon principle he objected to this mode of remuneration by sinecures.Mr. Maberly
 complained of the form in which these accounts were made out. Why not put some of these items of expenditure upon the head of effective service, instead of making them up under colonial accounts? These colonies ought to be made to supply this expenditure, instead of palming upon Great Britain the payment of their governors, lieutenant-governors, town-majors, &c. Mr. Hume
1357 assured the hon. Mem-
1357Sir H. Hardinge
nem. con.nem. con."(Signed) W. PULTENEY.""It is his Majesty's pleasure, that all colonels, now and late in the army, do certify to me the date of each officer's commission reduced out of their respective regiments, to the intent that all officers so reduced may be provided for according to his Majesty's pleasure, signified to me as above by his grace the Duke of Marlborough; and the said colonels are hereby required to send such certificates as soon as possible.1358To the Secretary-at-war.To the Secretary-at-war.June 30th"June 30th"MARLBOROUGH."Sir;—His Majesty being determined to provide as soon as possible for the broken officers, as well as those who are upon half-pay, with intent to ease the nation in time of the burthen thereof, as to reward the particular merit of those officers who have distinguished themselves during the course of the late war by their services, I am commanded to signify to you his pleasure, that as any commission shall happen hereafter to become vacant in the army, of what degree soever it be, the same shall always be filled up with a half-pay officer; and that for the future no person through favour, interest, or any other practices, may unjustly obtain a commission to which he has no right, in prejudice of another officer older than himself. It is his Majesty's pleasure, that the first regard shall always be had to the seniority of the commission, provided his Majesty shall have good reason to be satisfied of the character and merit of the person, and of his zeal and fidelity for his service: still observing, that a reduced officer of the same rank in the regiment where such vacancy happens, is to be preferred before all others. This his Majesty's pleasure you have to cause to be entered in the books of your office as a standing rule and direction in this behalf.—I am, Sir, your obedient humble servant,l objected, and complained; that the Government had not reduced this list, by filling up commissions from it as vacancies enabled them, instead of saddling the country with new pensioners. In 1818 this vote was 661,000nem. con.nem. con."(Signed) W. PULTENEY.""It is his Majesty's pleasure, that all colonels, now and late in the army, do certify to me the date of each officer's commission reduced out of their respective regiments, to the intent that all officers so reduced may be provided for according to his Majesty's pleasure, signified to me as above by his grace the Duke of Marlborough; and the said colonels are hereby required to send such certificates as soon as possible.1358To the Secretary-at-war.To the Secretary-at-war.June 30th"June 30th"MARLBOROUGH."Sir;—His Majesty being determined to provide as soon as possible for the broken officers, as well as those who are upon half-pay, with intent to ease the nation in time of the burthen thereof, as to reward the particular merit of those officers who have distinguished themselves during the course of the late war by their services, I am commanded to signify to you his pleasure, that as any commission shall happen hereafter to become vacant in the army, of what degree soever it be, the same shall always be filled up with a half-pay officer; and that for the future no person through favour, interest, or any other practices, may unjustly obtain a commission to which he has no right, in prejudice of another officer older than himself. It is his Majesty's pleasure, that the first regard shall always be had to the seniority of the commission, provided his Majesty shall have good reason to be satisfied of the character and merit of the person, and of his zeal and fidelity for his service: still observing, that a reduced officer of the same rank in the regiment where such vacancy happens, is to be preferred before all others. This his Majesty's pleasure you have to cause to be entered in the books of your office as a standing rule and direction in this behalf.—I am, Sir, your obedient humble servant,lMr. Hume
 said, that he understood the right hon. Gentleman's remark applied to the troops of the line; but had there not been, at the same time, new commissions given in the Guards and Household Troops?Mr. Hume
 said, that there had been a reduction of certain companies in these troops, although, of course, some fresh ensigns must have been appointed since the peace.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he could not understand why our army should not be governed on the same principles as the armies of the continental states. In the French army there was no half-pay or pensions, except for wounds or being disabled in the service. Quarter-pay, not half-pay, was the reward for mere service. Though those armies had not the large pay and emoluments of our troops, they were not less efficient.Mr. Monck
 reminded his hon. friend, that the British officers purchase their commissions, which the officers of none of the continental armies did.Mr. Maberly
dslldsl acknowledged the justice of the remark, and added, that, in future, half-pay was in fact to be given contingent on a certain period of service on full-pay.dslldslSir H. Hardinge
l observed, that the time was come for doing away with this grant. In this case the pay of the officers alone was no less than 11,300lMr. Hume
 replied, he believed Chelsea about 500, and Kilmainham about 400.Sir H. Hardinge
 thought the whole charge enormous for such a few persons.Mr. Hume
 explained, that the expense of the establishment was not only for the maintenance of the men within the hospital but for the payment of 8,500 out pensioners. Kilmainham could not be abolished without increasing the expense, but reductions were in progress.Sir H. Hardinge
ll said, he was glad to hear that, but he hoped the reductions would be principally in the salaries of the superior officers; for the clerks of Chelsea Hospital were worse paid than the officers of any other Government establishment, while the paymaster received 1,200llMr. Hume
 was of the same opinion, and had wished the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to raise the salaries of those clerks, but could not get him to advance one shilling.Mr. Calcraft
1361 asked, whether there was
1361Lord Althorp
 said, that when applied to by the hon. Member on the subject, he had asked the very same question as the noble Lord had just put.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no wish to see the salaries of those clerks increased, but he thought that the salaries in other departments ought to be brought down to the scale adopted at Chelsea Hospital.— Resolution carried.Mr. Hume
 noticed the frauds which had been committed by claimants on this fund, and complimented the right hon. the Secretary of War for the inquiry he had instituted, and the money he had been thereby enabled to save the country. He declared his conviction, that if the late Secretary of War, the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor, had continued in office, that inquiry would not have been set on foot.Mr. Hume
 inquired if any commanding officer had lent himself to the abuses which had been detected?Sir John Wrottesley
 replied, not one. The parties were interested persons, and the system of fraud was found out by a forgery having been detected. He had good reason to believe that it would not happen again.Sir H. Hardinge
 inquired whether the regimental books were not under the care of the adjutants?Sir John Wrottesley
 replied, that the frauds were committed several years ago, and in most of the cases the adjutants had been removed.Sir H. Hardinge
1362 admitted that this explanation was satisfactory, but he was bound to observe that these abuses could not have been perpetrated without gross mismanagement. He did not mean to enter into details, but it was a plain common sense view that the country could not possibly support in idleness a vast number of persons whose maintenance cost the country as much as the whole effective army. While the labourer was obliged to work fifteen or sixteen hours a day for a miserable pittance, that scarcely preserved his existence, the pensioned soldier
1362Sir John Wrottesley
 said, that the number of persons on the half-pay list was 81,000. Mr. Trant believed that the discovery of the frauds was accidental, and he affirmed that the hon. member for Montrose was not warranted in casting any reflection on the noble Lord the late Secretary-at-War.Sir H. Hardinge
 did not mean to cast any reflection on the noble Lord, but he did not think the discovery was altogether accidental. A person was tried by a court martial, which found the charge vexatious; the circumstances which transpired led to an inquiry, and the accuser was dismissed from the army. From what had then occurred he was satisfied that the abuses could not have taken place, if the attestations required had been preserved at the War-Office. He believed that these frauds were quite unknown to the officers, but he also believed that they could not have occurred had there not been a considerable degree of negligence in not enrolling the attestations.Mr. Hume
 said, it was not possible, under the old system, to check those frauds, and he must say that both the War-Office and the late Secretary at War were entirely blameless.Sir H. Hardinge
 complained that half of the amount voted was expended on the officers, instead of being applied to the benefit of the orphans in the institution. He admitted that the objects of the charity were meritorious, but he must contend, that under the circumstances of the country a reduction in the expense ought to take place.Sir John Wrottesley
 said, that that institution grew out of a state of war, was at present uncalled for, and would, he hoped, be gradually done away.Mr. Hume
l1363 did not concur in opinion with the hon. Member for Aberdeen. The country was bound to provide for the
l1363Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he was of opinion that if there were no establishment, then there would be no children to provide for; the friends and relatives of the orphans would take care of them; but as long as the Government took the charge upon it, the relatives naturally said, why should we be inconvenienced by those whom the Government taxes us to provide for. Children were accordingly sent from all parts. Public establishments put an end to private charity. Once say, that after 1831 or 1832 this establishment should cease, and nothing more would be heard of orphans claiming the support of the country.Mr. Hume
 thought, if the vote were continued, it ought to be more definitely appropriated. It could not for one moment be affirmed, that all the children of soldiers who chose to marry should be supported at the national expense. In principle he thought the children should not have a claim, as a matter of right, to be placed in the Asylum.Mr. Monck
 supported the grant, because it was proper to provide for the children of those who had died in the service of the country.Sir John Sebright
 said, that great reductions had been made in the establishment since the peace.Sir H. Hardinge
ll was of opinion, that if this principle of providing for the children of those who died in the public service were once admitted, it ought to be extended to all functionaries, and then he did not know why the committee should not grant 40,000llMr. Hume
 was also opposed to the grant, being convinced, by what the hon. Member for Montrose said., that if the public did not undertake to provide for such orphans they would be taken care of by their friends.Mr. Protheroe
1364 assured the Committee that no larger sum would ever be required, and he would also assert that the strictest
1364Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that the number of widows who died and the number who were put upon the list during the year ought to be specifically detailed. He inquired whether any regulations had been adopted by Government since last Session, as to the manner of granting these pensions. It was necessary to have more information before voting the sum required.Mr. Hume
 said, that these pensions were in future to be granted only to the widows of officers who had served ten years, and who had been on full pay for that period, or to the widows of officers who had been killed in action. It had also been settled, that when the widow married again, the pension should cease.Sir H. Hardinge
 thought it desirable, that the estimates for Navy and Ordnance pensions should be placed upon the same footing with the Army. There was a reduction of five per cent made upon the pensions of the soldier, while no such reduction was made in the pensions granted to the Artillery or the Navy. The soldier, therefore, considered himself plundered, though, if the Estimates were properly stated, he would see that credit was given him for the reduction of five per cent in his pension. All the military and naval pensions should therefore be stated in the same way.Mr. Hume
 said, the reduction of five per cent was made upon the pensions of the soldiers serving in the line, by an Act passed in the reign of Geo. 2nd, and it was then conceived but fair, that such reduction should not apply to the Ordnance, as the individual serving in the Ordnance was at the expense of his agency, and it was thought also, at that time, that he could not be admitted to Chelsea Hospital. The reduction was, in fact, equal, both in the Line and in the Ordnance.Sir H. Hardinge
1366llllllllllll1365 contended, that we ought to take example by France and America, and endeavour to reduce the present extravagant expenditure connected with our army. He objected to the extravagant amount of this estimate. Why should officers' widows receive pensions, while
1366llllllllllll1365Mr. Monck
 thought it was monstrous that the country should be called on to vote pensions for upwards of a thousand widows, and that no specific information should be laid before the House of the circumstances which made it proper to grant those pensions. A detailed description of every new case for which a pension was granted, with an account of the number of pensions which ceased every year, ought annually to be submitted to Parliament.Mr. Hume
1367 had no objection to lay such information before Parliament, as to the classes of officers whose widows were receiving pensions; but there was no
1367Sir Henry Hardinge
 vindicated the Opposition side of the House from the charge of encouraging extravagance. Only the year before last, the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues opposed the reduction of the useless office of Lieut. General of the Ordnance.Lord Howick
 suggested, that as all pensions were only granted as a means of support to persons supposed to be otherwise destitute, that pensions ought in all cases to be withdrawn when the circumstances of the persons rendered them independent of that means of subsistence.Mr. John Stewart
 wished to know whether care was taken in the granting of the last-mentioned pensions, that the officers to whom they were granted were wounded, as he had known individuals without wounds in the receipt of such pensions.Mr. Hume
 said, that an officer must, under the existing regulations, undergo the examination of five medical men, and he must prove before the Medical Board, that he had suffered a permanent injury, equal to the loss of a limb, before a pension could be granted for a wound. That examination also must take place five years after the wound had been received, and if it could not then be proved that the injury was permanent, no pension was granted.Sir H. Hardinge
 inquired what was meant by "The Compassionate List" and "The Royal Bounty."Mr. Monck
1368 explained, that the former was to provide for orphans, and
1368Sir H. Hardinge
 further inquired if those widows were not entitled to pensions under the preceding estimate. To him it appeared that these widows was the very class of persons for whom the last estimate was meant to provide.Mr. Monck
lll replied, that the allowances were not, in fact, granted to the widows who might have no claim, or having a claim, might also have large families, and no means to provide for them, but were granted to the children of those who had fallen in battle. The total amount of pensions under this head did not exceed 40,000lllSir H. Hardinge
 said there were no means, if these items were not included in the regular estimates for the army, of checking the amount of them, which might grow up to be enormous.Mr. Hume
 said, if the Compassionate Fund went to provide for the children of those who had died in the service, the Royal Bounty was limited to persons whose husbands or fathers had been killed in the service. Such an employment of funds was one, he was sure, which the Committee would never refuse to sanction by its vote.Sir H. Hardinge
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether this estimate were made up in conformity with the Act of Parliament? Pensions sanctioned by the Treasury, or by an order of Council, were not legal until sanctioned by that House. There was no better mode of checking these pensions than by having them specifically stated in the army as they now were in the navy. He would recommend to the hon. and gallant Secretary that this should in future be done.Mr. Maberly
1369 admitted that these pensions were specifically stated in the Ordnance estimates; but said that that was not ordered by the Act of Parliament, but had been adopted in consequence of a
1369Sir H. Hardinge
 suggested, that the particulars of every case in which superannuation was granted should be made out.Lord Sandon
 agreed with his noble friend, that such an account would be very desirable.Sir H. Hardinge
 expressed himself of the same opinion, and thought that the names of pensioners, and the length of their service should be added. He wished to know how it was that such a number of Lieutenant-governors of the Military School were placed on the pension list.Mr. Hume
 explained, that the late Lieutenant-governor was upwards of seventy years of age, and at that time of life a man ceased to be very fit to manage young boys. And as it was customary to give the situation to officers of long standing and respectability, a few years additional service at the college brought their public lives to a close.Sir H. Hardinge
 inquired if the present Lieutenant-governor of the Military College received pay from any other corps or office.Mr. Hume
 replied, that the Lieutenant-governor was a Lieutenant-colonel of Cavalry, and received his regimental pay as well as his staff pay, consistently with the rule of the service.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that was a practice to which he must object, as in fact it kept out of sight a part of the expense of the establishment. When an officer was placed on the staff in India, his regimental pay ceased, and he thought the same rule ought to be followed at home.Mr. Hume
 said, that it had always been customary for the officers in the English service to retain their regimental pay when placed on the staff, and he thought he could prove that this practice was at once the most economical, as well as the fairest. At the close of the war the staff officers returned to their regiments, and continued in active service without any additional expense to the country.Sir H. Hardinge
 was of opinion that the hon. Member for Aberdeen made a mistake as to the Indian army, the officers of which, when placed on the staff, continued to receive their regimental pay.Colonel Baillie
 said, that as he had been a Paymaster himself for some years he could venture to say that he was right.Mr. Hume
 and Mr. Maberly both objected to the payment of these fees, which they considered disgraceful to the country.Mr. Hume
 rose to ask the hon. Secretary when he meant to bring up the Report, as he intended upon that occasion to propose a Resolution to the following effect:—" That it is the opinion of this House, that as long as the regulation is in force by which Officers on the Half-pay of the Army, Navy, Ordnance, and Marine, are prevented from receiving the whole of their half-pay, or any part thereof, whilst they are enjoying the emoluments of civil office, it is expedient and just that the same regulation should extend to officers on full-pay of the Army, Navy, Marine, and Ordnance, who enjoy the emoluments of civil office, or of any other naval and military allowances."Mr. Gordon
 said, that it would be most agreeable to him to have the report on these resolutions brought up to-morrow. He should certainly oppose this resolution; and if the gentlemen who had motions for to-morrow would give him precedence for but half an hour, he thought that he could dispose of it most effectually in that time.Sir H. Hardinge
, in moving that it be printed, said, he was sure the House would feel much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the pains he had taken in elucidating a subject of so much interest to parties having to introduce private bills. The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 presented a Petition from the borough of Eye, complaining of agricultural distress, and praying for relief. He was aware of the great distress which that class suffered, and he did earnestly hope that some measure would be adopted for their relief.Sir E. Kerrison
1346 presented two Petitions from the county of Salop, praying for a reduc-
1346Lord Clive
1352 was much surprised that the matter had not been gazetted at the time of its occurrence. It was strange that a transaction so essential to the
1352Lord J. Russell
 moved the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply. He was anxious to take advantage of that opportunity to request the hon. Member for Aberdeen to postpone his motion, which stood for Wednesday, for abolishing the office of Receiver-general of Taxes, till he had heard his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) promised financial statement.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l moved that 16,143lMr. Bankes
 begged leave to suggest the expediency of keeping the reading-room of the Museum open to a certain hour in the evening. He would suggest that it ought to be kept open at least till six o'clock. There were many respectable gentlemen, clerks in public offices, to whom such an arrangement would be peculiarly grateful, being engaged all day at business, and thereby prevented from availing themselves of the advantages which the national library afforded. Should no other hon. Member urge the matter to the Trustees of the Museum, he would, on a future occasion, bring the matter before the House.Mr. Jephson
1354 begged leave to say, in reply to the hon. Member for Montrose, that the officers of the Museum were engaged six days of the week, though the Museum was, as he had stated, open but three days to the public. On the other days it was usual for the trustees to admit their friends, and those who sought a private visit, as a favour, to the Museum. With respect to the falling-off in the number of visiters, he was sure the House would be gratified to learn, that though there was a diminution of the number of visiters to the Museum, there was a larger increase in the number of students who frequented the reading-room, and studied in the gallery of art. He was ready to admit, in answer to the observations of the hon. Member for Mallow, (Mr. Jephson) that it was very desirable that the public should enjoy every facility of reference to the library consistent with its
1354Mr. Bankes
 was sure, that under no circumstances would the House or the trustees of the Museum consent to the abstraction of a single volume from its present locality. He also objected strongly to introduce either fire or lights into the library.Mr. Bankes
 said, he should like to hear any valid reason against the reading-rooms being open on Saturdays; and in summer till seven or eight in the evening, when no fire or candles would be necessary.Mr. Jephson
1392139113901389 said, he could not allow the present discussion to close without making a few observations. When he considered the great responsibility which devolved upon public functionaries, he had no hesitation in saying, that, when guilty of error, if it were found that they acted at the same time with upright intentions, and were actuated by conscientious feelings, he had not the slightest hesitation in saying that they were entitled to the most indulgent consideration. But if, as in the case of the governor of Bombay, it was found that the parties had acted in a manner the most discreet, prudent, and proper, he thought they had a double claim to be supported by the Government; and that claim would, he thought, be recognized by the House. He wished to have it understood, that he desired, like his right hon. friend Mr. Wynne, with whom he concurred, to leave the legal question entirely out of view—they had nothing to do with the legal question. The hon. and learned Member for Clare, however, had discussed the legal question; a proceeding which had been rendered altogether unnecessary by the decision of the Privy Council—a tribunal much more competent to decide such a question than was that House. The authority of that decision, he believed, would not be lightly questioned, when it was recollected that two Chief Justices, Lord Tenterden and Sir N. Tindal were present, as also Lord Wynford, and his right hon. friend, whose habits, professional and official, so fully qualified him for assisting in such a decision. He had no doubt the House would feel that it was not necessary to place the independence of Indian judges upon a lower footing than that of English judges; this was not a case affecting their independence, but a question relating to the assumption of authority unwarrantable and dangerous. For the exercise of
1392139113901389Mr. Secretary Peel
 explained, that he meant to cast no censure on Sir J. P. Grant.Mr. C. Fergusson
 expressed his regret that Government, after having, at so short a period before, expressed its readiness to supply Parliament with all possible information concerning India, should refuse the first paper it had been asked to produce. The question had not been fairly met by his opponents; for all the arguments they had urged about the jurisdiction of the Court at Bombay, and the decision of the Privy Council, had nothing to do with the question. The Letter of Lord Ellenborough was obviously a public document, because it was an answer to representations sent from the Indies before the noble Lord was in office. He was in hopes that the documents he moved for would have tended to justify the Bombay Government. Thinking that the correspondence would at least elucidate that conduct, and being willing to put the professions of the Government, to which he had just alluded, to the test, he should certainly like to take the sense of the House on his Motion.Mr. Stewart
 hoped the hon. Member would allow the Bill to proceed, considering the length of time it had been in the House, and how often it had been discussed, he did not think this an unreasonable request.Mr. Nicolson Calvert
 said, he must oppose the further progress of the Bill.Mr. Stewart
 put it to the candid consideration of the hon. Member, whether such a course would be advisable, after the numberless discussions the Bill had undergone.Mr. Secretary Peel
 was of opinion, that the Bill had been amply discussed, and ought not to be delayed.Sir John Sebright
1388HabeasHabeas Corpus1387Habeas Corpus,1386 said, he hoped the House would do him the justice to believe, that no relations subsisting between him and the East-India Company could have the effect of influencing the vote he intended to give on that occasion. He had given the question then under discussion the fullest, and, he trusted, the most dispassionate consideration, and that led him to the conviction that the Court of Bombay had decided in error. He had had the advantage of passing seventeen years of his professional life in India, in the course of which a considerable quantity and variety of business came under his observation, and within the sphere of his practice; he might say, perhaps, that he had more professional business than any man in India; yet in the course of that he never had the slightest reason to imagine that any judge could think of saying that there was no native of India not subject to the jurisdiction of the British courts in India. He was quite sure that no lawyer would differ from him, when he said that no natives were subject to British courts except such as were distinctly specified to be so. If the inferior court were wrong —of which he had not the slightest doubt —the Supreme Court was not less in error. Had such doctrines as were now contended for by the Supreme Court been maintained since our first conquests in India, our hold of our Indian possessions would now be extremely insecure. A pledge has been held out to the inhabitants beyond the pale of the English courts, that they should be allowed to retain their Hindoo laws to which they were attached. Had they supposed that they would have been subjected to laws with which they were unacquainted, they could not have been induced to submit to British authority. The liability to British laws, on the part of Hindoos, was what no judge had ever thought of, and it was a doctrine which he expected would never receive the sanction of any man acquainted either with the law or with the state of India. It was, he conceived, indisputable that English laws had their local boundaries in India. On these grounds, then, he thought there ought to be a declaratory act, and, that it
1388HabeasHabeas Corpus1387Habeas Corpus,1386Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
13951394 rose to propose a clause similar to that which was proposed in the case of Penryn. When that was proposed hon. Members objected to it on account of its applying only to one borough, and expressed themselves willing to vote for some general measure; and yet when a noble Lord, a few nights before, proposed a general declaration applying to all boroughs, the
13951394Mr. Stewart
 said, the hon. Member appeared as if he had passed the whole of his life in India, and were totally unacquainted with the nature and forms of our Constitution. With the professed object of preventing bribery and corruption generally, the hon. Member proposed a clause that was applicable only to one borough. He would not object to a declaration of that kind, if it were to be made by every Member; perhaps even if the number of the electors in the borough under consideration were less than 200 he might be disposed to adopt it, because the smallness of their number might warrant the presumption of bribery; but it was ridiculous to imagine that bribery could be extended over a body of electors amounting to more than 2,000. The assumption that the electors of the hundred of Basset law would be under the influence of the peers who lived there had no foundation but the hon. Member's own imagination. On the whole he considered the clause so preposterous, that he was persuaded, were the House as full as the hon. Member had wished it to be, that he would find very few supporters.Mr. Nicolson Culvert
 said, if the same electors as before were to retain the franchise, he should be disposed to agree to the clause, but to them was now to be added 2,000 others, and it would be unfair towards these infant electors to stigmatize their birth by branding them with a suspicion of bribery. Moreover he thought it would be wrong to make any distinction between the Members of that House. They ought all to be placed on the same footing, though he did not mean to say that they ought all to make a declaration of that kind. Seeing no reason for selecting the two Members for the Borough of East Retford from among the 658 who composed that House, and seeing no public advantage likely to result from the introduction of the clause, he should certainly oppose the Motion.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had voted for transferring the franchise to Birmingham, but not being able to obtain that, he had been willing to accept the hundred of Bassetlaw, as preferable to uniting the franchise to the old corrupt borough. The borough of Cricklade, which he represented, had had the franchise so extended, and he was persuaded that it was as independent as any borough in the kingdom. With that experience he thought it would be unwise to oppose the Bill.Mr. Robert Gordon
 said, he differed from the hon. Member, and he should, in the next stage, oppose the Bill.—Motion agreed to.Mr. Stewart
 did not know what might be the condition of the county of Somerset, as to the price of Wheat; but in other counties, particularly in Lincoln, he could state that it did not afford a remunerating price. The value of all other articles had fallen considerably below that price.Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to state, that he continued as hostile to the Bill as ever, but he would not then join in opposing it. As the hon. Member, however, wished for delay, with a view to further discussing his clause, his wishes, he thought, ought to be the guide of the hon. Member who had brought in the Bill.Mr. Tennyson
 conceived, that the necessary caution with respect to the use of candles and fire might be attained by introducing them into a chamber apart from the main building. He should wish to see the liberal system pursued by the governors of the Royal Library and the Mazarine Library at Paris, acted upon by the trustees of the British Museum. In those places any gentleman who gave a fair proof of his respectability might take home any work which might be necessary to his studies, with a view to the promotion of science or literature. The hon. Member might perhaps recollect that a celebrated foreigner (Mr. W. Schlegel) came over here to consult some Sanscrit manuscripts, but was obliged to forego his undertaking, because he was not allowed to take them home with him.Mr. Poulett Thomson
 had thought it his duty to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to that case, particularly after the challenge made by the right hon. Gentleman to every Member, to come forward with any objection to any fee in the list that might be considered objectionable. It was right that the subject should be examined; for if such charge were not made he must have been imposed on by those who made the statement to him.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l1345 also thought, that thanks were due to the right hon. Gentleman for what he had done; but he regretted to hear, that in the aggregate the amount, of the fees was to be the same as before. If this were so, they would be an alteration without an improvement. Some of the fees charged were extravagantly high. He would mention, for instance, a case where two persons recently petitioned the House, to be heard by themselves or counsel, against a private bill. The House acceded to their prayer, and
l1345Mr. D. W. Harvey
ex parte1375Habeas Corpus,1374alias habeas,Habeas Corpus1373Habeas Corpus, said, he meant to confine himself to the legal part of the question, and he would first state that he conceived the production of the papers necessary for the vindication of Sir John Malcolm. In the accounts already published, two cases were mentioned, that of Bappo Gunnes and that of Moro Ragonath, concerning which disputes had arisen between the Judges and the Governor. Bappo Gunnes, as he understood the matter, being committed to gaol, applied for a copy of his committal, which was refused. He then applied to the Supreme Court for a ex parte1375Habeas Corpus,1374alias habeas,Habeas Corpus1373Habeas Corpus,Mr. O'Connell
1349 bore testimony to the great distress which existed in the county of Somerset. A great deal of that felt by the agriculturists there was the result of two bad seasons: not only the sheep and
1349Mr. Portman
138213811380Habeas Corpus,13791378Habeas Corpus. 13771376habeas Habeas Corpus said, it surprised him that the hon. and learned Member for Clare should vote for the Motion, when he appeared already so fully informed on the subject. He trusted the House would allow him, from his official situation, to enter into some explanations, and he thought he should be able to show that Sir John Malcolm did not mean to insult the Judges, and that he interfered for the protection of the natives. The hon. Member for Clare said, there were two cases; but the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that Bappo Gunnes was a British subject. The 138213811380Habeas Corpus,13791378Habeas Corpus. 13771376habeas Habeas CorpusMr. George Bankes
1350 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of Bristol, praying for a reduction of Taxation in consequence of the general distress. This petition, the hon. Member stated, had been got up at a public meeting, very numerously and respectably attended. He fully assented to the prayer of the petition, and ascribed the distress complained of, in a great measure, to the alteration in the currency. The country, he contended, felt strong dissatisfaction at the existing state of things, more particularly at the oppressive means resorted to, to collect the taxes, and loudly demanded more extensive retrenchments, and a material reduction in taxation. It was highly desirable, in his
1350Mr. Bright
 agreed with the hon. Member for Newark. If the suggestion of the hon. Member for keeping the reading-room open on Saturday were acted upon, Sunday would be employed in regulating the books and cleaning the rooms.Mr. Bright
 contended that the public had a right to every facility which could be afforded by the Museum. If money were the objection—that is, if the expense of additional officers were the reason for not extending those facilities, why let the public pay on the additional days on which the Museum would be open.Mr. Hume
1353 wished to know why greater facilities were not afforded to the public for viewing the Museum? Why was it open but three days in the week, and even then but for a few hours? He would not go so far as to assert that the great diminution of visitors last year to the British Museum, as compared with those of the preceding, was altogether owing to the want of greater facility of ingress, for he was aware that the satiating of public curiosity must tend to diminish the annual number of visitors; but he would contend, that there must be more than this circumstance to account for so great a falling-off as from 127,000, the number of visiters in 1829, to 68.000, the number of last year. He saw no reason why the Museum should not be open five days in the week instead of three, for the salaries paid to the officers were sufficiently liberal to command a greater portion of their time and services. Even those days on which the Museum was
1353Mr. Hume
 agreed to defer his motion till the 24th inst. hoping that, in the mean time, the right hon. Gentleman would make the motion unnecessary.Mr. Hume
 said, as the constitutional amendments to the Bill had been all lost, it would be better to reject it altogether, and he hoped that all those who had, on any occasion, objected to it, would oppose it on the third reading.Mr. Hume
1396 said, the hon. Member, in admitting that he saw no objection to a general clause of this description, had proved that the one proposed had in it nothing preposterous. The hon. Member could not call that absurd for one borough which he would not object to apply to all boroughs. He should like to see the clause, in the first instance, applied to one borough as an experiment. The hon. Member seemed to think that the influence of peers would not be exerted on the electors of the hundred, but the House was acquainted with too many instances of that interference to adopt the hon.
1396Mr. Hume
 thought it might as well be stopped then as at any subsequent stage, and, in his opinion, the sooner it was strangled the better: he hoped the hon. Member would persist in his opposition.Mr. Hume
13721371 expressed his decided impression that the interference of the Government with the Supreme Court of Judicature in Bombay was uncalled for by any exigency. The facts of the case by no means bore out the allegation of the noble Lord (Ashley) that an excitation bordering on rebellion would have prevailed in that part of India, if the Judges had been allowed to act as they wished. It was plain that the conduct of the
13721371Mr. Hume
 maintained that it was never intended that the Museum library should be employed as a mere reading-room, but as a place of reference. He did not think the time ought to be extended.Mr. Sadler
138513841383 agreed, he said, with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that the House of Commons was not the proper place to try the dispute between the government of Bombay and the Supreme Court, but the Motion before the House had no such object. The House was not called on to declare which of these two parties were wrong, but to decide if it. should not have official cognizance of a letter, written by a great public functionary, which had already appeared in print. He was satisfied that both the public functionaries in India had acted from conscientious motives, and he thought Sir J. P. Grant might reasonably have arrived at the conclusion he had adopted, and have acted as he had done. [The right hon. Gentleman then quoted the passage of the Act, appointing the Judges of the Supreme Court, already quoted by Mr. O'Connell, to show that the judge might conscientiously have formed the opinions on which he had acted.] The same interpretation was put on the Act in 1827 by the Chief Justice of that day, who declared that "the Supreme Court had a jurisdiction over all native and other subjects." He did not
138513841383Mr. W. W. Wynne
 explained, that he still was of opinion that the decision of the Privy Council was extra-judicial, because the native suitors were not heard. He wished for a declaratory act.Mr. Robert Grant
 observed, that his experience induced him to believe that the distress was not so extensive in the districts which were exclusively agricultural, as in those where agriculture and manufactures jointly prevailed. The overwhelming taxation was in truth the real cause of the present sufferings of the people, and a considerable reduction of that heavy burthen he had no doubt would be the only effectual means of administering relief.Mr. Beaumont
1348 rose to corroborate what had fallen from his hon. colleague as to the state of the country generally, and the severe distress which affected the county of Somerset in particular. There was no class exempt from distress; it pressed alike on all. Within the memory no person living, was such distress felt in of the country. The only thing he regretted was, that the petitioners (for whom he had the highest respect) had not waited till after the 15th, when, no doubt, they would have heard of some measure of relief in the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Except in that point, he fully concurred with them, and he hoped that. Ministers would look not merely to the distress which affected agriculture, though that was severe, but also at that which preyed on all other classes, commercial and manufacturing. He agreed in what was said about the fall in the value of landed produce, which, with the exception of wheat, did not afford a remunerating price. He thought that the state of the other articles called for a revision of the laws for the protection of the British grower and unless that were done, he was of opinion that the country would suffer even more severe distress than at present. The landowner was left without any protection in the home-market as to the articles of wool, hemp, tallow, and others, in all of which he was undersold by the foreigner. He was not prepared to propose any remedy for the general distress; that was the business of Ministers, and he looked for that at their hands. He should wish, however, for a revision of the Banking system. A change in that, would give the country great relief. He did not mean that we should give up our present metallic currency, for whatever opinions he might formerly have entertained on the point, he was convinced
1348Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he found it necessary to state, that what he meant as of our Banking system was, that it admitted of improvement, which he inferred from the bankers who had traded in one-pound notes having now given up the business of banking altogether. He was one of those, however, who did not wish again to see a paper circulation. As to the distress, some business might yet be carried on to a considerable extent, but he did not believe any business obtained large profits. It was not for him to propose plans to improve our banking system; he would only say, therefore, that joint-stock banking-companies would fill up the vacuum now felt; and he thought country banking would not be on a safe footing, till the banks of England were established on principles similar to those of Scotland.Sir Thomas Lethbridge
lllsllll1347 was glad that his hon. friend had stated his opinion on this subject, for it was absolutely necessary that Ministers should be fully informed as to the actual state of the country, on which they seemed not to possess any accurate knowledge. He was borne out in this assertion by what had gone forth to the public, as having been said by the noble Duke at the head of the Government. That noble Duke was represented to have stated (hat as a fact, which was no fact at all; namely, that timber, which the noble Duke classed as an agricultural
lllsllll1347Sir C. Burrell
 concurred with the last speaker, in thinking that the House must look to reduction of taxation for relief.Mr. Dickinson
 presented a Petition from Taunton, most numerously and respectably signed, complaining, not as the petition presented by the hon. Baronet (Sir E. Kerrison) below him, of agricultural distress alone, but of the distressed state of the country generally, which pressed, the petition justly stated, on all classes. The petitioners said, that Ministers could not have paid serious attention to the subject, or they could not be so unacquainted, as the petitioners feared they were, with the distressed state of the country. They stated, in proof of the kind of distress which existed in the county of Somerset, that in a parish containing 1,900 inhabitants, 1,000 were depending on the poor-rates for support. He would not dwell upon agricultural distress alone, though he was certain that its extent was greatly underrated, for the value of farms and cattle had fallen fifty per cent below what they were at this time last year. Other interests were also suffering to an equal, and all were suffering to a dreadful extent. It was indeed impossible that one class or one interest could suffer without bringing suffering on the other. Burke had correctly remarked, that those who gave employment to the poor were their bankers, and whatever deprived the opulent of the means of employing the poor, must cause intense distress among the latter. For the existing distress there was one remedy; and though it might not go to the full length of the relief desired, yet it was essential, and, whether by Ministers or the House, it must be done; the people must, be untaxed to a considerable extent. He hoped, therefore, that many days would not elapse before the House was informed that relief to a considerable extent had been afforded.Mr. Dickinson
 considered the present regulation, by which children under a certain age were prohibited from visiting the Museum, highly objectionable. It only opened a door for lying; for parents said, their children were of such and such an age when they were not so much, in order to ensure their admission. He had taken his own children, but had the satisfaction of seeing others younger admitted, while they were refused, merely because he had a regard to truth.Mr. Trant
 feared that he was not yet well understood. The Table of Fees which he had made out were of those charged by officers of the House. He had not offered any comment on the charge to which the hon. Member had alluded, beyond the assertion that it could not have been made by any clerks of the House. There was, the hon. Member must be aware, a great distinction to be made between the fees charged by parliamentary agents, and those demanded by the clerks of the House.The Speaker
 said, from what had fallen from the hon. Member who last addressed the House, he feared that he had not made himself understood when he called the attention of the House to this subject. No doubt, when the Table should be printed, and in the hands of Members, whatever should be found capable of improvement would be open to the suggestions of every hon. Member, and such suggestions would be not only not opposed, but courted. It was not for him, not being acquainted with the particulars of the case to which the hon. Member referred, to make any remarks upon it, but the hon. Member must be aware that it was impossible any such charge should have been made by officers of the House.The Speaker
1344 informed the House, that he had taken some care and pains to arrange and regulate the List of Fees charged in the Private Bill Office, by the clerks of the House, on all matters relating to private business, to which he was anxious to call attention, particularly of those hon. Members who
1344The Speaker
 contended, that no authority could be equal to the official documents from which he spoke. He had not read the official letters in the House, but he had stated the substance of them.Sir G. Cockburn
1351 would take advantage of that opportunity to give the explanation required by the noble Lord a few nights since, respecting the conduct of the Admiral (Sir E. Codrington) commanding the British and allied fleets at Patras, a few days before the battle of Navarino. The noble Lord had asked why an account of that affair
1351Sir G. Cockburn
 regretted that the hon. Baronet (Sir T. Lethbridge) had not stated the specific alteration which he would wish to have in the Banking system. If there was any difficulty felt from the operation of that system, the House had to blame itself for it, by the hasty and inconsiderate measure they had passed respecting the small-note circulation. He would not, however, bring back the state of the currency to what it was before that change took place—that would do more harm than good; but he was prepared to show, that the withdrawal of the small notes from circulation had been productive of much distress. Though he admitted that great distress prevailed, and the price of cattle was low, particularly in the northern counties, owing to the depressed state of the manufacturing towns in Yorkshire and the neighbouring counties; he was not prepared to concur with those who drew such a desponding picture of the state of the country. It was his consolation, to believe that the distress was partial, temporary, and passing. In that part of the country where he dwelt, there was not that want of confidence the hon. Baronet had mentioned between the bankers and their customers, but if there were he did not see how the Government could remedy it, and certainly the hon. Baronet had not proposed any plan for the purpose.Sir M. W. Ridley
 rose to present a Petition from Kingsport, in Norfolk, praying for a reduction of Taxation. Such a concession to the distresses of the people, he maintained, was unavoidable, and he hoped that Ministers would not be the last to perceive the necessity of so far acceding to public opinion, unequivocally manifested as it had been. In urging the necessity of a reduction of taxes, particularly of those which pressed more immediately on the productive industry of the country, he begged to say that he had no wish 1o see Ministers removed from their places. He had no such object in view, having no personal wish for office. Indeed, he was sure that he spoke the sentiments of those with whom he usually acted in that House, when he repeated that he had no desire to see the present Administration changed for any other which could be brought together under existing circumstances. Still he felt it to be incumbent on the House to press the Government, that to reduce our taxation was the only remedy for the distress so generally admitted to oppress the country.Lord Althorp
 expressed his entire concurrence in what fell from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought the House and the country were much indebted to Mr. Speaker for the pains he had taken to elucidate a subject on which there had been so much misconception as to the nature of the charges.Lord Althorp
 said, his statement was derived from what he must consider the very best authority. He understood the gallant Admiral to say, that only one gun was fired, whereas he was given to understand that a considerable firing took place; and that several Turkish sailors were killed. The Turks, he believed, did not fire at our ships. He repeated that he spoke from the very best authority.Lord Althorp
4, in presenting a Petition signed by 400 respectable inhabit-
4Mr. Alderman Thompson
3, in presenting a Petition from the Magistrates and others of Cromarty, engaged in the cure of Herrings, praying for the continuance of the bounty on that branch of industry, stated that the people engaged in this trade, by aid of this bounty had been enabled to carry it on, and that it nourished 48,000 sea-
3Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
l.5 concurred in this representation of the evil. In the absence of a noble Lord (Stanley), he begged to say that it was his intention to bring some measure respecting this subject under the
l.5Mr. Greene
 said, that there was abundant proof of the expense occasioned by Irish vagrants; but he knew no examples of money thus spent in the conveyance of Scotch vagrants. Scotland would be glad to maintain her own vagrants, if she had none others to support, but she was burthened to a great extent with the expense of supporting Irish paupers.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 expressed his satisfaction, that an evil which had long been seriously felt in many parts of the country, had at length attracted the attention of the House, and he hoped that the committee, for which he understood the noble Lord meant to move, might devise some remedy.Mr. Munday
 said, he could inform his hon. friend the Member for Kircudbright, that the expense of passing Scotch paupers was very considerable in the county which he represented.Sir James Graham
 could also inform the House, that where he resided, the expense of passing Scotch and Irish paupers was very great, and he would give his strenuous support to any measure for relieving the country from this enormous expense.Mr. C. Davenport
 observed, that the hon. Gentleman must be mistaken, as Scotland unfortunately possessed no power of sending back the vagrants to their own country. That was the great defect in her law. In one county alone there had been 40,000 Irish paupers. He repeated what he had before said, that Scotland would gladly maintain her own poor if she had no others to support. In reply to his hon. friend, the Member for Cumberland, he would say that he did not assert that there were no Scotch vagrants in England, but only that the number was small.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 said, the hon. and learned Member for Clare was mistaken in the way in which he had spoken of the Irish vagrants. Our great evil was, that as soon as they had been sent back to Ireland they came back again, and out of a large number very few would at any time be found who had not been in this country before. They made a trade of this passing and repassing between the two countries.Mr. Griffith
 said, that the Irish labourers who found their way into Lincolnshire were very useful, and he had generally found them to be very orderly, well behaved men.Sir R. Heron
 thought, that all the schemes for preventing the emigration of the vagrants of one of the three countries into either of the other two would be found useless, so long as the condition of the labouring classes in either of the three was superior to that of the same men in the other. The only mode of preventing the emigration of Irish vagrants here was to raise the condition of the peasantry of that country, and to place them as nearly as possible on a level with the peasantry of England.Mr. Slaney
 stated, that the expense of removing every pauper was as great as if he were sent by the mail, and the expense fell on counties lying betwixt Liverpool and London, which derived little or no benefit from the labour of Irish labourers.Sir Robert Inglis
, after observing that he wished the Judges of Wales to be placed upon the same footing as those of England, and that he for one could not consent to the dividing and mixing up of counties for the sake of making assize districts, presented a Petition from the freeholders of the County of Carmarthen against the Bill for the alteration of the Welsh Judicature. The hon. Member added, that he in a great degree concurred in the prayer of the petition. There might be some improvements in the present system, but he could not agree to its total abolition. Some Gentlemen spoke of the Welsh law as a foreign code; it was, in fact, the old English law differently, and in some respects better, administered.Mr. R. Trevor
 presented a Petition with the same prayer, from between 1,800 and 1,900 freeholders of the County of Pembroke. He concurred heartily in the prayer of the petition.Sir J. Owen
 denied that any mystery had been kept up regarding the Bill, which had originated in the recommendation of a commission, after due inquiry. It had been submitted to Parliament last year, and he had himself seen sixteen or eighteen gentlemen connected with the Principality on the subject, so that there was no pretence for saying that the matter had been kept secret. He, however, concurred in the objection that had been raised respecting the division of counties, and full time, he said should be allowed, to enable the people of Wales to give an opinion upon the whole measure.Mr. Peel
 was ready to enter into this compact, that all due time for consideration should be allowed, provided the hon. Member and his friends would not throw needless impediments in the way, so as to prevent the passing of the Bill in the present Session.Mr. Peel
 presented a similar Petition from the freeholders of the County of Cardigan.Colonel Powell
 added, that he did not mean to impute the slightest partiality to the executive government of Ireland, and he was himself a party to the proclamation from which Judge Jebb had dissented.Mr. Peel
 objected to the production of such documents, unless some ground of suspicion were previously laid: to grant it, would imply a want of impartiality in the executive government of Ireland, and the precedent would be liable to inconvenience and abuse. He heard with considerable regret anything like an insinuation against a member of the Bench of Ireland—Judge Jebb; and he felt bound to state, that were his own life in jeopardy on any charge, he should think he could not intrust it to any Judge more safely than to that distinguished individual.Lord F. L. Gower
 thought it would be dangerous to set a precedent like that now attempted to be established. It appeared that a judge of one of the superior Courts of Ireland differed in opinion from the executive government on the subject of a certain proclamation. Judges were intended to control the executive government when it attempted unduly to interfere with the liberty of the subject. He protested against the production of the memorial.Mr. Peel
 then rose;Mr. Fysche Palmer
 had no objection, on the understanding that he should be allowed to move afterwards.Mr. Fysche Palmer
151413 said, that in bringing forward the Resolution with which he intended to conclude, he meant to convey no imputation whatever upon the great and illustrious men who had served their country, either in the Army or the Navy; all he wished was, to establish a principle, he hoped a correct principle, upon which the half-pay of military officers might in future be regulated. It had been customary to introduce into the Appropriation Act a clause regulating the half-pay and allowances of the military. Early in the reign of the late King, it was made a rule that no officer on half-pay should hold a civil office without giving up his half-pay or retired allowance. This practice was continued from the year 1761 to the year 1820, when it was, for the first time, departed from, and by a new regulation, officers on half-pay were allowed to retain their civil employments, if any they had, and their half-pay at the same time. The Finance Committee recommended a recurrence to the ancient usage, and from that time to this, the regulation he spoke of remained on the old footing. Thus the House would see that the deviation from the ancient practice was to be found in the change of 1820, and the recommendation of the Committee went to a restoration of the old practice. He thought, that when the House came to look at the facts, it would agree with him, that the same regulations ought to apply to full as to half pay, and that neither should be retained by the holder of a civil office. He did not object to a military man holding a civil office; but when he did hold a civil employment he ought not to enjoy a greater benefit than a civilian holding a similar situation. Why should he possess greater benefits than the civil servants of the state? For example, if any person holding a Parliamentary pension obtain a civil employment, the practice up to this time has been, that he
151413Mr. Robert Gordon
 said a few words against the Motion. He was sorry that he could not agree with his hon. friend; for he was not aware of any reason why officers who had passed a long life in the service of their country, should be excluded from accepting office in the civil departments of the country; and he thought, that when they did, it would be very hard to deprive them of their military pay and emoluments. He saw no reason for depriving any class of officers of that half-pay which they had so hardly earned. As he understood the Motion, it would go to deprive some officers of their half-pay, which was quite contrary to the general principles which, he thought, ought to be acted on. He was quite aware of the necessity of encouraging the Ministers to practise that economy which was now required by the country, but he could not consent to urge that economy at the expense of individuals.Sir Francis Burdett
 observed, that there were many situations with small salaries which could not be properly filled except by half-pay officers, and he thought it was hard to deprive them of the power of holding such offices. If the subject were likely to be taken into consideration by his Majesty's Government, he would recommend his hon. friend to withdraw his Motion.Mr. C. Fergusson
, in reply, did not think the right hon. Gentleman had answered his objections; and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last would move either for a Select Committee or a Committee of the whole House, to inquire into the subject. With an understanding that the subject would be taken up by his Majesty's Ministers, or by the right hon. Gentleman, he would consent to withdraw his amendment.Mr. R. Gordon
21 protested against its being understood that his Majesty's Government was pledged to a motion of which no notice had been given, and of which he did not yet know the terms. As an earnest of the intentions of his Majes-
21Mr. Secretary Peel
 informed the House that the principle of the bill formerly introduced into the House had been applied to every person subsequently accepting office, and to all new offices. A deduction had been made from their salaries to form a fund for retiring allowances.Mr. Secretary Peel
 defended the Government. He was sure that it was ready to go fully into any such inquiry as that recommended. It was very seldom that he rose for such a purpose; but he was bound, in justice to the Government to declare, that he believed it was ready to go immediately into the investigation. He thought that the same principle that was applied to persons receiving half-pay ought to be applied universally, and that no person ought to be allowed to hold two offices, and receive two salaries.Mr. Maberly
l.l.l. could not suppose that the House would be so unjust as to require that the Ministers should pledge themselves to a Motion of which no notice had been given, and of which the terms were not known. Did the noble Lord wish to deprive officers of their half-pay? On Monday next his right hon. friend was to bring forward his view of the financial state of the country. The ordinary expenditure of the country was 11,000,000l.l.l.Mr. Secretary Peel
 had no desire to press the Motion if the right hon. Member for Liverpool would undertake the inquiry.Mr. R. Gordon
 believed, that his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not need the suggestion of the hon. Member to attend to the subject he had alluded to. It had engaged the serious and careful consideration of his Majesty's Ministers. As to the Treasury, he could say that it had, to the utmost of its power, carried into execution the recommendation of the Finance Committee, with regard to salaries and superannuations. The noble Lord (Lord Howick) had done his right hon. friend injustice by accusing him of lukewarmness in regard to the bill he had brought into the House the Session before last. He knew that his right hon. friend had made the greatest exertions to get that bill through the House, but he had not been supported, with the exception of the hon. Member for Montrose, even by the Members of the Finance Committee.Mr. Herries
l.l.l.26, pursuant to notice, rose, to move for a Committee to inquire into the nature of the Duties of High Sheriff, and entered into a detail of the various complicated subjects on which a High Sheriff was expected to be conversant, and of the number of Courts in which he was supposed to preside, if he fulfilled in person the duties of his office. Among these he enumerated the presiding in the County Courts, the protection of the public as conservator of the peace, his duties as Collector of the Crown Rents, and as the officer called on to execute all writs issued within the county. All these, and many other judicial and ministerial functions, were performed by a man who was compelled to discharge a large portion of the expenses out of his own pocket, and who was liable to be prosecuted for the failure or misconduct of his officers. Every expense of the Judges of Assize was paid by the Sheriff—the table of their attendants, the coals, the beer, the wine consumed at their place of residence—all was defrayed by the property of the High Sheriff, while he was, at the same time, compelled to bring a vast number of retainers to the court town, at his own entire cost, to be employed as javelin-men, and for other purposes. To so great an extent had this gone, that a law was passed in the 13th and 14th of Charles the Second by which it was enacted, that no Sheriff should be compelled to keep a table at the Assize town for any save the members of his own family, or the judges' servants; that he
l.l.l.26Mr. Fysche Palmer
39"12. That the application of any portion of surplus revenue for the purpose of raising a capital to be applied in the first instance in the home employment, and secondly, in the colonization of the poor, would be more beneficial to the labouring classes of the community, than if the same sum were applied in the reduction of public debt, or in the remission of any class of taxes to the same amount.""11. That, as a pauper, while he continues a pauper, receives necessarily only a bare subsistence, he can neither suffer from taxation, nor be relieved by its remission."10. That, independently of the special advantage to the landed interest, and to the labouring classes, the expenditure involved in such a measure of colonization would not be, in any degree, prejudicial to other classes possessing property in society."9. That there are no means of producing wealth more effective than the combination of an able-bodied population, with uncultivated land of the first degree of fertility."8. That if the vacuum were to be filled up, the policy of a measure of colonization must be governed by a comparison of the increment of the expense of maintaining the new pauper population, with the decrement of the expense of maintaining the removed population, supposing them to have remained at home.38"7. That in the event of home colonization, the ratio of danger as to the filling-up of the
38"6. That to enable parishes to raise money upon mortgage of their poor-rates for a period of years; such capital being specifically applied towards the emigration of voluntary candidates who may prefer independence in the colonies to pauperism at home; would be a measure highly favourable to the landed interest."5. That it is expedient to effect such reparation and abstraction of forced from unforced labour as would accurately measure the extent of the redundancy."4. That if the United Kingdom were relieved from its redundant labourers—that is, those labourers for whose labour no real and natural demand exists in society; the remaining labourers might permanently remain in a state of comparative comfort and independence."3. That if a redundant population were removed by a national effort of colonization, there would be but little danger to be apprehended from what is called 'the filling-up of the vacuum.'"2. That if a pauper population, for whose labour there is no real demand, can be prosperously colonized (with their own consent) at a less expense than would be necessary to be incurred for their maintenance in the mother country, a national outlay for the purpose of such colonization ought to be considered as an economy rather than as an expense."1. That the sums raised and applied for the relief of the poor in England and Wales, though mainly bearing on one particular class of the community—viz. the landed interest—ought to be considered, after the deduction of that portion which would otherwise be paid as wages, as much in the nature of a tax as any of those taxes which are to be found in the balance-sheet of the Revenue and expenditure of the country.3736353433l323130***29† ib.703 ‡ib. 704. § ib. 709.**28*27 then rose to make his promised Motion for a Committee of the whole House to inquire into the State of the Poor in the United Kingdom. The hon. Member commenced by observing, that he preferred moving for a Committee of the whole House rather than a Select Committee, because he
39"12. That the application of any portion of surplus revenue for the purpose of raising a capital to be applied in the first instance in the home employment, and secondly, in the colonization of the poor, would be more beneficial to the labouring classes of the community, than if the same sum were applied in the reduction of public debt, or in the remission of any class of taxes to the same amount.""11. That, as a pauper, while he continues a pauper, receives necessarily only a bare subsistence, he can neither suffer from taxation, nor be relieved by its remission."10. That, independently of the special advantage to the landed interest, and to the labouring classes, the expenditure involved in such a measure of colonization would not be, in any degree, prejudicial to other classes possessing property in society."9. That there are no means of producing wealth more effective than the combination of an able-bodied population, with uncultivated land of the first degree of fertility."8. That if the vacuum were to be filled up, the policy of a measure of colonization must be governed by a comparison of the increment of the expense of maintaining the new pauper population, with the decrement of the expense of maintaining the removed population, supposing them to have remained at home.38"7. That in the event of home colonization, the ratio of danger as to the filling-up of the
38"6. That to enable parishes to raise money upon mortgage of their poor-rates for a period of years; such capital being specifically applied towards the emigration of voluntary candidates who may prefer independence in the colonies to pauperism at home; would be a measure highly favourable to the landed interest."5. That it is expedient to effect such reparation and abstraction of forced from unforced labour as would accurately measure the extent of the redundancy."4. That if the United Kingdom were relieved from its redundant labourers—that is, those labourers for whose labour no real and natural demand exists in society; the remaining labourers might permanently remain in a state of comparative comfort and independence."3. That if a redundant population were removed by a national effort of colonization, there would be but little danger to be apprehended from what is called 'the filling-up of the vacuum.'"2. That if a pauper population, for whose labour there is no real demand, can be prosperously colonized (with their own consent) at a less expense than would be necessary to be incurred for their maintenance in the mother country, a national outlay for the purpose of such colonization ought to be considered as an economy rather than as an expense."1. That the sums raised and applied for the relief of the poor in England and Wales, though mainly bearing on one particular class of the community—viz. the landed interest—ought to be considered, after the deduction of that portion which would otherwise be paid as wages, as much in the nature of a tax as any of those taxes which are to be found in the balance-sheet of the Revenue and expenditure of the country.3736353433l323130***29† ib.703 ‡ib. 704. § ib. 709.**28*27Mr. W. Horton
46s.s.d.s.s.45 willingly acknowledged the services rendered by the right hon. Gentleman in bringing the subject before the country, for there never was a period which mere imperatively called upon the House, as a matter of policy and duty, to consider the question of population in relation to the means of employment. There had now been a period of fifteen years of peace; and instead of having improved the condition of the labouring classes of the community, the peasantry of the southern counties of England had decidedly deteriorated. Mansions had been built, and riches spread throughout the land; the higher classes possessed enjoyments which they had not possessed before, and the middle classes had enjoyments which their forefathers had not; but the working classes, by whose labour they attained their enjoyments, instead of advancing with the progress of civilization, had fallen back. No man who looked to the consequences could contemplate the effects of this continual deterioration without alarm. Was not this a case to call on Government, and upon that House, calmly and sedulously, but firmly and steadily, to look at once at the nature and extent of the evil, and at its probable consequences. The great body of the working classes might be divided into two sets perfectly distinct—he meant the agricultural and manufacturing population; but of the latter it was not his intention to say a single word. With reference to the peasantry, they might be divided likewise into two classes, perfectly and clearly distinct from each other. An hon. Member had spoken of the redundancy of the population, which certainly might exist in the south of England, but it could not be said to exist in the northern counties. The greatest distinction existed between the southern and northern parts of the kingdom, as much, indeed, as between the people of any two distinct kingdoms; and it was for the House to trace the causes of the difference. In twenty counties of the north the poor were well off, with plenty of work and good pay for their labour, and the parish rates were lower than in the South; whilst in the South there was an immense body of the poor depressed and degraded, as compared with their brethren of the north. The
46s.s.d.s.s.45Mr. Slaney
49ll48revocare gradum, said, if the right hon. Mover had not yet made much way in his project, he had at least succeeded to the extent of persuading the House that the subject was worth consideration. Nevertheless, he could not yet encourage him with the expectation of a beneficial or speedy result. He wished, on that occasion, particularly to avoid inquiring how far the alterations in the currency might have occasioned the redundant population; and he should, therefore, only say, generally, that on this point he was inclined to agree with his right hon. friend. As to filling the vacuum to be occasioned by emigration, it seemed to him that nothing was more easy than to prevent a rapid increase, when once the numbers were thinned. In the same way, it was easy at any time to stimulate population, but not so easy to 49ll48revocare gradum,Sir F. Burdett
52 had always been of opinion, from the time he was a member of the Committee, that relief might be given by emigration, and it was the interest of parishes in the southern parts of the kingdom, which were suffering so severely from the pressure of the poor-rates, to contribute to this desirable end. With respect to the fact of the redundancy of our population, he wondered how any Gentleman could entertain a doubt upon it. Experience had proved that the theory of Mr. Malthus was correct. Those who in this country were in a state of abject pauperism, in the colonies would be in a condition of comparative comfort. Only two remedies worth consideration had been suggested:—the one was Emigration, and the other was an alteration of the Poor-laws, reverting to what had been properly called a sound interpretation of that system of enactments. An union of these remedies might perhaps be effected. Let relief be refused to the able-bodied, but there must be at the same time the means of conveying them to the colonies. This arrangement would remove all the dangers apprehended from a transition from the present system of parish relief to that of refusing relief to the able-bodied. If the poor-rates were applied only to relieve the aged and infirm, and an opportunity were afforded to the young and able-bodied to proceed to the colonies, much might be accomplished for the benefit of this kingdom. He thought, therefore, that the members of the legislature ought to make up their minds whether they would or would not try the experiment of revising the poor-laws, instead of having every year a debate upon the subject, which debate always ended in nothing. He, for one, was ready to make the experiment; but he should make it with greater confidence if, at the same
52Mr. Baring
 observed, that the great principle of the old system was to find employment for the able-bodied labourer.Mr. Slaney
l.53 rose to reply. He said it was the duty of the House to assert distinctly whether or not it were prepared to relieve the country from the effects of that redundant population now pressing upon its resources. It was indisputable that the population of Ireland, as compared with the demand for labour, was prodigiously redundant, and he saw no means of relief from that redundancy that could be at all considered effectual except those which he had recommended, and which he should feel it his duty to continue to recommend, notwithstanding the apathy with which they appeared to be received. It was in vain to talk of the Colonial Secretary affording facilities for emigration—
l.53Mr. W. Horton
l.62l.,Cour de CassationTribunaux de Première Instancel.l.,l.l.,61l.l.Tribunaux de Commerce,Tribunaux de Premiere Instance.Juges de Paix,Cassation,Cours Royales,Cassation.Procureurs, Avocats, Greffiers,Cour RoyaleGreffier,Avocats Generaux,Procureur General,Conseillers;Cour de Cassation,Cours RoyalesCours Royales,Tribunaux de Premiére InstanceJuge d' InstructionTribunaux de Premiére Instance,605958l.l.,57mesne processdies nonnisi priusin Banco56nisi priusNisi Prius,in Banco,5554, after adverting to the lateness of the hour, said, he intended as shortly as possible to call the attention of the House to a Motion of his which stood on the paper, the object of which was, to introduce a Bill for the better Administration of Justice in Wales, and which must be accompanied by some further measure, such as that House might deem necessary, in respect of the procedure of the English Courts of Common Law. He also intended to propose some additional regulations in the English Courts, which would certainly not be required by anything necessary to the Welsh Judicature; but which, he conceived, would in itself be found highly expedient and advantageous. Alterations of that nature had been alluded to in the Speech from the Throne; and the present, he had to inform the House, was one of the measures in contem-
l.62l.,Cour de CassationTribunaux de Première Instancel.l.,l.l.,61l.l.Tribunaux de Commerce,Tribunaux de Premiere Instance.Juges de Paix,Cassation,Cours Royales,Cassation.Procureurs, Avocats, Greffiers,Cour RoyaleGreffier,Avocats Generaux,Procureur General,Conseillers;Cour de Cassation,Cours RoyalesCours Royales,Tribunaux de Premiére InstanceJuge d' InstructionTribunaux de Premiére Instance,605958l.l.,57mesne processdies nonnisi priusin Banco56nisi priusNisi Prius,in Banco,5554The Attorney General
, in reply to the hon. and learned Member for Clare, stated that it was a part of the measure in question, so to apportion the business as to provide that the Court of Exchequer should for the future do a fair and reasonable share of the work of the country. It sounded well to propose that they should bring justice to every man's door, but in practical operation it might not be so convenient. The local magistracy would become mixed up with the interests of families, and it was hardly possible to avoid partiality when the same gentlemen were sent again and again to administer justice amidst the same local associations.The Solicitor General
65 protested against the measure from a conviction that, by the abolition of local judicature, the costs of law would be more than doubled to the inhabitants of Wales. He was confident that Government would not so far disregard the feelings of the people as to suffer this Bill to
65Sir J. Owen
67 said, he regretted that the Bill did not provide some remedy for the inequality of business in the dif-
67Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
68 said, that the proposition of his hon. and learned friend had not. been fairly treated. He had proposed to introduce a measure to alter the jurisdiction of the Welsh Courts, and it might have been supposed, as the House had previously been engaged in discussing the twelve propositions of his right hon. friend, that it would, at that late hour, have thought the discussion of one topic at a time enough. The hon. Member for Clare, however, was disappointed that the Bill did not reform the whole practice of all our courts, and he had indulged in many remarks on that subject. He had himself, as a preliminary measure to such a reform, slated his intention to introduce a bill for pulling an end to patent offices, and till that, and the question concerning fees were disposed of, the reform of the courts could not be proceeded with. Measures Were in contemplation, also, for an equal distribution of business among the courts, and he did not expect that subject would have been brought under the notice of the House, when it was only called on to discuss the question of the Welsh
68Mr. Secretary Peel
 disavowed having made any disrespectful allusion to Mr. Bentham or his writings, and he could not help thinking that a very insidious application had been made of any expressions he might have uttered. He entertained a high respect for Mr. Bentham, whom he had not the honour to know personally, although he was acquainted with those who were on intimate terms with that gentleman. It did not follow, however, that the respect which he felt for the writer was to extend to an adoption of his opinions. He did speak of a sect, but he had cast no reflections upon its members.The Attorney General
69 professed himself disposed to give all the time for delay which could be conceded consistently with his intention to have it passed through both Houses of Parliament before the expiration of the Session. He wished it to be understood that it was no part of his plan to touch the Palatine Courts of Durham, Chester, and Lancaster. As to what had been said of France, he had compared, not the amount of population in the two kingdoms, but the extent of business done by the judges. He had stated that the twelve judges of England decided as
69The Attorney General
 explained, that he was quite averse from returning to the old system.Mr. A. Baring
 wished only to state, that he had presented a petition from the county he represented against the change, and in the sentiments of that petition he fully concurred.Mr. Rice Trevor
 supported the Motion, and said, that he heard nothing to invalidate his hon. friend's statements. The gallant officer had shown, that half-pay officers were harshly treated; but he had not given any reason why officers on whole pay should be suffered to have the emoluments both of civil and military employments. In his opinion, the pay of an officer ought to abate when he took a civil office.Mr. C. Wood
 did not intend, in the most remote degree, to charge the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland with partiality: any man who did so would be guilty of a high crime, inasmuch as he would do gross injustice to that noble personage. The parties accused felt their lives at stake, as a judge who had expressed such a hostile opinion was about to try them. He thought that the better mode would be for the parties interested to present a petition.Mr. O'Connell
 withdrew his Motion.Mr. O'Connell
, after referring to a charge given to the Grand Jury by one of the Irish Judges, which was in opposition to the tenor of a Proclamation issued by the Government, moved "that there be laid before the House a Memorial addressed to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, on the subject of certain prosecutions for murder to be tried at the next Assizes for the county of Fermanagh."Mr. O'Connell
 denied, that the poor of Ireland were any worse off than those of England. At least, they were not subject to the tyranny of parish overseers and select vestries.Mr. O'Connell
6 thought, that if Irish vagrants were to be driven from this country, their deportation should be provided for at the expense, not of the country to which they were going, but of that in which they had spent their life, and enriched by their labour. It would be cruel on those men, after having spent their youth in the service of England, to send them back in their old age to starve in Ireland, or be a burthen on a land they had voluntarily quitted. There was an-
6Mr. O'Connell
l.Cour Royale.64l.,l.l.63 said, he was quite willing to give the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) credit for his intention to ameliorate our law, but he disclaimed having heard a
l.Cour Royale.64l.,l.l.63Mr. O'Connell
 explained, that he had not desired that local tribunals should be composed of persons selected from their respective neighbourhoods.Mr. O'Connell
47 denied that there was an overpopulation in the country; and he thought it would require great abilities to show that a country, capable of producing subsistence for all its inhabitants, and even capable of producing double what it now produced (were agriculture but improved), could be overpeopled by its present population. The chain which had connected capital and labour had been dissolved; but no person had a right to arraign the wisdom of Providence, until he had found out that he could entirely exculpate the folly of man. Providence
47Mr. E. Davenport
l. said, that he did not think the case of the Irish vagrants was quite what the hon. and learned Member for Clare represented it. They did not benefit the country one-half so much by their labour as they injured it by the excessive competition they introduced, and the paupers their system of working created. He could assert, that they were a real grievance to the central counties. Staffordshire alone had paid 2,000l.Mr. Littleton
11, in presenting a Petition from the Proprietors of various Iron Mines in the Coun-
11Mr. Littleton
 said, the petitioners were suffering much; that no one engaged in the Iron Trade in England, Wales, or Scotland, was free from very severe privations.Mr. Littleton
41l40minimummaximum, in seconding the Motion of his right honourable friend, said, that he considered some plan of this kind of the utmost importance to the labouring classes of the country. He was convinced that the redundancy of the labouring population was the great cause of their distress. That fact was shown in the state of the county of Dorset. In the short time he was in that county during the Easter recess, no less than 370 persons applied to him to procure them the means of going out with their families to the Swan River, for they were all without the means of procuring a passage. The right hon. Gentleman had made four divisions of the poorer classes of this country. He thought he could make two divisions that would be as nearly accurate as those of the right hon. Gentleman. He should, he said, divide them into poor and paupers. Of the whole of this country the portion north of Warwick, or, perhaps, north of the Thames, might be stated to be that in which the majority of the people were poor; while in that portion of the kingdom south of Warwick, or south of the Thames, the majority of the people were paupers. These latter might he sub-divided also into two classes; those who were paupers in consequence of age or infirmity, and those who were reduced to that situation from the want of sufficient wages to maintain their families. Those who were reduced to pauperism by age or infirmity were supported by poor-laws, and with respect to them no alteration was required; but for those who sunk into pauperism either from the want of work, or from want of sufficient wages, it was necessary that something should be done. The House ought not to interfere with the wages of labour. Mr. Burke had truly said, that to attempt to establish a 41l40minimummaximumMr. Portman
 said, he would give the Motion his warmest support. He expressed a hope that on the eve of a Motion by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Horton) for taking into consideration the causes of the present extent of suffering among the poorer classes, the House would not allow this last proposition, for a just and wise reduction of the Estimates, to be frittered away like the former ones. He agreed most fully with the hon. Member, that the Volunteers should perform voluntary service; and that in times like the present, unless they could be supported without such an enormous expense, the country would be better without their services. He would therefore implore hon. Members to consider the necessity for economy; and he was confident there was not a man in the House, meaning honestly and sincerely to relieve the burthens of the people, who could refuse his vote to the Amendment now proposed.Mr. Portman
 concurred with the hon. Member for Wiltshire, and said, he was sure that the evil must speedily be remedied some way or other.Mr. Protheroe
 said, that injustice was often committed towards Ireland in removing thither the female vagrants with whom the men had formed connections in this country. With regard to Scotland, he could show that invitations were often sent over to Ireland for labourers to go to Scotland, where they were wanted to underwork the active labourers of the soil, and they were then sent back in a very miserable condition, after they had served the purposes of those who had called them over.Mr. George Dawson
8 contended, in opposition to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Liverpool, that that town derived the highest benefit from its contiguity to Ireland, instead of sustaining any injury, and that the Irish labourers paid in the sweat of their brows for whatever they obtained in this country. Very few cases could, he believed, be found, of an Irishman being a willing pauper. He
8Mr. G. Dawson
 had no doubt but it would prove highly advantageous to that part of the country to which he personally belonged. He wished to thank the hon. and learned Member for the bill.Mr. Wilbraham
l.l.l.l.l.l.17l.l.l.l.16d.d.s.s.d.s. admitted the perfect fairness of the statement made by the hon. Member who had just sat down. Nothing could be fairer or more courteous than his observations, and he congratulated the gentlemen on half-pay on their possessing so able an advocate. With respect, in the first place, to the alterations made in the year 1820, and the change by the Finance Committee, he at the time, as now, pronounced that change to be exceedingly ill-judged. It was neither economical nor politic. There were many places of small emolument, which ought, nevertheless, to be filled by respectable persons; by persons who offered a long life of integrity, and possessed a commission as a guarantee to their employers; but such men, he believed, could no where be found, unless among officers on half-pay, and they would not accept such offices unless they were allowed to retain their half-pay. As an illustration of the effect which the refusal to allow half-pay to be retained by officers accepting other appointments, he would instance the case of a captain appointed to the situation of barrack-master. The pay of a barrack-master was 7l.l.l.l.l.l.17l.l.l.l.16d.d.s.s.d.s.Sir Henry Hardinge
 said, he hoped the hon. Member would allow the Report of the Committee of Supply to be brought up.Sir Henry Hardinge
 did not mean again to trouble the House with any observations on this subject after the very protracted discussion, of more than two hours, which it had undergone on a former occasion. The Estimates, he repeated, were framed on as low a scale as they could be; and he put it to the courtesy of the hon. Member whether he would thus continue an opposition which so many majorities had already decided to be ill-founded.Sir H. Hardinge
l.23 understood the hon. Member to accuse the Government of gross partiality, in continuing the allowances of general officers while subalterns were obliged to give up their half-pay on accepting office. But the House would remember that in 1815 it was recommended that the number of general officers should be diminished; and from 378, their number then, they had been gradually reduced to 120, by which a saving had
l.23Sir H. Hardinge
 begged the House to recollect that the office of High Sheriff was an ancient one, of very great importance, and always filled by gentlemen of rank, character, and fortune. In his opinion, if the House were to make those alterations and reformations which the hon. Member seemed to aim at in his speech, the result would be, that the office must fall into the hands of men in a lower and humbler rank of society than those who had hitherto filled it with so much advantage to the country. The Motion of the hon. Member seemed to go to the reformation of points so extremely frivolous, that it would be worse than idle to give it the support of the House.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 declared that the Irish vagrants were a grievous tax upon the people of Liverpool. One-half, or nearly two-thirds of the taxes raised in that town for the poor, were directly or indirectly consumed on account of the Irish vagrants. He thought an act ought to be passed declaring that every person who brought over an Irishman here, and did not give security that he should not become a burthen to any parish, should be liable either to pay a penalty, or to have him sent back to Ireland. He was quite sure that England would gladly take back all her paupers, from both Ireland and Scotland, if those two countries would undertake to receive their own from this country. He hoped the noble Lord would lose no time in bringing forward his promised measure.General Gascoyne
42 could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman as to many of the
42Mr. Benett
 argued that the evil arose out of a difference of laws relating to the poor prevailing in England and Ireland. The sure remedy was, to establish the same Poor-laws in both. The existing tithe-system in Ireland prevented the outlay of capital upon the land there, and the extension of cultivation. If some equitable means could be found out for commuting the tithes there, it would give, he believed, a great stimulus to the demand for labour in the country, and both keep the peasantry at home, and improve their condition.Mr. Benett
 reiterated his objection to the alteration of the system, excepting as far as regarded placing the Welsh Judges upon the same footing as those of England.Mr. Jones
 consented to these terms, and laid upon the Table two other Petitions, with the same prayer as that he before presented, one from the Burgesses and Commonalty of Carmarthen, and the other from Kidwelly.Mr. Jones
9 presented a similar Petition from the Sheriff, Magistrates, &c. of the Borough of Carmarthen. The hon. Member trusted that no attempt would
9Mr. Jones
66 defended the character of the Welsh judges, and observed, that several of the most distinguished ornaments of the judicial bench had previously filled the office of Welsh judge. Whether England would be content with having three additional judges when those at present existing were not all employed, he did not pretend to say, but it was certainly hard that the interests of Wales should be made the ladder by which ambitious barristers were to climb to such preferment as three additional seats on the bench must necessarily induce. It was admitted on all hands that the Welsh were attached to their present institutions; and he could not bring forward a better proof of their feelings, than the fact that the inhabitants
66Mr. Jones
d.d.d.s.s. supported the plan of giving each pauper a small portion of land. He had done so three years ago, to a certain extent, in the eastern division of Sussex, and the result had been most satisfactory. He had allotted to a number of poor persons rather more than one acre each, and not only were they kept from demanding parish assistance, but, beyond his utmost expectations, the result had been most beneficial to himself. A Quaker gentleman, of the name of Allen, who also had property there, adopted the same plan; and he could assure the House that every one of those individuals who took these small portions of land paid their rent regularly; and they procured by their labour on the soil from 3d.d.d.s.s.Mr. J. Smith
 said, that he disapproved of charging emigrants any thing for land. The county ought rather to be at some expense to remove the paupers, than to throw impediments in the way, by seizing on the land, and not allowing it to be occupied unless its fees and exactions were paid.Mr. Hume
 took the opportunity of ob-serving, that the quarantine establishments were at present expensive; and to express his hope that, if any vacancies occurred in them, or in any other offices of the State, that they would not be filled up.Mr. Hume
l.24 expressed his surprise that this vote should be continued. If we were
l.24Mr. Hume
 suggested, that it would be wise in the House to withhold the grant till after the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made his financial statement.Mr. Hume
 regretted that he had misunderstood the hon. and learned Gentleman, and was happy to hear him disclaiming any disrespectful intention.Mr. Hume
70 animadverted on some observations that had fallen from the Attorney General, conveying, as he conceived, a sneer of ridicule, directed against Mr. Bentham and the doctrines advocated by that writer and his followers. Instead of sarcastically reviling such a man as Mr. Bentham, he thought it would be well for the Attorney General if he would cultivate
70Mr. Hume
 denied that in Ireland there was a redundant population, if the waste land were brought into a proper state of tillage; and he maintained that England had no right to complain of what was termed the Irish invasion, because the absentee nobility and gentry spent in this country much more than the Irish peasantry took away.Colonel O'Grady
4443 thought it would be extremely unadvisable to go into a committee, which would only occupy time without the least expectation of coming to any practical result. He had still higher ground on which to object to a committee. It would be an abuse to the country to appoint a committee to take into consideration the state of the labouring poor, unless the House felt confident that that committee would be able to devise something which would administer to the suffering classes extensive relief. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that there had been a great redundance of the labouring poor, but he could not bring himself to believe that that redundance
4443Mr. Courtenay
, in explanation, stated, that the Denbigh meeting was not unanimous, and that the measure was opposed by the inhabitants in consequence of their expectation that their interests would be injured should the assizes be occasionally removed.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 was of opinion, that the annihilation of the local judicature would confer an important benefit on the Principality; and he was led to form this conclusion after an attentive consideration of the subject, confirmed by his own individual experience of the practice in these courts themselves. There was, to a certain degree, disadvantage in every change, but here the good counterbalanced the evil. He hoped, however, that the Bill would not be allowed to go into a committee before the assizes, in order to give time for examination of its merits.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 contended, that select vestries, which in London were considered such evils, in the country produced great advantage. They exercised no tyranny over the poor, but promoted their happiness.Sir C. Burrell
 stated, that he fully concurred in what had fallen from the noble Lord, and agreed with him that some remedy ought to be applied to this evil. The necessity of passing vagrants caused an enormous expense to parishes.Mr. Cartwright
20 was disposed generally to concur in the views of the noble Lord; but considering all the circumstances of the case, he should feel more satisfaction if the Motion were not pressed to a division. He thought that the time was come when the whole system of superannuations, allowances, pensions, and half-pay must, from the circumstances of the country, become a subject of investigation. The House ought to go into such an inquiry, not with reference solely to half-pay or full pay, but with reference to every kind of salary, pension, and allowance. It would be wise and good policy to do so, and the Government ought to be encouraged to take the arduous task into its own hands. He admitted that the recompense of the half-pay was well earned, but the House must look at the difficulties under which the country was placed. If, according to the statement of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of seventeen millions expended annually only eleven millions were applied to the efficient and active service of the country, while six millions were paid for superannuation allowances, pensions, and half-pay, and if this sum had been increasing since 1822, it was time to consider if the whole establishment could not be gradually diminished, instead of taking any partial view. He had listened with attention to his right hon. friend, the Secretary of War, but had not clearly understood that there was any other difference between continuing the full pay
20Mr. Huskisson
 remembered the application made by the hon. Member at the Board of Trade, and he also remembered telling him, and those by whom he was accompanied, that the hardware trade of this country would be most materially improved and benefitted by the introduction into this country of the lighter productions of other countries; and he had no doubt that that effect would be produced were the cause allowed to come into Full operation. He was formerly of opinion that allowing the raw material to be brought into this country, would be a benefit; our manufacturers would be able to make their articles cheaper, and foreigners have something to exchange for them. He was glad to find that the people were beginning to be sensible of the advantages of the liberal policy he had recommended; and had that not been followed, he believed that our present difficulties would have been much greater. He would not then enter further into the subject, but he could not permit that opportunity to pass of acknowledging the honourable and candid manner in which the gentlemen who attended on that occasion, and formerly opposed him, now admitted that the measures then in progress for removing the restriction on foreign trade have turned out for the good of the country; and that the originators of those measures intended them to be productive of good.Mr. Huskisson
 wished the hon. Member to understand that he had not pledged himself to move for any Committee, but only that he might possibly call the attention of the House to the subject, if no Member more competent to the task than himself should take it up. He thought the whole subject required revision, but he was of opinion that some better opportunity should be found than on that occasion, to go into the matter.Mr. Huskisson
 would only pledge himself to turn his attention to the subject in the course of the Session.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the borough of Glamorgan was in favour of the Bill before the House.Sir C. Cole
 bore his testimony to the severe sufferings of the petitioners, and at the same time said, they had, in the midst of all their sufferings, displayed invariable loyalty and good conduct. He was happy, however, to say, that there had of late been a gradual improvement in the trade of that part of the country.Sir Christopher Cole
 said, he saw no reason why Wales should have a separate judicial system any more than Yorkshire. He was glad that the Ministers had taken the matter in hand, and he hoped that they would successfully carry it through.Sir Christopher Cole
5150 said, he should only offer a few observations, in consequence chiefly of what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, to whom he had listened now, as always, with great satisfaction. He concurred entirely with what his right hon. friend (Mr. W. Horton) had said on the subject of emigration to the colonies: that opinion was not new to him, for he had entertained it when he was in the Canadas, and he had stated it in a paper he then drew up, on a means of forming a better defence for those provinces. He thought now, as he had thought then, that the only certain and permanent means of providing for the defence of the Canadas was by directing to them a stream of population from the mother country, attached to her interests, and resolved to maintain her possessions. The difficulty of holding out Much, encouragement on the subject of
5150Sir G. Murray
 said, he had given directions to diminish the fees as much as possible. It was his wish to diminish the impediments to emigration.Sir George Murray
 thought the right hon. Gentleman drew a hasty conclusion when h inferred, because these petitioners were not suffering, that his measures must have been beneficial to the whole country.Mr. Robinson
 also asserted, that the expense of passing Scotch vagrants was very considerable, and which fell very heavy in some of the northern counties. Where he resided it was very severely felt, and would, he was afraid, continue as long as the practice was continued of banishing men from Scotland. Whether that were a punishment or not to the individuals he would not say, but it was a severe infliction for the northern parts of England which had to pay for the passing and repassing of these banished Scotchmen.Sir M. W. Ridley
, in presenting Petitions from several Hundreds in Suffolk, praying for the remission of the Duties on Malt and Beer, stated that the petitioner, in common with all the agriculturists, were suffering under vast distress, which they said was much enhanced by the Duties on Malt and Beer pressing particularly on them, by preventing the consumption of Barley. He earnestly prayed, that the Government would give ear to the petitioners, and give relief to the Agricultural Interest, by repealing these and other burthens.Sir William Rowley
l.l.l. presented a Petition from the Grand Jury of the County of Northampton, complaining of the sums of money paid for passing Irish and Scotch Vagrants. It was difficult, his Lordship said, to credit the expense to which parishes were subject on this account. A single parish, in 1825, paid 797l.l.l.Lord Althorp
19 felt all the inconvenience of Ministers beng placed in a situation of refusing to make allowances and grant superannuations to gentlemen; he felt, however, that the House was placed in a critical situation; and while he regretted the difficulty in which Government was placed, he must insist that it was the duty of the House to press economy on the Government. It was painful, perhaps, for Members to enforce economy when it affected individuals, but there was a necessity for them, being trustees for the public, not to allow their feelings to get the better of their duty to the public.
19Lord Althorp
 thought a Committee of the whole House—not for the purpose of examining witnesses, for that would be absurd, but for the purposes of discussion—might be attended with very beneficial effects. He thought also that no new measure ought to be introduced affecting the state of the people, or applying to the administration of the poor-laws which would not have the effect of making those who contracted imprudent marriages, at an early period of life, find themselves in a worse situation than if they had exercised a greater degree of foresight and discretion.Lord Althorp
 hoped the right hon. Gentleman would do so, as no person could accomplish the matter so well.Lord Howick
22 hoped his hon. friend would not withdraw his Motion, unless he received a distinct pledge from the Government that it would go into a general inquiry. He regretted that the hon. Member for Westminster, and the hon. Member for Kircudbright should encourage the Government in its extravagance. The Government was ready enough to attend to recommendations similar to those. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought in the bill alluded to, he had not marshalled all his forces to pass it; and he had withdrawn it after a very feeble opposition from the hon. Gentleman, who was then on the Opposition side of the House, and was now Paymaster of the Army. Since then, the right hon. Gentleman had done nothing on the subject. He had allowed a whole Session to pass away, and had made no effort to get over his defeat. He hoped that his hon. friend
22Lord Howick
 only rose to guard himself against its being supposed that he wished to touch the half-pay of officers, or to deprive any person of the emoluments he then possessed; but he wanted a pledge that there should be no increase.Lord Howick
d.d. were presented on this subject by Mr. Burrel, by Mr. Arkwright, and also by Mr. Denison, who observed that the petition he had to present from the inhabitants of Croydon, Surrey, was, though short, full of serious circumstances. The petitioners slated that they could no longer bear to witness the distressed and even starving condition of the destitute labourers, many of whom were out of employment, and must actually die of want, if they were not relieved. They stated that the taxes on beer, malt, and on hops, might be considered as poll-taxes, falling the heaviest on the poor labourers, who were obliged to consume those articles to support their strength, though at present they could get neither this nor any thing else. The want of those necessaries of life was shortening the existence of thousands of labourers. If these taxes were remitted, beer would be reduced from 5d.d.Several Petitions
 said, that as far as he was aware, there was every disposition to lay all the evidence obtained by the Government before the House. The occasion on which this evidence was given was peculiar, and perhaps for that reason it might be produced; but in general cases he thought it would be inconvenient to say that communications thus made to the Privy Council were not privileged. He thought that when the papers were produced it would be seen that the Board of Trade had done what was most conducive to the end in view. On looking into the papers he found them divided into four. The first consisted of the evidence of Mr. Baring; the second was a statement of information privately communicated to him; and the third was a memorandum of a conversation between him and the Governor and Deputy-Governor of the Bank of England, which, from the very first passage in it, was clearly of a confidential nature. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would readily agree to lay on the Table all the papers that could properly be the means of affording information to the House.Mr. Herries
75 thought the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman satisfactory:
75Mr. S. Rice
 said, that there were not any means of obtaining accurate information upon that subject.Mr. Herries
76 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the Act of the 4th of George 1st as limits the franchise of this corporation to Protestants only. The hon. Member observed, that it was not his intention to go into any argument on the subject at present, particularly in the absence of those hon. Gentlemen who took a part in the discussion when he presented the Petition. Other opportunities would occur for going more fully into it, should it be necessary. He would confine himself, therefore, at present, to merely stating the grounds on which he asked for leave to bring it in. The Protestant merchants and traders could, by the Act of Geo. 1st. claim their freedom as a matter of right, after a residence in the town, but the claim was confined to them exclusively. The privileges of the corporation were limited to Protestants. It seemed
76Mr. S. Rice
108107106105104, on the Motion being put, rose and claimed the indulgence of the House while he stated a few objections to the Motion of his noble friend, and a few reasons why the House should not comply with the Motion. He would not pretend to determine the decision of the House, knowing, as he did, that several of his right hon. friends were ready and better able than he was to answer the noble Lord; he would only enforce some points the noble Lord had slurred over, and explain the incorrect view he had taken of others. The noble Lord had already made as serious an attack as he could make if he had all the papers he moved for, and they corresponded entirely to his supposed view of their contents. Though the noble Lord's speech was nominally for the production
108107106105104Mr. Herries
114Nec victoris heri tétigit captiva cubile!Nec victoris heri tétigit captiva cubile!113112111110109 rose and said, he could not allow the Question to go to a division, although reluctant to detain the House, without stating his reasons for supporting the Motion of the noble Lord, when the Speech from the Throne stated, "that the numerous embarrassments arising from the interruption of our diplomatic relations with Portugal increased his Majesty's desire to effect the termination of the evil;" and when they were told that the recognition of Don Miguel was not far distant, he thought there was no to so proper for the production of the papers connected with the negotiations as the present, in order that the House might be able to judge of the propriety of the course of conduct pursued by his Majesty's Ministers. If the papers were not to be produced now, he did not know when they would be. It was now more than two years since the usurpation took place. It was more than one since a motion of a right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Mackintosh) obtained a portion of the papers connected with the negotiations which ensued; although it was now contended that to produce any part of the correspondence would be premature and unjust. Premature information was given twelve months ago, but further information was withheld now, because it was not mature enough for production. This was the argument of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman, feeling himself unable to answer the noble Lord, had shown a discretion much to be commended, by passing over in silence all the most important topics of his speech. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, however, that the Government of this country, as a government, did not give the Constitution to Portugal. But it interfered, as it were individually, and the ambassador of this country, Lord
114Nec victoris heri tétigit captiva cubile!Nec victoris heri tétigit captiva cubile!113112111110109Lord John Russell
 said, that his noble relation had shown the correspondence to which the noble Lord referred to the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government, who had expressed it as his opinion, that that correspondence was not calculated to compromise his Majesty's Government.Colonel Beresford
And hang a calfskin on those recreant limbs?——Doff the lion's hide125Monstrum nulla virtute redemptumMonstrum nulla virtute redemptum124But will suspect't was he that made the slaughter?And sees, fast by, a butcher with an axe,Who finds the heifer dead, and bleeding fresh,123Sum maxume, at tu indignus qui faceres tamen.Sum maxume, at tu indignus qui faceres tamen.nam si ego dignus hâc—nam si ego dignus hâc122121, after complimenting the noble Viscount upon the eloquent and argumentative manner in which he had introduced this Motion to the House, proceeded to say that he felt that this was a subject in which the character of this country was at stake, and for that reason he wished, as an Englishman deeply concerned for the national honour of his country, to declare his opinions upon the question. As yet, indeed, no answer had been given, nor even an attempt at answer had been made to the able speech with which the question had been introduced. It was not, therefore, necessary to offer any of his sentiments to the House, nor did he mean to do so with any view to make that clearer which was already as clear as the noon-day, but only to make known his own opinions. The national character of this country, he knew from experience, was at present at a very low estimate amongst the people on the continent of Europe, and that was entirely attributable to the foreign policy which had been latterly pursued by our Government. The Motion of the noble Lord, if acceded to, was calculated in some degree to raise our
And hang a calfskin on those recreant limbs?——Doff the lion's hide125Monstrum nulla virtute redemptumMonstrum nulla virtute redemptum124But will suspect't was he that made the slaughter?And sees, fast by, a butcher with an axe,Who finds the heifer dead, and bleeding fresh,123Sum maxume, at tu indignus qui faceres tamen.Sum maxume, at tu indignus qui faceres tamen.nam si ego dignus hâc—nam si ego dignus hâc122121Sir F. Burdett
129128127dies non. said, that in rising upon this occasion, he felt it necessary to ask for more than the usual indulgent consideration of the House. He could not but regret that it had been deemed advisable by the noble Lord, no doubt for good reasons, though he could not divine their nature, to submit a motion of this important description to the House, upon a day which was usually devoted to relaxation, and upon which there was a distinct arrangement and understanding among men of all parties that no public business whatever of any consequence should ever be brought forward. His own time had been so much and so incessantly occupied, in consequence of the lateness of the debates during the last two days, that he really conceived he had some claim upon the noble Lord's forbearance, and that he had some right to expect that such a motion as this should not have been brought forward upon this day, which was a sort of parliamentary 129128127dies non.Mr. Secretary Peel
 intimated that he had not said so.Sir F. Burdett
cheers141140139138137136135134133132131130 understood the noble Lord and the hon. Baronet to have both said, that the circumstances under which the Charter had been carried to Portugal ex-
cheers141140139138137136135134133132131130Mr. Peel
155 explained, that his
155Mr. Secretary Peel
 (with warmth.)—"I deny the charge, [loud cries of 'hear.'] I did not quote the letters of the right hon. Gentleman. There is an end of all discussion, if I cannot refer to facts. I said that an order was given for the recall of the British troops by a Secretary of State, and that Secretary was Mr. Huskisson. I quote no letters: I relate facts."Mr. Peel
 asked the right hon. the Master of the Mint, whom he saw in his place, why a copy of the evidence of Mr. Baring, and of the Governor and Deputy-Governor of the Bank of England, relative to the Silver Standard, which the Government had some time back consented to produce, was not laid on the Table. He thought it essential to give the country every possible information on this subject, in order to see if it would afford a means of relieving our distress.Mr. Wodehouse
120119 said, he gave his cordial thanks to the noble Lord who had introduced the subject to the House, and he congratulated those who had preceded him in the debate on the manly stand, they seemed disposed to make against our disgraceful conduct towards Portugal. Two years ago, when he brought forward a motion on the subject, the House appeared to look with perfect apathy at the matter, though he believed that there was scarcely a period of our history, in which such an appeal as that which had been made continually to the honour and humanity of Englishmen, by the unhappy Portuguese, during the last two years, would have been made in vain. At that time, however, the watchfulness of Parliament over foreign affairs, had gone to sleep. It was first wholly occupied by the Finance Committee, and afterwards by the Catholic Question. If Ministers had taken care of our internal interest, which certainly the present state of the country did not prove, they had been unmindful of the national honour abroad. It was quite evident at that time, that a despotism, founded on treachery and perjury, was to be established in Portugal, under the connivance, if not by the assistance, of England. England, he believed, assisted in establishing that despotism. She had got enshrined in her
120119Mr. E. Davenport
 in presenting two Petitions, one from the Justices of the Peace of the County of Galway, and the other from the Roman Catholic Clergy of the Warden-ship of Galway, praying that Roman Catholics might be admitted to the privileges of the Corporation of the Town of Galway, observed, that the petitioners stated, that formerly Catholics were admitted to all the privileges of the Corporation. Their rights were recognised by the Charter of Charles 2nd, and by the Irish House of Commons in 1715. The Act of 4lh Geo. 1st was intended only to give Protestants a more ready, and secure, and cheap mode of acquiring their freedom. By the late Act of admitting Roman Catholics to the civil offices of the State, they were certainly entitled also to enter the Corporation of the town of Galway; but that was contrary to the words of the Act of George 1st. The petitioners therefore prayed, and he warmly concurred in their prayer, that Parliament would adopt some means of removing all doubt on the subject, and of giving Roman Catholics an equal right with Protestants to share all the privileges of the Corporation of Galway.Mr. O'Hara,
126 explained. He never meant to say, according to the extravagant misrepresentation of the Member for Westminster, that this country was not able to
126Mr. Calcraft
117116115 was not surprised at the natural indignation which had been expressed by the noble Lord against the perfidy and treachery which had placed Portugal in its present situation. But Ministers, whose duty it was to consult the honour and true interests of the country, must not allow themselves to be induced to swerve from the direct path of their duty by any considerations having reference to the personal character of the princes with whom they had to treat. His object in rising, was to refute the imputation that the subversion of the Portugal Constitution had been occasioned by the influence of those Ministers. Any other line of policy than that which they had followed, particularly the line of policy so warmly, he might say passionately, recommended by the noble Lord and his friends, would be immediately followed by war; and war without any adequate reason, which, in their cooler moments, the noble Lord and his friends would condemn. Nothing else could be the result of the present Motion, and of the manner in which it had been brought forward; nothing else could be the result of calling on statesmen to act with a view to the personal character of Sovereigns, than war. War! war! interminable war, without any adequate motive, or any justification, either of interest, or of honour. He recollected that several of his hon. friends, whom he saw sitting on the other side of the House, had deprecated the interference in foreign affairs which had led to the late wars, and been the cause of imposing great burthens on the country; and he hoped they would pause, and not suffer themselves to be carried away by indignation against the personal character of a prince. Whatever indignation, therefore, they might feel at the past conduct of the
117116115Mr. Calcraft
154153152151150149148noscitur à, sociis147146145144143142 said, that he was well aware that that day was not ordinarily devoted to debate a great public question; but it having been admitted that his noble friend had no alternative but to bring forward his Motion on that day, or forego it altogether, that was a full vindication of his course of proceeding. It had always been admitted that one of the highest privileges of that House was to superintend the conduct of the Ministers, and never was there a time, perhaps, in which the exercise of that privilege had been so long suspended. He had reason to fear that ere long the country might regret that the House had, on the subject of our foreign relations, neglected its duty. Perhaps that might be attributed to the satisfaction which the conduct of the Ministers had given when they sacrificed, on a great public question, their individual opinions
154153152151150149148noscitur à, sociis147146145144143142Mr. Huskisson
 explained. What he complained of was, that his right hon. friend quoted despatches of his which he did not produce, and he challenged his right hon. friend to produce the letter signed by him.Mr. Huskisson
74, in presenting a Petition from a body of men who were not numerous, but very important, on account of their wealth, and the sums they paid to the revenue, he meant the English Distillers, observed, that the prayer of their petition was, that no alteration might be made in the discriminating duty now levied on rum, and on English corn-spirit. They had been induced to present the petition to the House by observing that a petition had lately been presented to it, praying for a reduction of the duty on rum. When that petition was presented
74Mr. W. Smith
 did not rise to oppose the Motion, but he wished to guard himself against its being supposed, should he remain silent, that he approved of the measure. What steps he might afterwards take to oppose the bill he did not then know, but he looked with extreme jealousy upon any measures interfering with corporate rights.Mr. Trant
118bella, horrida bella! said, he was of opinion, that his noble friend had completely established his case, and a painful case it appeared to him to be. Enough had been proved to justify his noble friend in deploring the fallen credit of this country, and arraigning the conduct which had been pursued by her Government. The conduct of England had been such as at first to give hopes to the liberal party in Portugal of support; but that afterwards it had contributed to crush their cause. By this conduct, England had lost one party in Portugal which had always been attached to her without gaining the affections of any other. It had been asked, what were the Government to do? But he would tell them what it ought not to have done. It ought not to have permitted the correspondence of Lord Beresford, boasting of the friendship of his party for Don Miguel; it ought not to have acknowledged with breathless haste, the blockade of Oporto; it ought not to have allowed the occupation of Portugal by our army to appear as the proximate cause of the downfall of the Portuguese Constitution. The right hon. Member for Wareham deprecated any interference in domestic affairs; but how could we interfere more effectually in the domestic affairs of any man than by recommending him a wife? The right hon. Gentleman also talked of the evils of war. Thrice he repeated the words 118bella, horrida bella!Lord Morpeth
9. Copies of the Correspondence between the Duke of Wellington, and the Marquises of Barbacena and Palmella, regarding the arrival in this country of the Queen, Donna Maria da Gloria, referred to in the Duke of Wellington's Letter to Lord Aberdeen, Jan.1829. (No. 37, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)8. Copy of the instructions given in 1828, to Lord Strangford, on his proceeding to the Brazils, and Copies or Extracts of such parts of all despatches to or from him, and to or from the Marquis of Barbacena, as relate to those negotiations for the settlement of the affairs of Portugal, which were announced in the Speech from the Throne, on the 5th of Feb. 1829.7. Extracts of such parts of any dispatches addressed to Sir Frederick Lamb, while in Portugal, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements of Don Miguel, and to the earnest and repeated remonstrances made in consequence thereof, in the name of his Majesty, and mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, on 24th July, 1828.6. Extracts of such further parts of the despatches from Sir Frederick Lamb, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements entered into by Don Miguel, and to the execution of the instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, in consequence thereof.5. Copy of the Instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, on his proceeding to Portugal, as His Majesty's Ambassador, in 1828.4. Copy of any Document explaining what "had' been settled in England," relative to the course to be pursued by Don Miguel on his arrival in Portugal; as referred to by Sir Frederick Lamb, in his despatch of 1st March 1820, (No. 17, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)1033. Copy of the Protocol of the conference held in London, on the 12th of January 1828,
1032. Extract of such parts of any communications made to Sir William A' Court, as relate to this interference.1. Extract of so much of the instructions given to Sir W. H. Clinton, on his taking the command of the British Force, sent to Portugal, in December 1826, as relates to the interference of the troops under his command, in suppressing disturbances in Lisbon, and in protecting the persons of the Royal Family of Portugal.
9. Copies of the Correspondence between the Duke of Wellington, and the Marquises of Barbacena and Palmella, regarding the arrival in this country of the Queen, Donna Maria da Gloria, referred to in the Duke of Wellington's Letter to Lord Aberdeen, Jan.1829. (No. 37, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)8. Copy of the instructions given in 1828, to Lord Strangford, on his proceeding to the Brazils, and Copies or Extracts of such parts of all despatches to or from him, and to or from the Marquis of Barbacena, as relate to those negotiations for the settlement of the affairs of Portugal, which were announced in the Speech from the Throne, on the 5th of Feb. 1829.7. Extracts of such parts of any dispatches addressed to Sir Frederick Lamb, while in Portugal, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements of Don Miguel, and to the earnest and repeated remonstrances made in consequence thereof, in the name of his Majesty, and mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, on 24th July, 1828.6. Extracts of such further parts of the despatches from Sir Frederick Lamb, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements entered into by Don Miguel, and to the execution of the instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, in consequence thereof.5. Copy of the Instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, on his proceeding to Portugal, as His Majesty's Ambassador, in 1828.4. Copy of any Document explaining what "had' been settled in England," relative to the course to be pursued by Don Miguel on his arrival in Portugal; as referred to by Sir Frederick Lamb, in his despatch of 1st March 1820, (No. 17, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)1033. Copy of the Protocol of the conference held in London, on the 12th of January 1828,
1032. Extract of such parts of any communications made to Sir William A' Court, as relate to this interference.1. Extract of so much of the instructions given to Sir W. H. Clinton, on his taking the command of the British Force, sent to Portugal, in December 1826, as relates to the interference of the troops under his command, in suppressing disturbances in Lisbon, and in protecting the persons of the Royal Family of Portugal.102101100999897965. That no notice should be taken of the changes, which had happened, in the form of Government in Portugal.4. That in case of the death of the King Regent, the Queen should reign.quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant3. That in case of the death of the Queen without issue, before Don Miguel, (quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant2. The conclusion of a family compact, of which the Emperor of Austria should be umpire.1. The immediate marriage of the Queen of Portugal with the Infant, Don Miguel, who should take the title of King.
5. That no notice should be taken of the changes, which had happened, in the form of Government in Portugal.4. That in case of the death of the King Regent, the Queen should reign.quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant3. That in case of the death of the Queen without issue, before Don Miguel, (quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant2. The conclusion of a family compact, of which the Emperor of Austria should be umpire.1. The immediate marriage of the Queen of Portugal with the Infant, Don Miguel, who should take the title of King.95The characters of Hell to trace.""Ample room, and verge enough,sine quâ non,9493de Jure92919089l.888786858483Vows made in pain, as violent as void."What feigned submission swore; how case recantHeight will recall high thoughts, how soon unsay"——How soon828180ultimi Romanorum,79Of public scorn."—A dismal universal hiss, the sound"—On all sides, from innumerable tongues,7877 rose to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the Affairs of Portugal. His lordship spoke to the following effect:—I feel that I ought, in the first place, to apologise to the House, for having fixed upon a day which, by the general understanding of all sides, is usually devoted to relaxation from Parliamentary duties; but it has been my misfortune, and not my fault. I have already been obliged twice to postpone my Motion. I have failed in an endeavour to make an arrangement with the Government, which would have enabled me to bring it on to-morrow; and I had no alternative, but either to make my Motion to-day, or else to put it off till April; and I did not think, that under all circumstances, I could with propriety, delay it so long. The Motion with which I shall conclude, will be for further information as to the conduct of the Government, with regard to the affairs of Portugal; and I trust I shall be able to establish such grounds for my Motion, that it will be impossible for the House to refuse to accede to it. There may be many
9. Copies of the Correspondence between the Duke of Wellington, and the Marquises of Barbacena and Palmella, regarding the arrival in this country of the Queen, Donna Maria da Gloria, referred to in the Duke of Wellington's Letter to Lord Aberdeen, Jan.1829. (No. 37, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)8. Copy of the instructions given in 1828, to Lord Strangford, on his proceeding to the Brazils, and Copies or Extracts of such parts of all despatches to or from him, and to or from the Marquis of Barbacena, as relate to those negotiations for the settlement of the affairs of Portugal, which were announced in the Speech from the Throne, on the 5th of Feb. 1829.7. Extracts of such parts of any dispatches addressed to Sir Frederick Lamb, while in Portugal, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements of Don Miguel, and to the earnest and repeated remonstrances made in consequence thereof, in the name of his Majesty, and mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, on 24th July, 1828.6. Extracts of such further parts of the despatches from Sir Frederick Lamb, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements entered into by Don Miguel, and to the execution of the instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, in consequence thereof.5. Copy of the Instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, on his proceeding to Portugal, as His Majesty's Ambassador, in 1828.4. Copy of any Document explaining what "had' been settled in England," relative to the course to be pursued by Don Miguel on his arrival in Portugal; as referred to by Sir Frederick Lamb, in his despatch of 1st March 1820, (No. 17, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)1033. Copy of the Protocol of the conference held in London, on the 12th of January 1828,
1032. Extract of such parts of any communications made to Sir William A' Court, as relate to this interference.1. Extract of so much of the instructions given to Sir W. H. Clinton, on his taking the command of the British Force, sent to Portugal, in December 1826, as relates to the interference of the troops under his command, in suppressing disturbances in Lisbon, and in protecting the persons of the Royal Family of Portugal.
9. Copies of the Correspondence between the Duke of Wellington, and the Marquises of Barbacena and Palmella, regarding the arrival in this country of the Queen, Donna Maria da Gloria, referred to in the Duke of Wellington's Letter to Lord Aberdeen, Jan.1829. (No. 37, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)8. Copy of the instructions given in 1828, to Lord Strangford, on his proceeding to the Brazils, and Copies or Extracts of such parts of all despatches to or from him, and to or from the Marquis of Barbacena, as relate to those negotiations for the settlement of the affairs of Portugal, which were announced in the Speech from the Throne, on the 5th of Feb. 1829.7. Extracts of such parts of any dispatches addressed to Sir Frederick Lamb, while in Portugal, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements of Don Miguel, and to the earnest and repeated remonstrances made in consequence thereof, in the name of his Majesty, and mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, on 24th July, 1828.6. Extracts of such further parts of the despatches from Sir Frederick Lamb, as relate to the proceedings in Portugal, in violation of the engagements entered into by Don Miguel, and to the execution of the instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, in consequence thereof.5. Copy of the Instructions given to Sir Frederick Lamb, on his proceeding to Portugal, as His Majesty's Ambassador, in 1828.4. Copy of any Document explaining what "had' been settled in England," relative to the course to be pursued by Don Miguel on his arrival in Portugal; as referred to by Sir Frederick Lamb, in his despatch of 1st March 1820, (No. 17, of the Papers presented to Parliament in June 1829.)1033. Copy of the Protocol of the conference held in London, on the 12th of January 1828,
1032. Extract of such parts of any communications made to Sir William A' Court, as relate to this interference.1. Extract of so much of the instructions given to Sir W. H. Clinton, on his taking the command of the British Force, sent to Portugal, in December 1826, as relates to the interference of the troops under his command, in suppressing disturbances in Lisbon, and in protecting the persons of the Royal Family of Portugal.102101100999897965. That no notice should be taken of the changes, which had happened, in the form of Government in Portugal.4. That in case of the death of the King Regent, the Queen should reign.quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant3. That in case of the death of the Queen without issue, before Don Miguel, (quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant2. The conclusion of a family compact, of which the Emperor of Austria should be umpire.1. The immediate marriage of the Queen of Portugal with the Infant, Don Miguel, who should take the title of King.
5. That no notice should be taken of the changes, which had happened, in the form of Government in Portugal.4. That in case of the death of the King Regent, the Queen should reign.quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant3. That in case of the death of the Queen without issue, before Don Miguel, (quod Dî prius omen in ipsum convertant2. The conclusion of a family compact, of which the Emperor of Austria should be umpire.1. The immediate marriage of the Queen of Portugal with the Infant, Don Miguel, who should take the title of King.95The characters of Hell to trace.""Ample room, and verge enough,sine quâ non,9493de Jure92919089l.888786858483Vows made in pain, as violent as void."What feigned submission swore; how case recantHeight will recall high thoughts, how soon unsay"——How soon828180ultimi Romanorum,79Of public scorn."—A dismal universal hiss, the sound"—On all sides, from innumerable tongues,7877Viscount Palmerston
157 replied.—He was not, he said, desirous of occupying the House at that hour, but some observations had fallen from his right hon. friend, to which a reply was necessary. His right hon. friend had complained that he had made choice of his points of attack, but he had forgotten to add, that the Motion was communicated to Government some time before, and it embraced every point on which he had made any observations. His right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) had charged him too with broaching opinions which he had not avowed whilst a member of the Cabinet; but, looking to dates, that reproach would not appear well founded. It was true, that he (Lord Palmerston) made no objection to withdrawing the British troops from Portugal; but he denied that the government of Portugal had then taken a decisive course. He (Lord Palmerston) felt himself in an embarrassing situation, for he did not know whether he was entitled to use, even hypothetically, the expressions in the remonstrances made by the English Government to Don Miguel; but he challenged his right hon. friend to produce them. The order for the recall of the troops was sent on the 6th of March. The arrival of the first communication of any thing like the assumption of royal authority on the part of Don Miguel was on the 7th of May. On the 19th of May, he (Lord Palmerston) attended the last Cabinet Council on this subject. He wished the right hon. Gentleman would produce the answer to that despatch of the 7th of May. It would appear from that despatch what was the tone held by the British Government towards Don Miguel. He challenged his right hon. friend to produce these papers, which would decide the difference between them. If his right hon. friend would produce the others, he would not press for
157Viscount Palmerston
156 said, that he did not think an armed interference was required; but Ministers had other means, even stronger than arms: and it would have been sufficient had they expressed their opinion against the usurpation. A foreign Minister of the country had declared that the friends of Don Miguel were the friends of this country; and a few nights after, the same Minister had declared that Don Miguel was cruel because he was cowardly. Both these sentiments were, in his opinion, improper; and he could not give his confidence to a foreign policy so conducted.
156Viscount Sandon
 said, he had a Petition to present from several individuals, complaining that their names had been inserted in the list of approvers of the Bill without their consent. That appeared to him an unwarrantable infringement on the rules of the House, which could on no account be passed over.Mr. Alderman Thompson
171 said, he had no wish to hurry forward an inquiry in the absence of that gentleman. He
171Mr. Alderman Thompson
 then presented a Petition from several persons, complaining that their names had been put down as subscribers to the same Junction Canal Bill, when they had never subscribed a single farthing. The list deposited in the Bill Office, they stated, was false; they therefore prayed that the House would institute an inquiry in order to find out the authors of this subscription-list, and that they might be heard by counsel at the Bar against the Bill. He had seen the subscription-list, and could assure the House, that the names of many persons were down as subscribers for large sums, whom he knew to be quite unable to pay any such amounts.Mr. Alderman Thompson
173d.l.l. presented a Petition, signed by 1,100 persons engaged in the sale of beer, by retail, in London, praying that the House might not consent to throw open the trade in Beer. He was aware, he said, that the House was disposed to take off the restrictions on trade as much as possible, and in that, as a general principle, he cordially concurred; but he thought the House ought to pause before it took a step which might not benefit the public, but would certainly be a most serious injury to persons carrying on the trade of Licensed Victuallers. The number of persons engaged in the trade of selling beer by retail in the metropolis, meaning-only licensed victuallers, was 4,300, and the houses they occupied, at the lowest average, were worth 250173d.l.l.Mr. Alderman Thompson
l. supported the prayer of the petition, and said that it was not an over-value to fix the loss which throwing open the trade in beer would occasion to the publicans of the metropolis at 2,000,000l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 in moving that the Petition be referred to the committee thanked the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. G. Dawson) for his candor on that occasion. When the House recollected the great stake the petitioners had in the inquiry, it would not be surprised that they should be anxious that their interests should receive due consideration.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 presented a Petition from the Manufacturers and Shopkeepers of Coventry, complaining of Distress, and praying for a Reform in Parliament. The hon. Baronet said, he perfectly concurred in the sentiments of the petitioners.Sir F. Burdett
202201ad valorem200lll199"The people, before these improvements took place, had no beneficial object to exercise their industry upon. In the course of opening these roads, and constructing the Caledonian Canal, there have been employed annually about 3,200 men on an average. At first, these men could scarcely work at all; they were totally unacquainted with labour; they could not use the tools; but they have since become excellent labourers. Of that number, by the gradual in flux and departure of the workmen, we consider that one-fourth left us annually, taught to work; so that these works may be considered in the light of a working academy, from which eight hundred have annually departed improved workmen. These men have either returned to their native districts, having had the experience of using the most perfect sort of tools and utensils (which alone cannot be considered less than ten per cent. on any labour), or they have been usefully disseminated throughout the other parts of the country. Since these roads were opened and made accessible to wheel-carriages, wheelwrights and cart wrights have been established in the country; and in different parts the plough has been introduced, and other improved tools and utensils are now used. In the western and more mountainous parts they frequently used crooked sticks, with iron on them, for ploughs; but now the plough is used, and these improvements have also led to the inclosure and cultivation of more land. I also conceive that by this mode of employment, the moral habits of the great mass of the working classes are changed. They see they may depend on their own exertions for support, and this appears to me an object of the first importance; but it goes on silently, and is scarcely perceived until apparent by the results. I consider these improvements one of the greatest blessings ever conferred on any country;" and he declared "they have been the means of advancing the. country one hundred years."198lllllllllllllllll197196195s.s.194193192191190l189l188187186lll185184 rose, he said, to bring forward, pursuant to notice, a Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the state of the Labouring Poor of Ireland, and the best means to improve their condition. The hon. Member adverted, in the first instance, to the discussion which had taken place upon the subject last Session, when it was brought under the notice of the House by a friend of his, who was no longer a Member— Mr. Villiers Stewart. Though he (Mr. S. Rice) did not fully concur in the resolution submitted on that occasion by his hon. friend, yet he was sure that if Mr. Villiers Stewart had continued a Member of that House to the present time, he would not have objected to the Motion with which he then intended to conclude, namely—"that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of the Labouring Poor in Ireland." After much regretting the absence of Mr. Villiers Stewart, and pronouncing a warm eulogium upon his character and talents, he went on to say, that though he and that gentleman essentially differed as to the means of effecting an improvement in the state of the labouring poor of Ireland, yet they were animated by the same spirit, and anxious to bring about similar results. They now came to the consideration of the state of the Irish poor, free from one of the great difficulties and impediments which had heretofore interrupted the consideration of any measures for the improvement of Ireland—he alluded to the religious dissensions which had so long distracted that country, and which were now so happily terminated. He had understood from the noble Lord opposite, that no objection would be made to the appointment of a committee, and he should therefore have limited himself to the mere terms of his Motion, had he not been apprehensive that his views and intentions might be mistaken in Ireland; and that in that House persons might support his Motion from misunderstanding the object he meant to keep in view. He desired to entrap no votes and no support on any false views, and therefore he meant, with the permission of the House, to enter into an explanation at considerable length. The first proposition which he meant to establish was, that there existed a case for
202201ad valorem200lll199"The people, before these improvements took place, had no beneficial object to exercise their industry upon. In the course of opening these roads, and constructing the Caledonian Canal, there have been employed annually about 3,200 men on an average. At first, these men could scarcely work at all; they were totally unacquainted with labour; they could not use the tools; but they have since become excellent labourers. Of that number, by the gradual in flux and departure of the workmen, we consider that one-fourth left us annually, taught to work; so that these works may be considered in the light of a working academy, from which eight hundred have annually departed improved workmen. These men have either returned to their native districts, having had the experience of using the most perfect sort of tools and utensils (which alone cannot be considered less than ten per cent. on any labour), or they have been usefully disseminated throughout the other parts of the country. Since these roads were opened and made accessible to wheel-carriages, wheelwrights and cart wrights have been established in the country; and in different parts the plough has been introduced, and other improved tools and utensils are now used. In the western and more mountainous parts they frequently used crooked sticks, with iron on them, for ploughs; but now the plough is used, and these improvements have also led to the inclosure and cultivation of more land. I also conceive that by this mode of employment, the moral habits of the great mass of the working classes are changed. They see they may depend on their own exertions for support, and this appears to me an object of the first importance; but it goes on silently, and is scarcely perceived until apparent by the results. I consider these improvements one of the greatest blessings ever conferred on any country;" and he declared "they have been the means of advancing the. country one hundred years."198lllllllllllllllll197196195s.s.194193192191190l189l188187186lll185184Mr. Spring Rice
204203 rose to second the Motion, and observed, that although he had been an advocate for the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, he had never contemplated the probability of the English system being introduced without considerable modifications. No one, surely, could suppose that he would wish to introduce all the abuses which had crept into the laws respecting the poor in this country. His hon. friend had asked what Poor-laws would he introduce? He answered at once, those which were in operation in Scotland. He would divide the poor and the helpless equally among the holders of all the land, absentees as well as residents, and compel them to provide for them; and he would make the absentees pay in the same proportion as in Scotland, where if the resident paid fourpence in the pound, the absentee was called on to pay eight-pence. He thought, however, that great
204203General Gascoyne
205 conceived that the hon. Member for Limerick deserved great thanks for the able manner in which he had brought this important subject under the notice of the House. It was almost superfluous for him (Mr. F. Lewis) to say that he entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Limerick in the necessity of the appointment of a committee on this subject. It was due to England no less than to Ireland, that we should inquire into the condition of the Irish poor, with a view to their relief. Since the great measure of last year, almost all the distinctions between the two countries were removed; they were now indissolubly united, and one of the few distinctions that still remained consisted in the laws which existed in this country for a compulsory provision for the poor, while no such laws existed in Ireland. That was an important subject, which deserved to be approached with caution, to be treated with due deliberation. There were two points to be taken into account in reference to this subject. The relief of the suffering poor in Ireland was to be balanced against the consideration, that the forced adoption of a compulsory rate for the relict of indigence and misery there would put into jeopardy every species of property in that country. It should be borne in mind, that in adopting any such measure for their relief, there was a risk of its being followed by such a result. With regard to the tolls at fairs and markets in Ireland, it certainly appeared to be necessary that the House should consider that subject immediately, with a view to devise some measure calculated to remedy that evil, at the same time that due attention ought to be paid to giving a compensation for local vested interests. He would venture to say that, upon inquiry, it would be found that these vexatious imposts and local duties at fairs and markets depressed the value of property to a tenfold greater amount than that of the benefit which they conferred upon the particular individual to whom they happened to belong. His hon. friend had also adverted to the county assessments with some censure, but in his opinion, the improvements resulting from
205Mr. Frankland Lewis
 intimated, that he did not propose to abolish, but only regulate and restrict these assessments.Mr. Spring Rice
206 said, as he had misunderstood his hon. friend, inquiry might make their views meet on that as well as on other points. He would next address a few observations to the House, in reference to the propriety of the introduction of the Poor-laws into Ireland. He had heard with great satisfaction from the hon. Member for Limerick, that there already existed, in different parts of Ireland, a great number of charitable institutions for the relief of the poor. He thought his hon. friend had referred to the existence of these institutions to show that there was no necessity for Poor-laws in Ireland: and he had anxiously waited to hear from his hon. friend some practical conclusion on that point, or some proposal for the extension of legislative aid to those institutions. His hon. friend however stated, that there was at present a tendency in Ireland to disparage such institutions, and he afterwards appeared inclined to suggest that Parliament should make grants of the public money for their support. Now he could not well reconcile those two propositions, and he did not very clearly see what good could be effected by public grants to institutions, the utility of which was even at present questioned, and the character of which met with general disparagement in Ireland. His hon. friend had then approached the subject of the Poor-laws, and he had asked, what modification of them it was proposed to introduce into Ireland? Now, whether or not it would be wise to introduce a modification of the English Poor-laws into Ireland was a question which certainly deserved the most serious, cautious, and deliberate consideration. If he might be permitted to offer a suggestion upon the subject, he should rather recommend an imitation of the Scotch system of Poor-laws, for it was only upon such principles as that system was founded, that a proper system of compulsory provision for the poor could be administered in Ireland. The great difficulty in adapting a system of Poor-laws to Ireland would be to find proper persons to administer them, and it appeared to him - that the most proper persons to administer
206Mr. Frankland Lewis
209208l.207 commenced his observations by complimenting his hon. friend, the Member for Limerick, on the able and eloquent speech which he had just made, and on the conciliatory manner in which he submitted his motion to the House. He must, however, express a hope that his friend would confine the labours of the committee to one point— namely, the best means of finding employment in Ireland for the poor of that country, who now came over to England, and that he would not extend them over the numerous points which he had mentioned, as such inquiries could lead to no practical ad-
209208l.207Mr. G. Dawson
211210 after thanking the hon. Member for Limerick for having brought forward the Motion, of which he should have been suspicious had it been in other hands, or had it merely proposed to inquire, without practically relieving the existing distress, proceeded to say, that he was of opinion that his hon. friend, the Member for Limerick, had not stated the case of the existing distress in Ireland so broadly as he might have done. He had frequently described in that House the state of the suffering poor of Ireland; and he had been charged with drawing upon his imagination rather than narrating fact. He wished that he could be convicted of having done so. But of this he was sure, that whatever language he and others might have used, either in the House itself, or before committees, no language could be exaggerated which described the sufferings of the great mass of the labouring population of Ireland. Not only were the Irish people below the general standard of European improvement,
211210Mr. Brownlow,
213 said, he heartily concurred with the object of the Motion made by the hon. Member for Limerick, though he differed from that hon. Member as to some of the doctrines he had laid down. Knowing the attention that the hon. Member had paid to the subject of political economy, he was glad to hear that hon. Member declare that he would not be classed with those who maintained absenteeism to be no evil. The process of reasoning by which the gentleman who stood so high in that science had arrived at the conclusion which he had stated before a Committee of the House, and subsequently published, he had always been unable to understand—and he would make the same reply to the fallacy as Johnson made to the philosophy of Berkeley—he would strike his foot upon Besborough and Michelstown, and contrasting them with places to which the landlord never came, the difference would afford a refutation of the doctrine. He did not think that the sudden introduction into Ireland of a system of Poor-laws would check the immigration of Irish poor into this country, or the emigration of Irish gentlemen. It was only by making the country more agreeable that the latter would remain, and the former would come over in great numbers, as they had hitherto done: if they could not find one means of procuring a passage, they would resort to another—they would be like Rabelais, who, when he wanted to go to Paris, and could not afford the means of the journey, wrote on two packets, "poison for the King," and "poison for the Queen," and had his expenses defrayed by the Government, and explained on his arrival the circumstances which had created so much alarm by telling the authorities that he had found that the cheapest and most expeditious method of getting conveyed to Paris. The evils of this system of immigration into this country of the Irish poor had often been referred to, but Members had overlooked the advantage of their coming here at a season when a great degree of labour was required. The only part of the hon. Member's speech that created apprehension in his mind was the last portion, in which he proposed more subjects for consideration than could be advantageously investigated by any committee. He would not say that in any one of the things mentioned by the hon. Member the interests of the poor
213Lord F. L. Gower
216215214 said, that there had been several definitions given of the Poor-laws that night, which differed materially from each other. The definition of the hon. Member for Liverpool (General Gascoyne) was this—that if Irishmen came to England a second time, they were to be punished,—fined, he believed. [General Gascoyne said "confined."] Well, confined: that would prevent a repetition of the offence. But if he confined all who so offended, Liverpool must be provided with large gaols. The hon. Member had talked of the manufactures which England supplied to Ireland; but the Irish sent their manufactures likewise—their principal manufactures were corn and men. Another definition was given by the hon. Member for Armagh (Mr. Brownlow) which was the adoption of the Act of Elizabeth. But he apprehended that the adoption of the Act of Elizabeth would be pregnant with consequences mischievous to those very persons whom he was desirous of serving. If the principle of a compulsory demand for subsistence by the poor be admitted, all the evils experienced from the Poor-laws in England would afford a very slight notion of the evils which would arise in Ireland. The Poor-laws, it was well known to all who were acquainted with Ireland, were not applicable to that country. The whole pauper-population, instead of being incited to labour, would be encouraged in idleness. He was, however, not disposed to refuse making a safe and proper provision for the poor, he
216215214Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 explained: He had only said that a repetition of applications by the same persons for passes into England might be punished by imprisonment, in order to prevent them making a trade of travelling.General Gascoyne
219pro tanto218217 was unwilling to permit a question relating so immediately to the domestic policy of one part of the empire, and not very remote from that of the other, to pass without a few observations from him, particularly in consideration of the public situation which he held. He was favourable to the appointment of the Committee; for nothing could be more improper than to attempt to legislate upon the subject of providing for the Irish poor, without very mature preliminary inquiries, and nothing could be so unwise as to reject the proposal to legislate after such inquiries had been made. One great part of the value of the Committee would depend on the mode in which the inquiry should be conducted. If the Committee entered into the general condition of the Irish poor, he would not say that much valuable information would not be collected, but perfectly certain was he that no practical result would ensue. He would advise his hon. friend, who he supposed would sit as chairman of the Committee, to make his report upon the few following points:— First, a clear statement to the House, and to the British public, of the existing enactments in Ireland, with reference to the provisions for the Irish poor; the extent to which the land is subject to any pecuniary levy for the purposes of providing for any classes of the poor, mutilated, diseased, or wanting subsistence; next to inquire, whether it were desirable to extend those enactments, and to describe the measures by which they were to be extended, with the machinery by
219pro tanto218217Mr. Secretary Peel
: I said imprisonment and hard labour.General Gascoyne
220 Then the passengers would never come again. But it would not be a cheap way of getting rid of Irish labourers, to build a jail and support them at the expense of the rest of the population. The best way would be to find an open market for the poor man's labour, his only commodity; and any laws to prevent the poor man from passing freely from one part of the country to another would be pregnant with injustice. As to large institutions in Ireland, to receive the poor who were unable to provide for themselves, he despaired of any effectual remedy from such a scheme. This was the worst system that could be introduced; for it was providing not only food but lodging, which ought not, he thought, to be done, except in cases of disease, or decrepitude from accident. He much doubted if the introduction of the English Poor-laws into Ireland would relieve the poor of England; for England did not suffer from Irish distress, but from the invasion of Irish labourers. The English fanner had the benefit of cheap labour, by the influx of Irish poor. The Poor-laws in Ireland would increase distress, as they would prevent the building of cottages, and have other injurious effects. They would probably banish from the country a number of persons of small
220Mr. Peel continued
 was sorry to observe, that the hon. Mover had taken too partial a view of this subject, his mind being evidently made up before he moved for the committee; and he lamented, too, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) opposite seemed to think that almost no relief by a measure of this nature could be introduced into Ireland. Sure he was, that something must be done to raise the moral character of the Irish peasantry. He saw well the prudence of giving no distinct pledge on this subject, until the labours of the Committee should be concluded. He would not detain the House at that late hour, but reserve to another opportunity the expression of his views. He begged, however, to be allowed to observe, that unless something were done to prevent the influx of Irish peasantry into this country, our own peasantry would soon be as badly off as the Irish: In the last year no less than 50,000 deck passengers came over from Ireland into this country. The injurious effects of this influx must be obvious to every one. He was averse to introduce the English system, with its abuses, into Ireland, but he must say he thought that something might be done by a system like our own, but relieved of the abuses which had grown up here. The Committee, however, would be the place for investigating this question.Mr. Slaney
221 said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, assumed that these 50,000 persons from Ireland were paupers, and vagrants, and vagabonds. This was not the case; they paid for their passage to this country, and brought with them the gifts which nature had conferred upon them; their strength and their sinews. They asked for employment, and, if they obtained it, they gave, in their labour, a fair recompense for the money they received. He did not mean to say that vagrants and vagabonds did not come from Ireland, or
221Mr. A. Dawson
 said, that he had applied neither the term vagabond nor vagrant to the Irish who came over here. He had not wished to apply such terms to them, and if he had so wished, still, surrounded as he was by so many sensitive Members from the sister kingdom, his prudence would have got the better of his wish.Mr. Slaney
 said, that at that late hour he should detain the House but for a very few moments. He did not think that the influx of the Irish was so great an evil as had been represented, in regard to its effects upon our own peasantry. For, in the first place, the influx was chiefly confined to London and the great towns. In the country it lasted only during harvest-time. Against this evil, however, such as it was, our Poor-laws were our security, and did not, as it had been supposed they did, increase the evil. For, if the Irish offered their labour at fifty per cent under our own labourers, the farmer would not accept the offer, because he knew that if he did, the English labourers would next day come upon him for relief as paupers.Mr. Monck
222 begged to notice an expression which had fallen from the hon. Member for Shrewsbury. The expression was calumnious; and although he was sure the hon. Member had not so intended it, yet he felt it necessary to notice and to correct the expression. The hon. Member had talked about raising the moral character of the Irish peasantry. Now he begged leave to tell the hon. Member,
222Mr. O'Connell
 said, that with his experience as a magistrate of the mischiefs of the Poor-laws in this country, he could never think of advocating the extension of those laws to the sister kingdom.Sir C. Cole
 in explanation, said, that he had not used the words "moral character," in the sense in which the hon. Member for Clare had understood them.Mr. Slaney,
 said, that the Committee, from the wording of the Motion, had already power to extend their inquiries to that point; and it was unusual to give an instruction to it to do that which it already had the power to do.The Speaker
 said, that if there were no objection, he would move that Mr. Trant's name be added to the Committee, and he might submit his own views to it.Mr. Hume
 could have no personal objection to the hon. Member's name being added to the Committee; but, on general principles, he objected to the proposition, because other hon. Members might make similar ones, and so extend the Committee to the whole House.Lord F. L. Gower
 rose for the purpose of bringing forward his Motion regarding the Trial by Jury in Civil Causes, &c. in Scotland.The Lord Advocate
 presented a petition from a Mr. Johnston, praying for the abolition of Slavery in the West Indies.Mr. Jephson
 consented to defer the subject till to-morrow, taking the chance of being then able to bring it forward.The Lord Advocate
223 wished to hear from the
223Mr. R. Gordon
 replied, that as the subject was postponed, any statement like that now called for would be premature.Mr. Herries
 added, that last year the Chancellor of the Exchequer had also refused to answer, and his reason was very soon discovered. He wished to augment the salaries of the judges.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, it would ill become him, at that late hour of the night, to take up the time of the House. He would therefore merely state, that the corporation of London were anxious for an inquiry on this subject, as well for other reasons as to see if another method of selling coals,—namely, by weight instead of measure—might not be resorted to with advantage to the public. He begged to move that "A Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of the Coal Trade at the Port of London,—into the delivery of Coals in London, Westminster, the liberties thereof, and in certain parts of Middlesex, Surrey, Kent and Essex,—and into the prices of Coals in the Port of London, and in the ports of shipment, with the view of determining whether any and what restrictions should be attached to the supply of Coals."Mr. Alderman Wood
 proposed, as an Amendment, to add to the Motion, after the words "Port of London," the words, "and other ports."Mr. Rumbold
 suggested that the Motion already carried the inquiries of the Committee far enough, by including the Port of London and the ports of shipment.Mr. F. Lewis
224 in supporting the Motion said, that the chief object of the City of London, in wishing for this Committee was, to relieve Coals brought to the Port of London from any unnecessary charge, and he hoped, indeed he had reason to believe, from what fell from the
224Mr. Alderman Thompson,
 said, that nothing was more accordant with the wishes of the Coal-owners of the North, than to meet the inquiry in the same spirit in which it was proposed. He hoped his hon. friend would not press his Amendment. The subject it embraced was one of much interest, and an inquiry into it would no doubt be hereafter instituted, but it would extend the labours of the present Committee too much. It would be of sufficient importance to form the subject of a separate inquiry, and he hoped it would be gone into hereafter.Mr. S. Wortley
, said, he had now no wish to press his Amendment.Mr. Rumbold
 said, the name of a Member from each of the counties near London, and one of the Members for Westminster, would be extremely desirable. He thought this selection extremely good.Mr. Herries
 name was added to the Committee.Sir T. D. Acland's
 was much gratified at the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry upon that subject, and equally so at the selection made.Mr. Herries
 assured the House that the Coal-owners of the North desired earnestly to advance the objects for which the Committee had been moved.Mr. Liddell
 expressed a hope that the other parts of the inquiry would be taken up at a future time.Mr. Holdsworth
176 acknowledged that that was not a proper occasion for entering on the discussion, as all parties would have an opportunity of making their sentiments known to the committee, who, he was sure, would pay due attention to their statements, and act between conflicting interests as justice might dictate. He believed that Ministers meant to act fairly by all parties, but many industrious individuals, he feared, would be overwhelmed with distress, if not with ruin, if the existing system were very considerably and suddenly altered. Why the right hon. baronet
176Mr. C. Barclay
"These being the views," said Mr. Thomson in conclusion, "which the petitioners entertain on this important subject, they pray your honourable House will adopt such measures as may afford greater facilities for the extension of the trade with India and China, promote its general prosperity, and conduce to the improvement and welfare of the vast population of the British territories in the East.""But, pending the consideration which is now giving to this most important object, the petitioners say they cannot withhold the expression of their opinion that the interests of British merchants, ship-owners, and manufacturers, ought not to be any longer disregarded in relation to the commerce of China; nor the expression of their hope, that merchants of this country shall be no longer excluded from the exercise of their skill, and the employment of their capital, in a lucrative branch of the commerce of the world, open to all other nations of Europe and America, whilst the exclusion of the private merchants of the United Kingdom has, without producing any corresponding benefit to the East-India Company, had the direct effect of checking the general commerce of the country, and narrowing the consumption of its manufactures."The petitioners further say, that they refrain, at this time, from making any declaration on the important question of the monopoly in the supply of tea to this country, now vested in the East-India Company, because, in their opinion, that subject is interwoven with various other considerations, besides those purely commercial, which render a full investigation indispensably necessary for establishing a fair and just decision as to the course which it may be wise to pursue in furtherance of the common interests of the country.The petitioners add, however, "That, whilst they express this opinion as to the bounds which should be set to the commercial interference of the government of India, they desire to be distinctly understood not to uphold the usefulness or necessity of even such limited transactions, believing as they do, that the condition of India will, under a free and open competition of commerce, afford further proof to the experience furnished by all other countries in the world, that the work of remittance can be best performed by means of the industry, intelligence, and economy of merchants individually interested in the result of their undertakings.179"They further state, that it is their opinion, supported by the personal experience of many of them, that commercial dealings, on the part of the Government of India, whether as merchants or manufacturers, are destructive of fair competition, and arc, in consequence, calculated rather to depress than excite commercial enterprise through the countries subject to their dominion. It is, therefore, most important to the mercantile prosperity of India that the government of that country should be entirely restricted from all commercial dealings, save and except, in reference to the export trade from India to Europe, it be absolutely necessary to buy produce in open market, for the purpose of remittance in aid of the territorial demands on the London treasury,
179"That, adverting to the fact of the Government of India having recently imposed a heavy and most vexatious burthen on the commerce of that country, through the operation of the 'Stamp Regulation,' it is, in their opinion, due to the commercial interests of India that the trade should be at once relieved from that burthen, and protected against the imposition of any tax whatever by the local government, without a fair opportunity being afforded to all parties affected thereby of canvassing its merits and provisions, and of submitting to the Government such objections as they may entertain to the measure, previously to its acquiring the force of law."That they confidently rely that, in any renewal of the Charter of the East India Company, due provision will be made to allow such free intercourse of British subjects with India, and to give to them such right of settling therein, as shall (consistently with the security of the British Government, and the welfare of the native population) be best calculated to promote the full development of the internal resources of that country, and, by the application of British skill and capital, improve its various products, especially those of sugar, cotton, silk, and tobacco; these being the principal means by which, in the opinion of your petitioners, a further extension of the valuable trade with India, now obstructed by the difficulty of obtaining returns, may be facilitated."That it is their opinion, from the experience obtained since the opening of the trade to the East Indies, by the 53rd of George 3rd, and subsequent acts, that the manufacturing, shipping, and commercial interests of the United Kingdom have derived very important advantages therefrom."That they are deeply interested in the inquiry now pending in your hon. House ' into the state of the Trade between Great Britain, the East Indies, and China,' as connected with a renewal of the Charter to the East-India Company.178 said, he had to present a Petition from individuals whose wealth, influence, and respectability placed them on a footing of equality with the highest classes of their fellow-subjects, and entitled their sentiments on all subjects, but more especially on that which was involved in their petition, to the most earnest and respectful attention of the House. It related to the monopoly of the East-India Company, in reference to which they held but one opinion, and that was embodied in the petition which he had the honour to present. It was not necessary for him, on that occasion, to say any thing of his own sentiments, he would merely state the views which were taken by the petitioners. He was gratified in having an opportunity of doing so, as it had been industriously represented that the merchants of London, who were concerned in the East India trade, had separate interests, and entertained separate opinions, quite different from those already so generally expressed by the merchants of the outports. The petition in his hand fully refuted those assertions, and proved that the London merchants made common cause with the parties to former petitions, and perfectly coincided in their sentiments with the merchants and manufacturers at the outports."These being the views," said Mr. Thomson in conclusion, "which the petitioners entertain on this important subject, they pray your honourable House will adopt such measures as may afford greater facilities for the extension of the trade with India and China, promote its general prosperity, and conduce to the improvement and welfare of the vast population of the British territories in the East.""But, pending the consideration which is now giving to this most important object, the petitioners say they cannot withhold the expression of their opinion that the interests of British merchants, ship-owners, and manufacturers, ought not to be any longer disregarded in relation to the commerce of China; nor the expression of their hope, that merchants of this country shall be no longer excluded from the exercise of their skill, and the employment of their capital, in a lucrative branch of the commerce of the world, open to all other nations of Europe and America, whilst the exclusion of the private merchants of the United Kingdom has, without producing any corresponding benefit to the East-India Company, had the direct effect of checking the general commerce of the country, and narrowing the consumption of its manufactures."The petitioners further say, that they refrain, at this time, from making any declaration on the important question of the monopoly in the supply of tea to this country, now vested in the East-India Company, because, in their opinion, that subject is interwoven with various other considerations, besides those purely commercial, which render a full investigation indispensably necessary for establishing a fair and just decision as to the course which it may be wise to pursue in furtherance of the common interests of the country.The petitioners add, however, "That, whilst they express this opinion as to the bounds which should be set to the commercial interference of the government of India, they desire to be distinctly understood not to uphold the usefulness or necessity of even such limited transactions, believing as they do, that the condition of India will, under a free and open competition of commerce, afford further proof to the experience furnished by all other countries in the world, that the work of remittance can be best performed by means of the industry, intelligence, and economy of merchants individually interested in the result of their undertakings.179"They further state, that it is their opinion, supported by the personal experience of many of them, that commercial dealings, on the part of the Government of India, whether as merchants or manufacturers, are destructive of fair competition, and arc, in consequence, calculated rather to depress than excite commercial enterprise through the countries subject to their dominion. It is, therefore, most important to the mercantile prosperity of India that the government of that country should be entirely restricted from all commercial dealings, save and except, in reference to the export trade from India to Europe, it be absolutely necessary to buy produce in open market, for the purpose of remittance in aid of the territorial demands on the London treasury,
179"That, adverting to the fact of the Government of India having recently imposed a heavy and most vexatious burthen on the commerce of that country, through the operation of the 'Stamp Regulation,' it is, in their opinion, due to the commercial interests of India that the trade should be at once relieved from that burthen, and protected against the imposition of any tax whatever by the local government, without a fair opportunity being afforded to all parties affected thereby of canvassing its merits and provisions, and of submitting to the Government such objections as they may entertain to the measure, previously to its acquiring the force of law."That they confidently rely that, in any renewal of the Charter of the East India Company, due provision will be made to allow such free intercourse of British subjects with India, and to give to them such right of settling therein, as shall (consistently with the security of the British Government, and the welfare of the native population) be best calculated to promote the full development of the internal resources of that country, and, by the application of British skill and capital, improve its various products, especially those of sugar, cotton, silk, and tobacco; these being the principal means by which, in the opinion of your petitioners, a further extension of the valuable trade with India, now obstructed by the difficulty of obtaining returns, may be facilitated."That it is their opinion, from the experience obtained since the opening of the trade to the East Indies, by the 53rd of George 3rd, and subsequent acts, that the manufacturing, shipping, and commercial interests of the United Kingdom have derived very important advantages therefrom."That they are deeply interested in the inquiry now pending in your hon. House ' into the state of the Trade between Great Britain, the East Indies, and China,' as connected with a renewal of the Charter to the East-India Company.178Mr. Poulett Thomson
 said, that what the petitioners complained of, the House was bound to inquire into. It was of such a nature that it was not to be overlooked. He had no object in pressing the inquiry but to do justice, and he hoped that Mr. Eyre Lee, and the other parties, would be fully heard in their own defence. He could not avoid regretting, however, that the hon. Member for Staffordshire had not evinced the same desire for parties to be heard, when he (Mr. Harvey) presented a petition from an individual against a measure by which his interests were affected.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l. said, that the allegation was, that a false subscription had been deposed at the Private Bill Office, which was a fraud. If it were proved, though he did not accuse Mr. Eyre Lee, or any other gentleman, the Bill ought to be instantly rejected, and an inquiry set on foot as to its author. One of the allegations of the petition was, that the name of a person appeared in the list of subscribers for 1,000l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 in seconding the motion of his hon. friend for bringing up the petition, said, he did not think the House was taking all the steps it might for the abolition of Slavery in the West Indies. He was willing to admit that in those colonies which had no legislatures of their own, being under the immediate control of the Crown, something had been done for ameliorating the condition of the slave-population. Where, however, there happened, unfortunately for the poor negroes, to be a colonial legislature, the condition of those unhappy beings remained unchanged. He could not let that opportunity pass without expressing his deep abhorrence of a system which subjected one human being to the lash of another; a system repugnant alike to the best feelings of humanity, and to the dictates of sound policy.Mr. O'Connell,
l182 said, he had two Petitions to present, praying for a Radical Reform in that House. He feared that the position for which the petitioners contended was likely to meet with but little favour in that House; but, in his opinion, and he had little hesitation in stating that opinion, the reform of the House was a debt due from Parliament to the people—that was an assertion which he advisedly made, and which he felt bound to sustain, as well from a deep conviction of its truth, as from the additional reason for sustaining it, which he derived from the solemn pledge upon the subject which he had given to his constituents, and which formed one of the conditions upon which he had accepted the situation of one of their representatives. One of the petitions which he had to present on this subject, was from certain inhabitants of Ireland; the other emanated from a meeting held in London, where no less than 30,000 individuals were present—it was a meeting at which the utmost order and decorum prevailed—it was conducted in the most regular and peaceable manner—he was sure with the most loyal intentions—he knew with the most perfect unanimity. The Petition prayed for Radical Reform: it came from 30,000 British subjects, who considered that that House of Parliament ought not to be an instalment of the other House—that the people of England ought not to allow themselves to be made the property of an oligarchy. He had the highest respect individually for many of those who commanded seats in that House, but he could not shut his eyes to the usurpation of popular privileges of which they were guilty. The petition which he had to lay before them from Ireland, bore two thousand signatures; and with the permission of the House, he would briefly and rapidly go through the statement and prayer of that petition. It contended, in the first place, that all persons under the degree of a Peer, had a right to be represented in that House; that no Peer was entitled to interfere in elections of Members to serve in that House; that it was robbery to levy taxes upon any class not duly represented there; and that it would be murder to put any man to death under laws enacted by a
l182Mr. O'Connell
 said, that until last year, when the regulations then made limited the time of presenting petitions complaining of irregularities, with respect to the Standing Orders such a petition might have been presented at any time. If the House were once to open a door to vexatious proceedings, by infringing those regulations, the consequence would be, that attornies in a late stage of the proceedings, point out some irregularity as to the Standing Orders, with a view to stop the progress of a bill to which his clients were opposed. He admitted that the case of the petitioners was a hard one, but he thought it would be still greater hardship, if the rules of the House were departed from. Mr. Littleton
 suggested, that the safer course would be, to adhere to the rules laid down by the House.Mr. Littleton
 thought, that his conduct on that occasion needed no justification, and that he was bound to move a resolution, declaring that it was improper for a person to be both judge and attorney in the same cause.Mr. Littleton
ex parte deprecated the discussion, which was allex parteMr. Littleton
172 said, that the Standing
172Mr. Littleton
 said, that it was not his intention that the committee should proceed in the investigation till Mr. Eyre Lee was present. He did not implicate Mr. Lec, or any other person, but would leave the matter entirely to the committee.Mr. Lawley
 in presenting three Petitions from individuals against the London and Birmingham Junction Canal Bill, complaining that their names had been improperly inserted in the subscription-list, observed, that so many irregularities had been committed in the management of the Bill, and so many of the Standing Orders of the House had been violated, that he wished these Petitions should be referred to a Committee to examine their allegations.Mr. Lawley,
 said, he understood that the petitioners were prepared to prove that the Standing Orders had been evaded.Mr. Lawley
 said, that he was disposed to give every consideration to the prayer of the petitioners; but he thought it would be attended with great inconvenience to allow the parties to be heard by themselves or counsel before the committee then sitting to inquire into the regulations under which beer was sold. Such a course would only tend to bring before that committee very exaggerated statements, and would delay its proceeding without contributing to the discovery of truth. It was to be hoped that hon. Members would not be so far carried away by the heat of debate as to enter on a desultory, irregular discussion on the merits of a question, at a time when it could possibly be productive of no eventual good, but would content themselves with, providing' evidence that might be laid before the committee, and reserve their arguments for the proper place, where they could be fairly sifted and turned to account. The committee sitting upon the subject above stairs, he had no doubt would be disposed to pay every attention to the representations of a body so respectable as the petitioners.Mr. G. Dawson
l.l. said, he had another Petition of the same sort to present. He hoped that when the question came to be discussed, they would not be met with an argument founded upon the immense capital which the Company invested in their concern and the business of their trade. He was afraid, however, that it would be said—What! do you propose to take away the trade with China, without enabling them to pay their debt? Such an argument might be valid if the Company had paid off any debt while it had the trade all to itself, but it happened that the debt of the Company had increased since 1813, from 7,000,000l.l.General Gascoyne
s.s.175 concurred in thinking' that all exaggerated statements ought to be avoided. He should not have said one word on the subject, had not the hon. Baronet indulged in some remarks which might better have been spared, as they were totally uncalled for. He did not intend to advance any thing in vindication of the monopoly of brewers, although a brewer himself; but he would say, that the present system of excessive taxation bore very hard upon the publican. People did not appear to be aware of the amount to which the beverage of the poor man was
s.s.175Mr. F. Buxton
 who said he had proposed the Resolution just referred to, was of opinion that it did prevent vexatious opposition, while it gave a means of redress. If it were made out that names and sums had been put down without any authority, that, by the rules, of the House would justify throwing out the Bill.Mr. Hume,
 observed, that in the Committee the Coal-owners were represented; the City of London was represented; the owners of the ports were represented. He wished to know what names were put on the Committee on behalf of the public? He therefore proposed the addition of Sir T. D. Acland's name.Mr. Hume
 presented a similar Petition from thirty-six individuals. They had applied for shares in the canal, but had never received any answer. They had never paid any deposit, and many of them said they were unable to pay the large sums placed against their names. He thought these were matters that required serious investigation, and he should move that the petition be referred to a committee. He wished, as well as the hon. Baronet, not to condemn a man unheard, and he should be ready to assist Mr. Eyre Lee in making his defence; but if he could not defend himself, it would be his painful duty to uphold the dignity of Parliament, and bring the offender to account.Mr. Benson
 declared his conviction, that the parties to this petition were suffering under most overwhelming distress. He did not take offence on account of their not having intrusted it to him, but should have candidly stated, had he been so honoured, how far he agreed with them, and how far he dissented. They prayed, as he was informed, for annual parliaments, election by ballot, and universal suffrage, on none of which points did their opinions coincide with his own. With respect to their desire for introducing ballot, he could never be brought to approve that American, or rather dark Italian system of election, but he could give his hearty support to a temperate and gradual reform. He agreed with that part of the petition which represented the retail dealers as being in extreme distress. He knew they were so generally in the country, whatever they might be in town, and he was amazingly surprised to hear from high authority, that they were flourishing and prosperous. In his opinion, the true and only remedy for distress was relief from taxation, and for that he would vote, though he would not lend his name to swell ministerial majorities, nor to give importance to factious opposition.Mr. Fyler
 rebuked the hon. and gallant officer for having indulged in some exaggerated statements. In the committee the question, he hoped, would rest only on its own merits, and be decided on the principle of justice, apart from the consideration of the relative units, whether millions or thousands, on the one side or the other, and without reference to the exaggerated statements which were every now and then made to the House.Mr. Astell
 presented a similar Petition from the Liverpool Dock Company.Mr. Huskisson
180 stated, that he was about to present a Petition, very numerously and
180Mr. Huskisson
170 explained, that up to the Session before last, a petition might be presented against a private bill at any stage of its progress through the House, complaining that the Standing Orders had not been observed. That power, however, was frequently abused, and petitions presented at a late stage of the measure, in order to frighten the party promoting it, or increase his expense. To guard against this, the House ruled that no petition should be received complaining that the Standing Orders had not been complied with, after the first reading of any private bill. This regulation was, however, found to go too far, and in practice, as a private bill was generally brought in when a Committee reported that the Standing Orders had been complied with, to operate as a complete bar against all petitions. To remedy this, the time of petitioning was extended to the second reading of a bill, because that allowed the parties opposing the bill an opportunity of petitioning against it, on account of the Standing Orders not having been complied
170The Speaker
169 stated it to be his opinion, that the case could not be passed over, though there was a difficulty in saying what was to be done, as it could only be
169The Speaker
 said, as there was no breach of privilege, and no irregularity in the forms which had been followed, he was at a loss to know to what committee it could be referred for investigation.The Speaker
 explained, that the rule of the House was, to give leave to bring in a private bill, after the petition praying for leave to bring it in had been referred to a committee. It was the duty of the committee to ascertain that the Standing Orders had been complied with. A petition against the principle of a bill might be received at any stage, but petitions against its details were always referred to the committee after it had been read a second time. In this case it appeared, as the Bill had been read a first time, that it must have been referred to a committee, which had reported that the Standing Orders had been complied with. If the hon. Member were prepared to show that the committee had been imposed on, the House might reject the Bill.The Speaker
 pressed the postponement of the important subject at so late an hour.Mr. Hume and Sir George Warrender
 knew nothing of the particular case, but he wished that every Englishman, when accused, should have a fair trial.Sir John Wrottesley
 rose to second the Motion. He assured the House that the Coal-owners were extremely anxious that this inquiry should be instituted, and that they would be happy to render all the assistance, and to give all the information in their power to the Committee.Sir M. W. Ridley
174 objected to the practice of urging vested interests against any
174Sir J. Newport
 gave his support to the Motion. He was glad that inquiry was about to be instituted, and he hoped it would lead to the total repeal of the unequal and very unjust tax which was levied on Coals.Sir T. D. Acland
 denied that such an increase as that stated by the hon. Member had actually taken place.Lord Lowther
 presented a Petition from several inhabitants of the hamlets and places adjoining Kensington, complaining of the New Tolls which had been levied on them under the New Act for Consolidating the Turnpike Trusts in the neighbourhood of the metropolis. By the new regulations a toll was levied on vehicles every time they passed; and as the short stages, with many descriptions of coal and market carts went through these gates several times a day, these new regulations had added considerably to the expenses. The toll had also been raised on other coaches, so as to increase very much the sums taken from all coach proprietors, reducing their profits very much. He should, on some future clay, move that the petition be referred to a committee, to inquire into the facts of the case, unless he learnt in the mean time, that the commissioners appointed to carry the Act into execution had given the petitioners relief.Mr. Byng
d227 said, that he had very little doubt but that there was some mistake on the subject. It had, however, been settled in a Committee of that House, after hearing much evidence on the subject from many different sorts of persons, that to levy a toll every time a vehicle passed through the gates, would be the
d227Lord Lowther
228 said, the evasions were so skilful and numerous, that unless the regulations were very strictly enforced, as well as made with great discrimination, it would be impossible to levy any toll. The law said, that wheels of 6 inches in width should pay one toll, and wheels of 9 inches a less toll, because the narrow wheel does the more injury to the road. To escape the payment of the heavier toll, wheels were so made, that while they were 9 inches in breadth they only brought a surface of 3 or 4 inches into contact with the road, doing it an injury equal to a wheel of that width, and avoiding the friction of the greater surface. This was
228Mr. Frankland Lewis
 opposed the Motion, on the ground that it had been brought into Parliament by the Kennet and Avon Canal Company, in direct contravention of an agreement which that Company had entered into with the Bristol and Gloucestershire Rail-Road proprietors. He trusted that the House of Commons would not sanction such a violation of a private agreement, that ought to have been binding on both parties. The hon. Member concluded by moving that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. Hart Davis
 supported the Bill, on the ground that the undertaking would be beneficial to the public, and he denied that any such engagement had been entered into as the hon. Member supposed.Mr. Dundas
 opposed the Bill on the same ground as Mr. H. Davis. He said that it was a breach of a solemn engagement.Mr. Bright
 supported the Amendment of his hon. friend, the Member for Bristol. The question was one which affected the private business of the House, and the private rights of individuals. If the Bill were to pass, it would give the Avon and Gloucester Rail-Road Company the monopoly of the Coal markets of Bristol, which, instead of being a benefit to the town, would be an injury to all its inhabitants.Mr. Protheroe
 supported the Bill. The violation of the engagement, he said, which was made the objection to it, was nothing more than a misunderstanding between parties who had different interests. The object contemplated by the Bill was, to supply Bristol with cheap Coals, which, being a public benefit, he should vote for the Bill.Mr. R. Gordon
229 denied that the dispute was a mere squabble between Rail-Road Companies. It was, on the contrary, the breach of a most solemn engagement, and thinking that it was his duty, as a Member of that House, to en-
229Sir Thomas Lethbridge
 said, he had heard enough to be convinced that the two parties had entered into an engagement up stairs, of which the Bill was a violation. To that he thought the House ought not to give its sanction.Sir William Guise
 said, that he would be the last man in that House to give his sanction to a violation of a solemn engagement; but from the conversation he had had with the parties, he did not think that the Bill was any such violation. There were statements and counter-statements which a committee might examine, and to examine such conflicting statements was the very business of a committee. It was unheard of to oppose the second reading of a bill on such grounds. He would say, let the parties go before a committee, which would ascertain the justice or injustice of the opposition. The House heard a great deal, almost every day, against monopolies, and as far as he saw, the Bill was not intended to give one company, as was said, a monopoly of the Bristol market for Coals, but to throw open that market, which was now monopolized, to competition. The imputation against the Bill was, that it would enable one Company to under-sell another. He should certainly vote against the Amendment.Mr. Estcourt
 thought, that the engagements between individuals ought not to bind that House. He should vote for the Motion, because a committee was the only place to settle rival claims.Mr. Monck
235234233232, in presenting the Petition agreed to at a recent meeting held at the Mansion-house, on the subject of public distress, said, that the petitioners stated most correctly, that the distress had extended itself to all classes of the community. They state, "That, under the present circumstances of the country, your petitioners feel themselves called upon to represent to your honourable House the great depression and consequent distress that now exists in the mercantile, trading, manufacturing, and shipping concerns of this city and the metropolis, and which bears with peculiar severity upon the industrious and labouring classes.235234233232Mr. Alderman Waithman
 bore testimony to the good order and decorum which prevailed at the meeting in question, and to the total absence of party spirit which seemed to prevail. He also bore testimony to the distressed condition of the retail dealers of London, and having done that, he wished to proceed no further, until he heard the views of his Majesty's Government on the subject of taxation.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 would say nothing about free trade, and as to taxation, he hoped that the country might look for considerable reduction. He begged leave to be allowed to state, in reply to an observation from the hon. Member for Clare, made on a former evening, who had censured the Lord Mayor for not allowing the meeting to be held in Guildhall, that this was appropriated to the meetings of the Livery of London, and it could not be used for any other purpose without the leave of the Corporation. The Lord Mayor had only done his duty, and the hon. Member had cast an unjust reflection on a humane and honourable-minded man, who was anxious to do every thing in his power to promote the liberties of the people.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, he was unable to attend the meeting, in consequence of having to be present on a committee of that House, but he had every reason to believe, though many persons of much consideration in the city were absent, that, generally speaking, the meeting was very respectably attended; he, therefore, though not concurring fully in the statements of the petition, thought it his duty to recommend the petition to the serious consideration of the House. He could not agree with the petitioners that any portion of the distress was owing to the malconstruction of the House; and he should always be opposed to parliamentary reform.Mr. Ward
238 contended, in opposition to those who condemned free trade, that since its principles had been acted upon, our exports and imports had annually increased; that the commercial interest had been extending their dealings, and, as he took it, their profits. It was now an established maxim, that high duties acted only as a bounty upon smuggling, and so far to the injury of the revenue. The duties now levied were the maximum which
238Mr. Maberly
242241lll240239 said, he felt considerable surprise at the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, upon the petition he had had the honour to present, especially as in presenting it he had not entered into any arguments upon the matters it contained, but merely stated its allegations and among others, those respecting what was erroneously called free trade; which seemed to have aroused the hon. Member's feelings. Whatever credit he might give to his hon. friend for his public exertions, and however he might yield to him in other matters, he could not on this subject, and he must say, that his hon. friend seemed to understand very little of the principles of trade, and to be bewildered with theories of political economy. Having himself, been connected with trade forty-two years, and having been in the daily intercourse with several of the most intelligent persons in the greatest trading community in the kingdom, it could not be presumption in him in claiming to understand such subjects as well as his hon. friend, indeed it would be highly reproachful to him were it otherwise: with respect to the reiterated assertions, that the prosperity of our foreign trade was to be estimated by the quantity of goods exported and not by the value of those goods, however such assertions might pass in that House, they were so manifestly absurd, as to excite the laughter of every man acquainted with business. According to the wild theories of the political philosophers of the present day, the more of our labour we gave away to foreigners the better it was for the country. He was a friend to free trade, properly so called, he was a friend to trade upon equal terms, but in this manufactur-
242241lll240239Mr. Alderman Waithman
 explained, that his allusion was not made to the value of the exports and imports, but to their quality and quantity.Mr. Maberly
 [looking at the clock] suggested that it was time to proceed to the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply. The Order of the Day was accordingly read, and on the Motion being put,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l256255254253l252251250Regum œquabat opes animisl249248247particeps criminis,lllllllll246l245l244 rose to submit the Motion, concerning the office of Treasurer of the Navy, of which he had given notice. A very painful circumstance, he said, of a domestic nature, had almost compelled him to abstain from bringing forward his Motion, and had it not been that it would have seemed disrespectful to the House to postpone his Motion a second time, he should not have undertaken the task, which he felt he should perform imperfectly. He threw himself, however, on the indulgent favour of the House, on which he thought he might calculate, and even on its sympathy. The object of his Motion was of a painful character, and it might seem even invidious to complain of the appointment of his right hon. friend to an office—he said friend, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman, the Treasurer of the Navy, would still allow him to use that name, but when he considered the circumstances and wants of the people, and the professions made by the Government at the opening of the Session—when he considered the calls made by a suffering country, for economy and relief, and the engagements voluntarily entered into by his Majesty's Ministers, that they would make every possible saving which could be effected without detriment to the public service, he was bound to proceed. They had, by filling up the place of Treasurer of the Navy, acted inconsistently with their voluntary engagements. On this point he and his Majesty's Ministers were at issue, and he sought, by his Motion, to obtain the opinion of the House on the subject. He would first disembarrass the question of circumstances which did not belong to it. The right hon. Gentleman would first allow him to assure him that he was not actuated, in bringing forward the question, by any ill-will towards him. In common with every man who knew that right hon. Gentleman, he entertained for him a very great respect; he saw, however, a difference in
l256255254253l252251250Regum œquabat opes animisl249248247particeps criminis,lllllllll246l245l244Sir James Graham
 said, that he could not agree with the Secretary of the Admiralty that Mr. Tierney had treated the assertion in question with derision. He had understood him to admit, that the service was little more than a sinecure.Sir J. Graham
 again intimated doubts.Sir J. Graham
 did not say that it was the opinion of the Finance Committee, he only said that the matter came before the Finance Committee. He carefully avoided the line of argument which the right hon. Secretary attributed to him.Sir J. Graham
295294293292l291***"Were t'other dear charmer away;""How happy could I be with either—"290llll289à fortiori,ll288ll287animus said, before the House disposed of the proposition now submitted to its consideration, it would not be immaterial distinctly to recall to its recollection the character and principle of that proposition. It was not a Motion to reduce an excessive estimate, nor to diminish an extravagant vote, but to visit those who had made this appointment with condemnation and censure. Thus a question of justice was inseparably interwoven with a matter of policy. The House was called upon to pronounce a verdict; it was sitting, not merely in its political, but in its judicial character; and, however highly excited party feelings might be, he was certain there were few Members who would consent to pronounce that verdict without listening to the evidence, and paying due regard to the intentions of the accused. The 295294293292l291***"Were t'other dear charmer away;""How happy could I be with either—"290llll289à fortiori,ll288ll287animusMr. Peel
l presented a Petition from Norham, in the county of Durham, complaining of distress—praying for a reduction of Taxation, and an issue of Notes under the value of 5lMr. Liddell
231ll230 presented a Petition, agreed to unanimously at a public meeting at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, complaining of the Distress of the Agricultural, Commercial, and Shipping Interests. The hon. Member admitted, that the suffering in the north of England was not as great as in the south, owing principally to the determination of the Coal-owners to continue giving employment to the people, though at a greatly diminished rate of profit. Nevertheless, the state-
231ll230Mr. Liddell
 said, that many of the regulations adopted by the commissioners, bore hard upon the public; wheels of Clinches paid a double toll, but if they were 65/16 inches, they paid only a single toll.Mr. C. Calvert
243 thought this an exceedingly proper opportunity to explain, that the worthy Alderman's allusions, strong as they were, could not apply to a re-
243Mr. O'Connell
sd said, that the public was, undoubtedly, much indebted to the noble Lord for the trouble he had taken on the subject, but still, he must say, that the noble Lord had given no answer to the complaint made by his hon. friend, that tolls were taken on carts and coal-waggons every time they passed through the gates. A waggon which formerly paid 6sdMr. E. Davenport
 said, that after having heard the whole case, he could not support a motion which implied a censure upon Ministers who, he admitted, had done much in the way of reduction; at the same time he admitted that a more economical course might be adopted. They were going on in extravagance which ought to be checked, and he would state his opinions on the subject when they came to discuss the Navy Estimates.Mr. Labouchere
262261lllllllll observed, that the allusion which the hon. Baronet had made to him was rather flattering to his vanity. All that he had to do to secure the approbation of the hon. Baronet was to reconcile the vote which he intended to give that night with the speech which he made in 1822; a task of by no means difficult performance. The proposition in 1822 was to make the salary of the President of the Board of Trade, then held by his risiht hon. friend the Member for Liverpool, an office of importance, giving its holder a seat in the Cabinet, the salary of which was then only 2,000262261lllllllllMr. Calcraft
265l264 called the attention of the House to the very extraordinary difference between the reasoning of the hon. Member for Cumberland and that of the noble Lord who had just sat down, and the still more extraordinary roads by which, though they differed most diametrically in their premises, they had both jumped to the same conclusion. The hon. Member for Cumberland asserted that the office of Treasurer of the Navy was not a sinecure, and that it ought not to be abolished, and he argued that it ought to be annexed to
265l264Mr. Croker
 admitted that Mr. Tierney had said that this office did not take up much of his time when he held it. That was undoubtedly true; but the hon. Member for Cumberland should have read Mr. Tierney's speech onwards. "I admit," said Mr. Tierney, "that a short portion of my time every day sufficed for the duties of that office; but," he added, "since my time, other important duties have been added to the office."Mr. Croker
 said, that he was not charging this misrepresentation on the hon. Baronet, but on the hon. Member for Montrose, and his opinion as to the Paymaster of the Navy.Mr. Croker
ibid. p.l269lllllll268lllllll267lloud cheers from the Opposition benchesl266***.—Well, then, to convince the hon. Baronet, he would read the words attributed to Mr. Tierney—"When he held the office the business was not so great as to occupy the whole of his time, though he did attend for some time every day, but since then, the business, he understood, was considerably increased."ibid. p.l269lllllll268lllllll267lloud cheers from the Opposition benchesl266***Mr. Croker
 was glad to hear the noble Lord put his argument upon that footing; but he certainly had not so understood it before.Mr. Croker
270 replied, the inquiry had been made by Government. He did not know what inquiry the Finance Committee might have made into it, because it so happened that he was placed in rather an odd situation as to the proceedings of that Committee. The House had received from that Committee, which was appointed to inquire into, and to state its opinions on, certain matters referred to it, one Report. The world had been told, however, by an hon. Baronet (in a pamphlet) that there was, somewhere, probably in the archives of the House, a body of evidence which he might pick out, to which he might give a tongue, and which he might afterwards call the opinions of the Finance Committee. To such an opinion, however, he would distinctly and explicitly say "No." He denied the right of any hon. Member to assume any thing as the opinion of the Finance Committee but what was contained in its Report; and he would just furnish the House with a proof how necessary it was, that they should attend to the Report of the Finance Committee, and not to the gloss which the hon. Member placed on the evidence taken before it. The hon. Member had quoted the evidence of a gallant officer behind him, as having been given against the office. Now the evidence of his gallant friend was decidedly in favour of the appointment which had been recently made; and he would even go so far as to say, that it was in consequence of that evidence
270Mr. Croker
 said, that dining the twenty years in which he had enjoyed the honour of a seat in Parliament, he had never before witnessed so admirable a specimen of a disorderly call to Order. He thought that his right hon. friend and himself had sat together in Parliament for nearly the same time; and he would appeal to his right hon. friend's calmer judgment, to say whether he deserved the interruption which he had just received. He had paid every attention to the course which this debate had taken, and he was at a loss to conceive why he was to be prevented from speaking of the office of Paymaster of the Navy, in reply to the proposition of the hon. Member for Cumberland, who wished to annex it to that of Treasurer.Mr. Croker
"dum tacet clamat,"271 was now sure that his right hon. friend's feeling of the force of his argument had got the better of his personal regard, otherwise he was quite confident that his right hon. friend would not have interrupted him. To return, however, to his argument. He had shown, first of all, that it had never been recommended by any Finance Committee to abolish this office; and secondly, that if it was abolished, it would be a tedious and a difficult task to consign the duties of it to a subordinate officer, who was at present unacquainted with them. He did not, however, lay any weight upon that point, except as an answer to what had been called
"dum tacet clamat,"271Mr. Croker
, interrupting the right hon. Gentleman said, 'but not by the House.'Mr. Hume
237sddd said, he agreed with the petitioners that the House, as at present constituted, was not the actual representation of the public or of its mind; but he should, notwithstanding, be very sorry to let several of their statements go forth to the public as though they were the echo of, or in unison with, the sentiments of that party in the House with whom he generally acted. The burthen of this petition, and the continued burthen of the hon. Alderman's speeches, who, no doubt, had a great hand in the composition of this petition, and a number of others like it, was, that export prices had experienced depreciation sixty or seventy per cent. This was echoed back again from other parts of the kingdom; the hon. Alderman and his supporters all the while forgetting that the raw commodity, out of which these articles were manufactured, had fallen to a third, or even in some instances, to a fourth part of their former prices. The cost of cotton had fallen from 150 to 200 per cent. If only three-fourths, then, of our exports consisted of cotton, the merchant, manufacturer, and exporter, must put the difference between this depreciation and the depreciation of sixty or seventy per cent on the price of the wrought article into their pockets. Thus on one article the total depreciation was accounted for without any loss whatever to the weaver. Taking, however, the average fall of price on all manufactured articles as equal to one half, still the depreciation of price on the raw material was so much greater, that the manufacturer or merchant must always be putting into his pocket a profit on the transactions between this and other countries importing our goods. Besides, when cottons rose, as they did, from 6237sdddMr. Hume
286llll285lllll said, that Gentlemen who were not present at the commencement of the debate might be led away from the right question, so much had it been departed from in the course of the discussion. Government, on the 12th of February, had voluntarily submitted to the House the following Resolution, "that it is the opinion of this House, that, in all the establishments of the country, every saving ought to be made which can be made without violation of existing engagements, or injury to the public service." Three days afterwards the present Treasurer of the Navy vacated his seat in that House, having then been appointed to that situation. The hon. Baronet had brought forward this Motion in consequence of that appointment, for it was an open violation of the resolution which the Ministers had proposed, and to which they had made the House pledge its faith to the country. Had the Finance Committee come to any resolution upon the Pay Office, it would have been impossible, from the evidence before it, that it could have done otherwise than recommend the consolidation of all the Pay Offices; to affect ignorance of what would have been the Resolution of that Committee, when the whole of the evidence was on the Table of the House, was either hypocrisy, or it was sneering at the House. The question, however, before the House was, had Ministers, in this appointment, acted with due attention to the economy which they acknowledged to be essential, and which they had pledged themselves, and made the King pledge himself, to observe? The country had now to pay a charge of 2,920286llll285lllllMr. Hume
 would not enter into all the causes of the distress, but he could not help observing, that they might thank the principles of free trade, as they were called, for much of their sufferings. He admitted that the distress in Northumberland was not so great as in other counties, still it demanded attention. Government, he thought, was surely bound to introduce some measure calculated to relieve the sufferings of the people.Mr. Bell
 said, that either of the plans proposed would be injudicious. The Treasurership of the Navy was such an important office, that it required the undivided attention of one person, and it had so much responsibility, that its duties could not be performed by the Paymaster. He should oppose the Motion, which could not be carried into effect without detriment to the public service.Mr. Keith Douglas
281l280Were t'other dear charmer away.""How happy could I be with either,279278ibid. p277ll276275ex officio274ibid. p273 said, he felt called upon to make a few observations on this subject, the more especially as he was the only Member of the House now present, who had held, for any considerable time, the office of Treasurer of the Navy jointly with that of President of the Board of Trade. He owned that he should have been glad to have been spared this discussion, for he did not feel much taste for any question in which the discussion of a public matter was mixed up with considerations of a private nature. The present was a discussion of that mixed description; but if it had been purely a question of a personal kind, he should have been the first to do justice to the ability, zeal, and industry, of the present Treasurer of the Navy; he should have been anxious to acknowledge that that right honourable Gentleman was not only competent to perform the duties of the office, but that he was also fully competent to the performance of duties of a much higher kind. But the House could not look at this question with reference to individual claims or individual merits—it was a public question, and only as a public question should he treat it. His Majesty's Ministers had unfortunately placed the House under the necessity of deciding on it as a public question, and he regretted that it was so, considering it to be imprudent in the Government to compel the House to come to any decision on the subject. The Members of that House had no alternative. If they wished to protect them-selves in public opinion—if they did not wish that the resolution they had adopted, and that Government themselves had recommended for their adoption, should be
281l280Were t'other dear charmer away.""How happy could I be with either,279278ibid. p277ll276275ex officio274ibid. p273Mr. Huskisson
hear282 here interrupted the gallant officer. He stated, that the gallant officer was either totally mistaken, or
hear282Mr. Huskisson
 hoped, that he might be allowed to offer himself in explanation to the House, after such very great ignorance had been imputed to him by the gallant officer. He might at least be allowed to show, that he really did know the ABC of the office he had filled. He had been charged with talking of checks, when, in point of fact, the Paymaster had not the power to draw checks. The balance in the Bank of England stood in the names of the Treasurer and Paymaster of the Navy. The Paymaster, under the power of attorney from the Treasurer, was authorized to draw out all that balance, and which, in fact, he did. These drafts were not in the common form of a banker's check, but they were drawn in the following words:—" From the balance standing in the name of the Treasurer of his Majesty's Navy, write off (so many thousand pounds) to the Cashier of the Allotments, to the Cashier of the Pay Branch, or to the Cashier of the Victualling Branch," and so on. This "Write-off" was as much an imperative command to pay the money as if it were a common banker's check, only he had not before made the distinction between them, because he had no wish to trouble the House with a technical explanation. But it had been said, that the Paymaster might go away from his office for a week.Mr. Huskisson
284lll.—Well, the gallant officer, at least, said for two or three days. Documents came every day for the Paymaster to examine and sign. To-day there might be an account of 100,000284lllMr. Huskisson
260l259llex officio258257 said, that having already, on the occasion of opening the Navy Estimates to the House, entered into an explanation of the reasons which had induced his Majesty's Ministers to fill up, as they had done, the vacancy that had occurred in the office of Treasurer of the Navy, he should not feel it necessary at present to go at any length into that subject. He should endeavour, however, to follow the hon. Baronet through some of
260l259llex officio258257Sir George Clerk
.—I never said any such a thing.Sir George Cockburn
283la groanhear, hearll.—The Paymaster never drew a single shilling—he found no security—he was no public accountant. He had no command of the public money, except the power of making these Writes-off, to pay perhaps 20,000283la groanhear, hearllSir George Cockburn
 said, that attaching the office of President of the Navy with that of the Board of Trade had always, in his opinion, been improper, and he was now confirmed in that opinion by all that had fallen from his right hon. friend who had just sat down. His right honourable friend's talents were universally acknowledged, and it was equally well known that he was accustomed to business; and, therefore, it might be reasonably supposed that he was likely to have looked into details, and to have made himself well acquainted with the office of which he had just been speaking; but, so far from this, the right hon. Gentleman had clearly shown that he knew nothing whatever of the subject. Hon. Members might laugh if they pleased; but he would prove that his right hon. friend was totally unacquainted with the details and the duties of the office upon which he had been making an attempt to enlighten the House. When his hon. friend said, that he was the only person then in that House who had ever filled the office of Treasurer of the Navy, the House would learn greatly to its surprise, that his right hon. friend knew nothing of the subject. First his right honourable friend had told the House, that the Paymaster of the Navy was obliged to attend constantly at his office; that he was a responsible person, and that he had the checks to sign for many millions that passed through his hands. Would the House believe it possible, that the Paymaster of the Navy never had been allowed to draw one single check? The Paymaster could not draw one single shilling out of the Bank of England in virtue of his office.Sir George Cockburn
 said, that he believed it to be impossible for the present system to go on without such a reduction of taxes as would raise the wages of labour and the profit on capital. He had no doubt the opinion which he had stated would be forced upon the attention of ministers and the legislature. The hon. Member for Montrose had endeavoured to maintain that no actual decrease had taken place in the value of our exports, inasmuch as a greater reduction had taken place as to the cost of the raw materials, which we exported. But he would ask the hon. Member, whether he for one would maintain that the price of exports was a criterion of the real condition of a country, at least, of the profits of the exporter. He could speak from experience, and say it was not; for he had exported commodities which had cost hundreds of thousands of pounds, on which he had not received more than sixty per cent of the value in return. In fact, parties were compelled to export. The manufacturers were compelled to keep their machinery in motion, and producing more than was wanted at home, they were compelled to export. Formerly, the English merchant only exported on order, now he exported on the chance of finding a market.Mr. Robinson
 here rose to Order. The question before the House was not a question as to the abolition of the Paymaster of the Navy—[the cries of "Order" which followed this interruption, prevented the hon. Baronet from completing his sentence, and compelled him to resume his seat.]Sir G. Warrender
 said, that he would support the Motion, because he considered it acting up to the resolution lately adopted by the House.Sir George Warrender
ll272 stated, in explanation, that he had never proposed to abolish the office of Treasurer of the Navy; he had only proposed to consolidate it with that of the Paymaster, and to make that saving immediately which the Government pro-
ll272Lord Howick
l263 observed, that any doubt which he might have entertained of the expediency of his hon. friend's Motion would have been entirely removed by what had fallen from the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Clerk). To the question—why not make the Paymaster of the Navy perform the duties of the Treasurer? the answer of the hon. Baronet was, that there were technical difficulties in the way; but surely those might easily be removed by an Act of Parliament. The hon. Baronet said, that it was necessary to have a person of experience in the office of Treasurer of the Navy; the fact being that the hon. Gentleman who had been appointed to that office could not possibly know any thing of its duties. It would have been a much better course, to have made an effective deputy the principal, and have saved the salary of the latter. It was not merely to the expense, however, to which he objected. There was another important point. His hon. friend near him (Sir H. Parnell), in the able work which he had recently published,
l263Lord Howick
301 said, that though the distress in Scotland was not as great as that in England, yet there was great suffering amongst the agricultural classes there. The price of cattle was so low,—he spoke chiefly of the county of Kircud-bright,—that people could not get the price for them which they themselves gave last year, and he believed the same might be said of other counties. The result was, that the farmers could not pay their rents except out of their capital, and the distress of the lower classes, though they had hitherto done pretty well, were now suffering extremely. The only remedy
301Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
327326325324l323lll322ssssds321l320llllllllll319lllllllllll318lllll317llll316llllll315l314ll313312311310cheers309308307lll306llllad valoreml305llllllllll304303302 having moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee to consider the several Acts relating to the Excise, and the Speaker having accordingly left the Chair, the right hon. Gentleman proceeded to address the Committee as follows:—I avail myself of the opportunity afforded on the present occasion, of bringing thus early before the House the views of his Majesty's Government respecting the financial concerns of the country, and I do so, not more in deference to the wishes expressed by this House, than in compliance with my own sense of what is due in justice and in pro-
327326325324l323lll322ssssds321l320llllllllll319lllllllllll318lllll317llll316llllll315l314ll313312311310cheers309308307lll306llllad valoreml305llllllllll304303302The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llll hoped the Committee and the hon. Member would pardon him for offering a very few words in explanation of this part of his statement. He did not quite agree in the calculation put forth by the hon. Member for Callington as the result of his statements. When the hon. Gentleman said that he calculated the Spirit Duties at 330,000llllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
344bona fidellll, said, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated to the House that there had been a surplus revenue of 2,700,000344bona fidellll,Mr. Maberly
lldssssssds345 could repose, he said, some confidence in the promises held out to the House by the right hon. Gentleman, because he had not, like his predecessors, attempted to mystify the subject, and he was not ashamed of acknowledging the situation of the country, when he held out the hope of affording it relief. He well knew that the right hon. Gentleman had a great many conflicting interests to satisfy, but considering all parts of the subject, he must be excused for saying, that he had expected that the right hon. Gentleman would have been able to afford some little relief to the most suffering of all interests—the West-India interests,
lldssssssds345Mr. Bernal
ss347dss agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that no interest required relief more than the West-India proprietors. However, he did not see how the Chancellor of the Exchequer could well carry reduction of taxation farther than he proposed at present, consistently with maintaining our existing establishments. He concurred with the hon. Member for Aberdeen in recommending to Government and the House to consider those taxes which pressed most heavily on the labouring, agricultural, and manufacturing classes. The time was arrived when we must alter our system of taxation; and he was glad to hear that the Government had not entirely lost sight of the possibility of doing so. He was aware that many objections were entertained against a Property-tax, but believed it would be soon thought that a tax upon capital was the only effectual way of meeting the emergency. The labouring classes were the great consumers, and we must enable them to consume more largely than they did at present. The reasons why they were not able to consume more at present were obvious, they were placed in competition with the cheap labour of foreign countries, with steam and machinery. Notwithstanding the ridicule attached to the declaration of an illustrious person in another place, he must say, he connected the pressure upon the working classes in a great degree with the improvements in machinery. He knew the value of machinery practically, and was satisfied that the more we applied it the more should we increase the wealth and resources of the country; but we ought to enable the labouring classes to compete with machinery, by finding them adequate employment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer expected a considerable increase to the Revenue, in consequence of a consolidation and equalization of the Stampacts. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would be borne out in his anticipation. He might here allude to the stamp duties on policies of marine assurances. Upon an insurance which cost 5ss347dssMr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that he should take the sense of the House upon the question whether it was fit that such a deception should be practised as this Bill endeavoured to accomplish. He moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time on this day six months.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that he should vote against the Bill.Mr. Hume
 gave notice, as he saw the Attorney General in his place, that, on a future day, he would move for copies of the Judge's Notes, and of the indictment, on a trial for perjury and bribery at the election for Stock-bridge.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 thought half a loaf better than no bread, and therefore should support the Bill by his vote, as he could obtain nothing more.Sir R. Wilson
 reminded the honourable and gallant Member for Southwark, that if this Bill were defeated another trial might yet be made to transfer the franchise to Birmingham.Mr. Tennyson
360Question was here called359358357, on the question that the Bill do pass, rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move an additional clause to the Bill. His object, he said, was to secure to the Hundred of Bassetlaw the power to vote for Representatives by ballot, and he felt so strongly the vast importance and inherent value of the plan, that he feared its loss would be attributable chiefly to the want of talent in its advocate. Whatever might be the fate of his Amendment this night, he had so much reliance on the plain common sense and strong understanding of the people of this country, that he was satisfied every fresh discussion would be followed by fresh proselytes, until at length the conviction out of doors would make its due impression within. The avowed ostensible object of this Bill was to prevent bribery and corruption in the borough of East Retford, and the way in which that was proposed to be effected was, by in-creasing the number of voters. He did not see how such a remedy would cure the acknowledged evil which existed in this instance, and if such a remedy were efficient, he should certainly like to see the standard ascertained as to the given number of voters which would prevent bribery and corruption in boroughs of this description. Now he (Mr. O'Connell) would propose a really efficient measure for preventing bribery and corruption for the future in this borough. He should propose that the poll be taken by ballot,
360Question was here called359358357Mr. O'Connell
361 said, that he seconded the Motion with great pleasure, because no questions had occupied more time, nor any more uselessly, than those in which the House endeavoured to punish individuals for corrupt practices at elections. He therefore conceived that any mode which enabled a man to give a vote free from the influence of a superior, or from direct bribery, was very desirable. He thought the plan now proposed would be more likely than any other to effect what he had heard Members in that House again and again desire to see, namely, every voter able to vote as he pleased. It would effect that which repeated Acts of Parliament had been unequal to achieve. Since he had had a seat in that House, he had seen frequent instances of vote by ballot, and what was that done for, except to put an end to influence? but unfortunately from the state of that House it did not answer the end proposed; for lists were prepared and put into the hands of individuals who were obliged to give the names on those lists as of their own choice. In large bodies of voters there would be a different result. The plan of voting by ballot was now almost universal. In the United States 250,000 people voted by ballot, without the slightest confusion, and every officer in the State was elected by ballot. It was said that ballot was a sneaking mode of expressing a man's opinions; but he would ask, whether there was anything in the character of the people of the United States that shewed ballot to be the proof of a sneaking or cowardly spirit? He would say exactly the reverse. Neither did he think that the charge of hypocrisy could be truly brought against this mode of voting, for in that respect the other was much worse. The practice of voting by ballot was adopted by all clubs. If what had been stated by the opponents of the measure was true, it would be more manly in the clubs to vote openly, but they did not; and it should be recollected that the members of the clubs were gentlemen, while electors, in general, were in a different situation, and were by no means so independent in their circumstances. No
361Mr. Hume
viva voce362 observed, that every one who looked to the signs of the times must see that the cause of reform had assumed a different aspect from heretofore. The opinion that reform was necessary was no longer a clamour occasioned by temporary distress—it was the settled conviction of intelligent men. The subject deserved, therefore, to be fairly examined by the House. He gave the hon. and learned Member for Clare full credit for sincerity in bringing forward his proposition; and he hoped that hon. Member would give him the same credit for sincere motives in opposing it. The proposition was of a most extensive character. The hon. and learned Member admitted that it was an innovation, and intended as an initiative of a total change in the elective franchise: but there was something in the concealment and muffling up, which the system of ballot proposed, repulsive to his feelings, contrary to the English character, and to that publicity which every elector ought to be desirous of seeking. It was a system suited to a peculiar class of people, and to juniors in the representative system; and an experiment to try how far a nation was adapted to receive such a system. We talked of the march of intellect, but this was a retrograde march,—we were going backward; and any foreigner who heard such a proposition would consider that its adoption would be a proof of our degradation. The circumstances of France and of America were totally different from ours; but he had conversed with North Americans, persons whoso opinions were entitled
viva voce362Sir R. Wilson
Question," "Question." observed, that all political measures should lead to good Government, and the question was, whether this measure would or would not lead to such an object. If he had any objection to the adoption of the ballot in Bassetlaw, it was because the number of voters was not so great as might be wished; for the fittest places for this measure were those where there were great numbers of voters. There was no place where intimidation and influence were carried to a greater pitch than in London; and there the ballot would be beneficial. There were some places, therefore, where the ballot would be proper,—others where it would be improper. He meant, however, to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Clare. ["Question," "Question."Mr. Warburton
363 said, he could assure the tempestuous part of the House, that he would agitate them but for a very few moments. His opinion was generally in favour of reform; and before he voted, he wished to explain the reasons why he did not support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Clare. He had listened to the hon. Member, and understood the object of his proposition to be, to check and stifle corruption in individuals. Then was this the best mode? He thought not. He thought that the best and only effectual mode of preventing corruption was, to place the representative in the same situation in that House as the electors at the hustings, and oblige Members to swear at the bar that they had not offered a bribe. This was the only effectual remedy; though he was the only Member the other night who divided with the hon. Member for Beverley (Mr. Stewart) on a Motion for this object. The hon. and learned Member had said
363Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that he should vote for the Motion of his hon. and learned! friend the Member for Clare, but for reasons diametrically opposite to those he had assigned.Mr. Jephson
 said, he should vote for the election by ballot, as it appeared to him to be the only course by which they could secure free election in the borough of East Retford, now that it was joined with the hundred of Bassetlaw.Mr. W. Smith
364 thought that the present was not a fit time for interfering with the
364Mr. Benett
pro forma, recommended that the Bill should be then read a second time, pro forma,Lord Althorp
 remarked, that no opposition on any side would be offered to the removal of the market; but he apprehended that the place to which it was intended to remove it would be found inconvenient to numbers, and the Bill might, on that account, create some dissatisfaction.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he should take the present opportunity to ask two questions of the noble Lord who presided over the department of Woods and Forests. The first related to the proposed carriage-road which it was expected would have been opened in St. James's Park from Pimlico to Storey's Gate. The improvement was generally understood to have been agreed upon and arranged, when the ground was taken in for the erection of the new palace; but there was at present no appearance of any preparation for opening such a road. He therefore wished to know, whether the design had been abandoned. The second question was on a subject no less interesting to many of his constituents, and likewise related to another improvement in the same Park, which there was hitherto no prospect of being carried into effect. It had been understood, that after the pulling down of Carlton-house a communication would have been made from Waterloo Place into St. James's Park by means of two openings through the newly-erected terrace; but if he might judge from the progress which the work had already made towards completion, that expectation was not destined to be realized. He wished, however, to learn from the noble Lord whether it were determined that any such openings should be made.Mr. Hobhouse
 regretted he could not gratify the hon. Member by his answer concerning the passage which he had just mentioned, as no public communication into the Park would be made through the terrace at the end of Waterloo Place; nor would such a measure be authorized by the Minutes already submitted to the House on the 18th of January 1827. With respect to the road alluded to, he was happy to inform the hon. Gentleman that it would be opened very soon, and he would have the satisfaction, in a very short time, of seeing it ready for the accommodation of the inhabitants.Lord Lowther
 objected to the additional duty on Whiskey. He thought it would hold out an inducement to illicit distillation in the Highlands and in Ireland. It would also encourage smuggling on the borders of England and Scotland. The Government could not lay an additional shilling duty on Corn-spirits in Ireland and Scotland, and leaving, as it did, a great difference between the duties levied in the different countries, it encouraged smuggling. If the additional duty on Spirits were necessary to prevent the people drinking so much, why should it not be extended to spirits made in Scotland?Mr. Liddel
353lbona fidel begged leave to say one word in explanation of a point which had been referred to by the hon. Member for Callington, and subsequently by the right hon. Member for Liverpool. The hon. Member seemed to intimate to the House, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) contemplated that in 1831 he should have no surplus of income over expenditure. He must have expressed himself very differently to what he had intended, if he had said any thing to warrant such an inference. His line of argument was, that though he could not predict that that surplus would be 3,000,000353lbona fidelThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the hon. Gentleman was putting the matter in a form in which it. was not fair to represent it to the House. He only chose to take the figures on one side, while he forbade him to take those on the oilier. The Estimate of the Revenue for 1831 was a matter of fair calculation, and it might be expected would yield as much, or more, than that of preceding years.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll was sorry if he had misconceived the expression of the right hon. Gentleman to the degree he had stated, and should feel much obliged to him, as he was sure would the House at large, if he would show, by way of figures, how far he was misrepresented, and how far he should be borne out in his then explanation of the drift of his meaning. Did the right hon. Gentleman found his anticipation of the amount, 1,500,000llMr. Baring
336335‡ Ib, p. 1295. §Ib.l334† lb. p. 1315.**l*333lll332ll331† lb, 1322.**330*329 said, they were then come to this, that, after all that had been said of a surplus of Revenue over Expenditure, in order to supply the demands of the Sinking Fund, all surplus for that purpose was now disposed of, and it was reserved for the right hon. Gentleman to undo all
336335‡ Ib, p. 1295. §Ib.l334† lb. p. 1315.**l*333lll332ll331† lb, 1322.**330*329Mr. Baring
lllll328ll said, that no Minister ever came down to that House to declare his intention to relieve the burthens of the people under circumstances which required such an announcement more strongly than those which attended the right hon. Gentleman, and that no Chancellor ever did so without being hailed by the applause of the House and the people. He was sorry to say, however, that he did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in his opinion, that the distress was much diminished; and although he rejoiced, in common with the House, at the prospect of a reduction of taxation, he could not give his unqualified assent to some of the statements of the right hon. Gentleman, nor to the course which he intimated his intention to adopt with reference to the public funds. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had not stated very clearly the supplies from which he intended to draw the means of these reductions, nor the situation of the public income on which he proposed that his reductions should operate. The right hon. Gentleman proposed reductions of taxation to the extent of 3,400,000lllll328llMr. Alexander Baring
343ll rose to confirm the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the saving to be effected to the public by the reduction of the Beer-tax. He was quite satisfied that not only would the country receive the benefit of a remission of 3,000,000343llMr. C. Barclay
355llllllllllll354l begged leave, as one who was, in the best sense of the term, a representative of the people, to express on their part his satisfaction at the proposed abolition of duty on three of the articles of life which were chiefly consumed by the industrious poor. He could not augur the extensive benefits which some hon. Members seemed to expect would follow from those reductions, nor from the giving up 3,000,000355llllllllllll354lMr. D. W. Harvey
 said, it was a proof of the distress of the country when a Minister of the Crown made a boast of one landholder in Perth receiving his rents.Mr. E. Davenport
 presented a Petition from the noblemen, freeholders, &c. of Dumbartonshire, complaining of Distress, and praying for Relief by reduction of Taxation. The hon. Member said, that though he did not admit the country to be in that state of distress which some hon. Members thought, and in this he agreed with the petitioners, yet it undoubtedly was suffering to a considerable extent. He would not inquire into the causes of that distress, but much of it he thought was to be attributed to the alteration in the currency. He did not wish to have another alteration, but if Parliament were to institute an inquiry, it would at least learn to what extent its own measures had caused the evils, and it might find some means of alleviating them. This was the view of the petitioners, who also expressed their confidence in the Government. Ministers had already evinced a disposition to afford relief: and he had every hope that the statement which they were about to hear from the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would prove that still more effectual measures of relief were in contemplation.Mr. John Campbell
342llllllllllll341lllllllll340llll339 was anxious to say a few words, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Callington, because he thought that that hon. Gentleman had taken a very unfair view of the statement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and had expressed fears with respect to the injury that statement was calculated to effect on public credit, which fears existed, he believed, in no other mind but that of the hon. Gentleman. If there were any subject which less than any other he should have expected to be agitated that evening, it was the Sinking Fund; a topic which had long been dead and buried.
342llllllllllll341lllllllll340llll339Mr. Hume
 inquired whether the Bill would cost the country any additional expense, and whether it was to be expected that the affairs into which these Commissions were instituted to inquire, would over be arranged. In particular he wished to observe, that the Carnatic Commissioners had sat during two or three generations, and it was high time that their inquiries, unless the Commission were to be eternal, should be brought to a close.Mr. Hume
ds300, in presenting a Petition from persons dealing in Tobacco in Bristol, praying for the reduction of the duties on Tobacco, observed that he could not avoid expressing his surprise, that these duties should have been suffered to continue so long. The evils they inflicted on the community were of great magnitude, for which the revenue derived from them was no compensation. The illicit trade carried on in Tobacco was enormous. No vigilance could guard against the temptation afforded by a duty that in amount was nine times the value of the article. Tobacco formed the bulk of every illicit cargo. Smuggling was almost as bad as stealing, to which it frequently led, and therefore, if it were only
ds300Mr. H. Davis
 expressed himself dissatisfied with the reduction of the Beer-tax, which might benefit a few places but would give no general relief to the country. He considered that much more general benefit would accrue from a diminution of the duty on Malt, which would be equally an advantage to the agriculturist and the consumer of Beer.Sir C. Burrell
, in reply, stated, the Bill would cause no additional expense. It was only to enable the Tanjore Commissioners to examine witnesses on oath, and continue that Commission for a further period. He could inform the hon. Member, that the Carnatic Commissioners had presented their last report, and that the whole business of that Commission was about to be brought to a close.Mr. Astell
 denied altogether that Scotland was in the distress which the hon. Member described. If wages had fallen, so had the price of the necessaries of life—if the prices of cattle had fallen, it was a relief to the farmer that wages had fallen also, and that rents had been lowered. From what he knew of Scotland he could not concur in the opinion that the agriculturists and the labourers were suffering in any extreme degree.Mr. W. Dundas
bona fide349348 was not going into the subject of the state of the country at that moment, as there was a notice of motion for to-morrow which would afford a better opportunity for entering upon such a discussion, and he intended to avail himself of it. If he rose upon this occasion, it was because he could not deny himself the gratification of expressing his approbation of the statement made by his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He admitted, however, that the gratification which he felt at that statement was not wholly unalloyed by considerations such as those alluded to by the hon. Member for Callington. Not, however, that he thought it possible for any one to doubt, under whatever circumstances of trial or difficulty which might arise, that we should be enabled to maintain the public faith and the credit of the country untarnished. He thought, under all the existing circumstances, that the
bona fide349348Mr. Huskisson
 was surprised and sorry to hear such a statement as that of the hon. Gentleman. He could state, however, that in other counties a different state of things existed, and that in the county which he had the honour to represent (Perthshire) no such distress was known. He had received an account that day from one of the greatest landed proprietors in that county, who stated that his rents were never more regularly paid than at present. From what he had heard, he should be disposed to form a different opinion from that just expressed by the hon. Member for Kircudbright.Sir G. Murray
 followed; but all that we were able to collect of the hon. Gentleman's observations was, that nothing which he had heard from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have the effect of inducing him to relinquish his intended proposition, on Friday next, to make a more extensive reduction of those taxes, such as those on Soap, Candles, and Hides, which pressed on the productive industry of the country, and to supply any deficiency which might thereby be occasioned in the Revenue by an equitable assessment on property.Mr. Robinson
 said, that he could state as a landed proprietor of that county to which the gallant officer had alluded, that he could not get a farthing of rent, and he believed other counties in Scotland were in no better situation, though the rents had been reduced forty per cent since 1814.Sir G. Warrender
, on the part of the Western Counties, and of himself, begged to express entire satisfaction at one portion of the relief granted. He was happy to think that the satisfaction which he saw sparkling in the countenances of all around him would be soon shared by a large and worthy part of the community. The reduction was one fraught with comfort and convenience to a numerous class, and would occasion but small loss to the Revenue. The tax was one which, from his own knowledge, he could state, had caused much inconvenience and vexation in the western counties, and he was heartily glad it was removed. He also approved of the selection of the Beer and Leather Duties for reduction. The first had pressed very heavily on the lower classes; and the second had been a tax of the most vexatious and oppressive nature. He knew an instance in which a very worthy man was brought within the power of the Excise regulations, and put to considerable expense and inconvenience, in consequence of two labourers of his having, without his knowledge, tanned for themselves two aprons, value one shilling. It had been observed, that when half this tax upon leather was taken off', little benefit had resulted from it. There was an old proverb. "you should do nothing by halves;" on the faith of which he would venture to hope, that though the first experiment had been unsuccessful, the total removal of the duties would be attended with the best results.Sir T. Acland
338337 said, he took a very different view of the subject indeed from that which had been taken by his hon. friend the Member for Callington, not thinking with him that it was necessary to devote so much of our revenue to such a sinking-fund as he had described in the greater part of his speech, and rather concurring with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his present view of the subject, which certainly did not deserve to be called a breach of faith with the public creditor. The greater part of his hon. friend's observations had been directed against the reduction of the four per cents. He was sure, however, that the stockholders generally would not be at all alarmed at what had fallen from his hon. friend; and that they would not think their property rendered in the slightest degree insecure. Their condition was not in the least degree altered by the proposed arrangement, because their property was quite as secure, and as much at their command, as before, and he was at a loss to see how his hon. friend could establish the suspicions which he had cast upon the stability of the public security. It was impossible, in this free country—it was impossible in any free country, that any breach of faith, such as that of which his hon. friend appeared to entertain some apprehensions, could be effected. He did not think, therefore, that the circumstances to which his hon. friend alluded would have the effect which he anticipated from them. With respect to the rest of the propositions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he (Lord Althorp) entirely approved of them as far as they went. He highly approved of the reduction of the taxes, and especially of the reduction of the tax on Beer; which was, in his opinion, a very wise proceeding. And moreover, he would say,
338337Lord Althorp
352 was of the same opinion as the last speaker. He stated, that smuggled whiskey was consumed to a great amount in Northumberland and Cumberland. He thought it would be better to raise the duty in Scotland. This would, perhaps, increase in some degree illicit distillation in the Highlands, but the Revenue would still be collected in the Lowlands; so that on the whole, the mischief would not be so great as the increase of smuggling in
352Lord Howick
351 said, he agreed with the hon. Baronet, in thinking that the selection of the duties on Beer was not the most beneficial which could have been made. In his opinion, it would have been better to have reduced the duties on Malt; and that this would have been the most beneficial reduction for the land-owners and cultivators of the soil, no doubt could be entertained. The Beer-tax, it should be considered, was one affecting a particular class and particular districts. There were many districts (as for instance, the
351Lord Milton
 presented a Petition signed by 2,000 most respectable inhabitants of the parishes of St. Giles and St. George Bloomsbury, against the Bill' now in the House for establishing a Select Vestry in those parishes. The meeting at which this petition had been agreed to was one of the most numerous and respectable he had ever seen, and the opinions there expressed showed that the Bill did not express the sentiments of the majority of the parish. He was surprised that any hon. Member could press a bill which was so much against the feelings of the great mass of the parishioners.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the petitioners prayed against certain clauses of the Bill as well as against the principle, and on that ground, he thought, with all deference to the authority of Mr. Speaker, that the petition might be so referred.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that he had been intrusted with a similar Petition; and as it seemed not at all likely that Government would aid the petitioners in emigrating to Nova Scotia or Canada, he had recommended them to rest satisfied, and to hope all kinds of relief from the proposed abandonment of the duty on Beer.Mr. W. Horton
 said, his remark was applied to the agricultural, not the manufacturing districts.—To be printed.Mr. slancy
 observed, that Aylesbury, which ought to be one of the richest and most flourishing places in the southern parts of England, was suffering, at present, distress which had but few precedents at former periods. This, as well here as elsewhere, was, in his opinion, in a great degree attributable to the improper administration of the Poor-laws.Mr. Slaney
 said, he was sorry that he could not corroborate the pleasing statements of the last speaker, but on the contrary, as far as Nottinghamshire was concerned, he must bear his testimony to the existence of great distress; but he must, at the same time, express his thankfulness to the Government for what it had done, adding, that the people relied on his Majesty's Government, and on the wisdom of Parliament.Lord Rancliffe
 said, he also regretted that he could not confirm the hon. Member's statement. At Boston there was not employment for one-third of the population, and the distress was unexampled.Mr. Heatkcote
384 presented a Petition from Dursley, complaining of great distress, and asking for relief. Of 4,000 inhabitants, 1,500 were receiving support from the parish. The noble Lord stated his concurrence with what had fallen last night from the hon. Member for Northampton, as to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He admitted that the reduction of taxation had been judicious; but he would recommend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to revise
384Lord John Russell
 had received, during last year, a number of communications from gentlemen to whom the Maltsters had intrusted their interests. He had consented that those gentlemen should have an interview with the Commissioners of the Excise, with the intention of providing such regulations as, without injuring the Revenue, would give relief to the trade. They had come to an agreement, and a bill had been prepared accordingly, which he had not yet been able to introduce into Parliament, from the pressure of business. He would, however, lose no time in giving effect to those arrangements which, he understood, would be satisfactory to the parties concerned.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was understood to assent to the suggestion of the hon. Member.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished that the opportunity might be taken to revise the whole of the laws regulating the Maltster's business.Mr. Slaney
385 said, that he hoped, if these laws were to be altered, that they would be arranged to the satisfaction of all parties. He would take that opportunity of expressing his conviction, that the measures last night proposed by the Chan-
385Mr. Bransby Cooper
, having also a Petition to present from Dursley, took that opportunity of confirming the statement con-corning the distress in that town made by the noble Lord. Besides the 1,500 persons mentioned as receiving relief, 1,000 others were unable to contribute to their support. Of seven factories, three were entirely shut up, and two were only working one day in three. There was another town in the neighbourhood equally distressed; he doubted if there were that prosperity in the woollen manufacture mentioned by the hon. Member for Bramber, and heartily wished it were true of the distressed people of Gloucestershire. It certainly was not the case among the petitioners; for, of a population of 5,000, 3,500 were receiving relief.Mr. Estcourt
 knew that the reverse was the case in the west of England, where trade was as bad as possible. He had received, that clay, a letter from a manufacturer, stating, that it was of no use embarking capita! in business, and that he meant to withdraw from the trade as soon as he could.Mr. Dickenson
386 said, that the information he had received was of the same character; and repeated, that many parishes were in such a state that they could not possibly support their own poor, and must be assisted. He was aware that the manufactures of the country were travelling to the north, and he should be glad to learn that the workmen went with them; and that they could anywhere find employment. Whatever might be said of the improvement of trade elsewhere, he knew that there was no improvement in Gloucestershire. It was impossible that
386Mr. Cripps
 was prepared to answer the statements of the hon. Member, but he would delay doing so till the proper period.Mr. Slaney
s.d.s. Fergusson thought it would be more satisfactory to the I louse if the hon. Member for Bramber also stated that the manufacturers who were doing so much work were making adequate profits, and that the men were obtaining good wages. He knew, from a very correct source, that the wages of the manufacturer in England were not above 4s.d.s.Mr. Cutlar
383, in presenting a Petition from Boston, Lincolnshire, also complaining of distress, and signed by nearly 700 persons, stated, that since the alteration of the tax on wool, land in that neigh-
383Mr. Heathcote
 asserted, that there never was a period when the distress of the manufacturers was so great as at present.M. Fynes Clinton
389, in presenting a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Parish of Uley, in Gloucestershire, complaining of distress, and praying for a free trade in Corn, took the opportunity of stating, that he cordially concurred in the
389Sir F. Burdett
 presented a Petition from the Woollen Manufacturers of the Parish of St. Mary Magdalen, Bermondsey, one of the most populous in the county of Surrey, and once the scat of the wool trade, complaining- of the duty on Wool, and praying for its reduction. The hon. Member, after expressing a hope that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would pursue the course he had begun, and reduce more taxes next year, presented petitions from the agriculturists of several parishes, praying a reduction of the duty on Malt.Mr. Denison
, in the absence of official documents, could say nothing definitely, but he thought the report might be well founded.Lord Ashley
410d.s.409l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.408407 said, he would take that opportunity of explaining the opinion which he had expressed on the first night of their meeting in the present session, because that opinion appeared to have been misunderstood. On that night he had stated, that he was called on to perform a public duty at a period of great difficulty and distress. He did not then say that distress was found only in some places, neither had he asserted that it was universal. He left Gentlemen themselves to decide as to the degree and extent of the distress. He asserted that the distress was of a most extraordinary character—an assertion by which he would still abide; and, if the House would give him leave, he could make it appear plainly why it was, in fact, of an extraordinary character. In 1810 the Berlin and Milan decrees took place, and the distress which followed evidently arose from them. In 1816, the transition from war to peace occasioned distress. In 1819 distress was caused by the alteration in the currency. And the distress of 1826 was created by the panic which preceded it. He had therefore stated that the existing distress was one
410d.s.409l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.408407Mr. Ward
hear, hear429428427426s.s.s.s.;s.s.;s.;s.425424423422421 said, he was rejoiced to find, that by the turn the Debate had taken, he was relieved from a great part of the task he had thought he should have been required to go through; the hon. Mover had advanced but few arguments, and fewer facts of importance, and little, therefore, remained for him but to point out the litter inapplicability of the mode of inquiry suggested. The hon. Mover had refrained from informing any member of the King's Government of the course he intended to pursue, and he had prepared himself for topics he expected to be touched, but to which the hon. Mover had not adverted. It was proposed to institute an inquiry before a Committee of the whole House, into some of the most extended and difficult questions that could be imagined, including the whole policy of the Corn-laws. Such an investigation must be endless, excepting as far as it must end in disappointment. At the same time, he was extremely anxious to avoid any appearance of unwillingness to inquire into the distresses of the country, as far as they really prevailed. If the House were disposed to listen to the minute details which would be necessary for the purpose of establishing the positions for which he felt himself warranted in contending, he was prepared to show that the variations in the currency did by no means suffice to account for the present state of the agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial classes of the country. In order to es-
hear, hear429428427426s.s.s.s.;s.s.;s.;s.425424423422421Mr. Herries
 said, the object of his intended bill was merely to simplify what was intricate and obscure in the present Stamp-acts. The hon. Member would therefore, he was sure, at once see the inexpediency of departing from the usual practice of the House, by his making a statement like that which the hon. Gentleman had just asked for. He should probably move for a Committee of the whole House, and place a copy of the act in the hands of the Members, as he did not think much information could be obtained by his reading the schedule of Stamp duties.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 seconded the Amendment.Alderman Waithman
 rose, to suggest to the House the expediency of not coining to a conclusion on a question of such importance without further discussion. Many hon. Members were, as he knew, anxious to express their opinions on it; but the lateness of the hour precluded them on that occasion, and the subject was, to all intents and purposes, as yet almost untouched. He therefore should propose, "That the further consideration of the Motion before the House be adjourned till Thursday."Mr. Fergusson
, in presenting a Petition from Liecester, signed by 1500 persons complaining of distress, observed, that the proposed reduction of the Beer-duties would only be prospectively beneficial, while the distress of which the petitioners complained was presently urgent, and demanded instant relief. To shew how necessary it was that the House should do something to maintain its reputation among the people, he would mention one fact, which he lately witnessed. At a public meeting, held at Leicester, and presided over by a gentleman who was formerly its representative, it was debated whether a petition should be sent to the House of Commons, and it was argued that it was of no use to present petitions to the House, that it had not the will, if it had the power, to relieve the people, and that it had of late betrayed such a total disregard of the people's petitions that it was only a waste of time to appeal to it, which were the sentiments of a great many persons, and by that the House might see how fast it was sinking in public estimation. He did not mean to say that he shared those sentiments, but he could assure the House, that if it did not attend to the wishes and prayers of the people, they would put themselves under leaders who at least would have the appearance of attending to their wants.Mr. Otway Cave
 took that opportunity of reminding the Chancellor of the Exchequer of petitions he had frequently presented, praying that the duties on Irish and Scotch Malt might be equalized.Mr. Brownlow
 seconded the Motion.Colonel Sibthorp
Parturiunt montes, nascitur ridiculus mus.379 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Spilsby, in Lincolnshire,
Parturiunt montes, nascitur ridiculus mus.379Colonel Sibthorp
 had a motion on the list for a future evening on the subject of the abuses under the Select Vestry Act, on the discussion of which he would endeavour to demonstrate to the House the necessity to repeal that act, and to revise the present oppressive system, as far at least as the Catholics and Protestant Dissenters were concerned, of Church-rates.Mr. O'Connell
 would, on the occasion to which he had just alluded, quote at least thirty similar cases, and at least fifty parishes in which the Protestants were not to the Catholic population as ten to twenty, but sometimes as six to 3,000 or 4,000, and yet the latter were compelled to support the Church establishment of the small minority.Mr. O'Connell
 in presenting a Petition from the Weavers of King's County, Dublin, complaining of Distress, and praying that the importation of English goods into Ireland might be charged with a duty, and either to abrogate the Poor-laws in England, or introduce them into Ireland, observed, that he could not concur in the prayer of the petition. He was an advocate for free trade, and could not, therefore, ask for a tax on English goods to prevent them being imported into Ireland; nor could he, while he heard Gentlemen around him complaining so much of the Poor-laws in England, wish that they might, be introduced into Ireland. That country had miseries enough of its own without adding to them the degradation of making the whole labouring population dependent on parish overseers.Mr. O'Connell
402d.d.d.401400l.s.s.s.399d.s.l.l.l.398l.l.397396a laugh395a laugh394hear393392, in bringing under the consideration of the House a motion for a Committee to inquire into the Distressed State of the Country at the present moment, expressed a determination not to shrink from the task he had imposed on himself, although the statement elicited from the Chancellor of the Exchequer
402d.d.d.401400l.s.s.s.399d.s.l.l.l.398l.l.397396a laugh395a laugh394hear393392Mr. Edward D. Davenport
 in presenting similar Petitions from certain Colliers in Staffordshire, from Wolverhampton, and from Uley, Gloucestershire, said, to-morrow, he had no doubt, he should be able to refute the opinion of the hon. Member for Mont-rose. The hon. Member also presented a Petition from the Liberties of Lington and Lane-end. The petitioners complained of Distress, and prayed for Relief. There was, however, one thing in their petition which he could not pass over in silence. The petitioners expressed their high sense of the patriotism and virtue of the Marquis Camden, in devoting so large a portion of the emoluments of his office to the public services, and regretted that an example so noble and so beneficial had not been generally followed. It formed, in their opinion, as it must, indeed, in the opinion of all who considered its importance, and the time in which it was offered, a rare tribute of public spirit and private virtue. The hon. Member added, that he would, at the same time, express the satisfaction he felt at the statements made last night by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. By removing the tax on beer, which was, in fact, a tax on barley, the agriculturist would be relieved.Mr. Littleton
 presented a Petition from Ampney, Staffordshire, against paying Labourers' Wages in Goods instead of Money. The petition was agreed to at a large public meeting, and signed by 9,000 persons, and among them there was not one mark's-man.Mr. Littleton
, as a party to the arrangement, hoped that the Bill would soon be introduced. He had lately seen several Maltsters on the subject, who complained very much of these restrictions, but though he wished the Bill to pass as soon as possible, he hoped that it would be printed and circulated some time before it was passed through that House. He wished that the parties interested in it should have an opportunity of examining it before it became a law.Mr. Portman
 considered the case of the present petitioners to be one without a parallel in Ireland, and therefore as one which should not be made the occasion of a sweeping censure on the church establishment of Ireland.Mr. G. Moore
390 presented a Petition from John Goodwin, of St. Ives, in the county of Huntingdon, complaining that he had been refused a license for the retail of exciseable liquors, and that his appeal to the Quarter Sessions had given him no redress; he therefore prayed against the continuance of a monopoly in the sale of Beer, and also against the existence of this arbitrary power. The hon. Member said, he would only observe, that the mode of appeal was little better than a mockery; being an appeal from the magistrates at their own
390Lord Nugent
381 ascribed the existing distress to the improvidence which had been manifested at the time of high prices, during which the labourers were not given wages in just proportion to the price of the produce received by their employers. Some hon. Members had expressed an
381Lord Nugent
 replied, that such a suggestion would have come with a better grace from any other hon. Member than from him.Lord Nugent
 presented a Petition, with the same prayer, from Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, which also prayed for Parliamentary Reform. He would say nothing of distress in other places, but he could venture to assert that in Buckinghamshire it was very severe. The graziers and dairy farmers there were almost ruined, and if they paid rent at all, it was really paid out of their capital, for they were making no profit. The price at which they could sell their commodities did not pay for the expense of producing them. The petitioners did not pretend to assign the cause for their distress, they left that to the House, and they looked to its wisdom to obtain relief. The noble Lord expressed his confidence that the remission of taxes announced last night would be received with the greatest joy in the country, and that the people would feel grateful for the manner in which Parliament began to sympathise with their distresses The petitioners did not desire to see a return of famine prices, but they desired a further reduction of taxation. He did not think that could take place without also reducing our establishments, and it became with him a serious question how long they could be maintained at their present extent. The petitioners also prayed for a reform in Parliament on the fair principle, that as the House held the purse of the people, its Members ought to be chosen by them.Lord Nugent
431 wished to know from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he intended to submit to the House his statement of the tendency and details of his intended bill respecting Stamps. He hoped that time would be afforded between the delivery of that state-
431Mr. Bright
 thought the hon. Member for Bramber's statements were contradicted by the Petitions of the people then lying on the Table of the House. The hon. Member being without constituents, took it on himself to represent an unrepresented place. He had always a letter or two in his pocket from some town which had no representative to contradict his allegations. Whatever that hon. Member might say, he knew that turn which way he would, he heard complaints of distress sufficient to warrant him in saying, that the hon. Member's statements were not correct as a representation of the general state of the country.General Gascoyne
, in presenting Petitions from the Protestant Dissenters assembling in Eagle-street, Red-lion-square, and two other places, against Suttees, wished to know from the noble Lord opposite if there were any foundation for the report that the British Government in India had prohibited the practice of burning widows? It had been asked of him how it happened that the subject had been allowed so long to sleep in Parliament? He replied, that from the time he heard that Lord William Bentinck was appointed to the government of India, he entertained no doubt that whatever could be safely done towards the abolition of the practice the noble Lord would endeavour to effect. This confidence had not been misplaced. It would not become him to pronounce a panegyric on that noble person, but he was sure, if any man possessed the moral courage to achieve so great a victory over prejudices, in the cause of humanity, it was Lord W. Bentinck. What he now wished to know was, whether the report alluded to was well founded?Mr. F. Buxton
406405l.404l.403 expressed his surprise, that the hon. Mover had not proposed some remedy for the distress which he alleged to exist to such an extraordinary extent. He trusted that he should be enabled before he sat down to show that the hon. Member had somewhat overcharged the colouring of the picture which he had drawn. He collected from the hon. Member's observations, that in his opinion, the general cause of the distressed condition of the country was, the change which had taken place in the currency. At the time that change was proposed, he (Mr. Irving) opposed it, because he foresaw the evils that would result form it;
406405l.404l.403Mr. Irving
 explained, and reiterated his statements, affirming that his information was as good as that of any other hon. Member.Mr. Irving
 said, he believed that the distress, of which so many petitions complained, was fast disappearing. Indeed he knew, from excellent authority, that at present there was more work at Leeds than there had been for many years. Never was trade there more active, and he did not believe there was one man who might not find employment. Orders, too, had lately been received there, which would keep the people continually employed for some time. He wished, distinctly and positively to state, because a different representation had lately been given by the hon. Member for Newark, that the trade of Leeds was now brisker than it had been for many years. For some of our manufactures there was at present a greater demand than there had been at any former period.Mr. Irving
 explained, that the letter he had read was not from Leeds, but from Manchester. He had to complain, in the first place, of the rather severe language which the hon. Mover had used towards those who differed from him in opinion. He was a party to no conspiracy to resist the line of policy the hon. Member recommended, or in any manner to oppose inquiry. That line of policy, could he separate his own interests from that of the country, would be to his advantage.Mr. Irving
 said, he could not, of course, deny the hon. Member's statements, but he was disposed to think that the cause of distress in Gloucestershire was, that the manufacture of woollen cloth was migrating from thence, and from the west of ling-land, into Yorkshire, principally on account of the cheapness of coal in the latter. In the same manner, the silk manufacture was emigrating from Spitalfields to the country. For this cause of distress he did not think there was any relief; at the same time, he repeated that the manufacture of cloth at Leeds was very brisk, and gave employment to a great many persons.Mr. Irving
d.s. presented a Petition from Irvine, representing the severe suffering of the hand-loom weavers, who, by labour of sixteen hours per day, were only able to earn on an average 3d.s.Mr. Hume
 wished the House not to believe, that the Truck System was the cause of the distress; it was the consequence of it. He would not, however, then raise a debate on the question, as it would be discussed to-morrow.Mr. Hume
 said, he could not avoid entering his protest against the ministers of any persuasion whatever inflaming the passions and fostering the ignorance of the poorer classes. It was a departure from their sacred functions which ought not to he tolerated. The Truck System, so far from being injurious to the workmen, was one of the means by which the masters were able to employ them; and if they were not to adopt it, they could give them no wages at all. The sufferings of the poor, of which he was as sensible as any man, did not arise from the Truck System, but in a great measure from causes beyond the control of that House; and the petitioners would act more consistently with their sacred character if they were to make themselves masters of the subject, and in spreading sound information among the people, remove the causes of discord instead of promoting them. To-morrow, he hoped, the subject would be fully discussed, but he must, in the mean time, protest against clergymen going out of their way to petition that House on a subject of which it was plain they were very ignorant,Mr. Hume
418l.l.l.l.l.l.417d.l.416415414413412411 said, he could not avoid alluding to the statement made that evening with respect to the Town of Leeds, by the hon. Member for Bramber. He trusted the House would not be guided by private communications in preference to the statements contained in the document he had that night laid on its Table—a document which had been signed by 1,500 individuals, for the most part heads of families, who complained that they were in a situation of unparalleled distress. He asked the House if they would credit information derived from private sources, declaring that the country was prosperous, when they had daily laid before them petitions from every quarter of the United Kingdom praying for relief from the pressure of misery no longer tolerable? [During the time the hon. Member was speaking considerable confusion prevailed. Mr. Irving stood up, and appeared anxious to speak. The Speaker at length succeeded in restoring order.] Mr. Sadler proceeded. He had said nothing offensive to the hon. Gentleman. He had not impeached his veracity. [Mr. Irving again rose amidst cries of Order!] He was not conscious of having uttered anything offensive to any individual. He thought that private documents ought not to be placed in competition with public petitions. If private communications were to be entitled to such authority, he could draw a letter from his pocket, written by a person for whose respectability he had no doubt the County Members would vouch; and from this letter it would appear, that, in this very Leeds, men were supplying the place of animals, by carrying coals to the towns. He did say, that the statements of individuals should not be suffered to out-face the petitions of the people. It would be most mischievous and most insulting to the petitioners who humbly
418l.l.l.l.l.l.417d.l.416415414413412411Mr. Sadler
 presented a similar Petition complaining of distress from Leeds, signed by 1500 persons, many of whom, he said, were heads of families. He observed, that to those the remark of the hon. Member opposite, respecting the abuse of the Poor-laws, did not apply. They had nothing to do with the administration of the Poor-laws though they profited by them, for he did not know how they could have subsisted without the relief given them by the Poor-laws.Mr. Sadler
430 was anxious that an inquiry should be instituted into the causes and probable remedies of the present condition of the country, but should prefer an impartial select committee to one of the whole House, as proposed by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury. With the view of obtaining a select committee, he should propose, as an Amendment to the hon. Member's Motion, that a "Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the
430Sir C. Burrell
382 rose, to present a Petition from the county of Northampton, complaining of general distress, and praying for general relief. The petition bore the signature of the High Sheriff; and as his, of course it must be received; but it certainly proceeded from a county meeting. At that meeting another petition was proposed, which included a prayer for parliamentary reform. The two petitions were put to the meeting; and the High Sheriff, upon a show of hands, decided that the majority was in favour of that now in his hand. He would not conceal that a strong feeling existed that the decision on the show of hands was erroneous. He would not say whether the High Sheriff was right or wrong; but this he would say, that he never saw more good feeling or good temper than prevailed during that meeting; and he had no doubt that those who attended would receive the-announcement recently made by the Government on the subject of taxation most gratefully; for the relief
382Mr. Cartwright
 read a letter in justification of the refusal, on the ground that, there was already a sufficient number of public-houses in proportion to the population of St. Ives. It only amounted to 2,800, and there were already thirty-eight public houses in the place. Moreover, the house the petitioner wished to have licensed was situated in the Market-place, where there were already no less than six public-houses. These appeared to the magistrates justifiable grounds for the refusal.Mr. Fellowes
388 said, the observations of the hon. Member were so much at variance with the spirit in which the petitioner; came before the House, that he could no! avoid saying one word in their defence They expressly state in their petition, the they are much disinclined to meddle in political matters, but being continually made sensible of the distress arising from the system, they thought themselves: bound to lay their petition before the House. He was afraid it was rather the hon. Member who was ignorant of the
388Mr. W. Smith
, in presenting a Petition from the Clergymen of the Wesleyan persuasion, near Dudley, praying for the abolition of the plan of paying wages in goods, observed, that the petitioners stated, that extreme distress existed in their neighbourhood, which they attributed, in a great measure, to that system, which they prayed the House to abolish. He supported the prayer of the petition.Mr. W. Smith
 deprecated such desultory remarks on presenting a petition, when there was a motion on the subject to be brought forward that evening.Mr. W. Whitmore
 said, if the hon. Member stated that those clauses did not embrace the principle of the Bill, the petition might be referred to the committee.The Speaker
 informed the hon. Member, that the petition being against the principle of the Bill, it could not be referred, as he moved that it should, to the Committee; for this principle of the Bill had been already agreed to on the second reading. If the petitioners prayed against parts of the Bill, the petition might be sent to the committee.The Speaker
 supported the prayer of the petition, and bore his testimony to the good behaviour of the petitioners.Sir John Wrottesley
, in observing on the Petition, took occasion to remark, that the noble Lord ought to have commenced by recommending" reform to his own constituents before he came down and recommended reforms in Parliament.Sir M. W. Ridley
378, who had given the notice of moving that the House be called
378Sir R. Vyvyan
 agreed with the noble Lord that the case of the petitioners was one of great hardship; one, indeed, of the, he feared, too many abuses of the Church establishment in Ireland. He had wished to relieve the inhabitants of this parish, but he found, as he had stated the other evening, that the law would not allow him.Sir J. Newport
391 presented a Petition from the Catholic inhabitants of a parish (New Ross, as we understood the noble lord) in the county of Wexford, against the Select Vestry Act. The noble Lord con-
391Lord Althorp
 said, no doubt the petition was the petition of the High Sheriff. The High Sheriff persuaded himself that it was the petition of the meeting; but there were not two persons present who agreed with him in that opinion. Some of those immediately near the High Sheriff might have held up their hands in favour of the petition; but the great mass of those in the hall were against it; amongst whom were one banker, several clergymen, and others of much respectability. He had great satisfaction in thinking that so respectable a meeting of his constituents had declared in favour of parliamentary reform.Lord Althorp
420 wished to explain his reasons for resisting the Motion. He had alluded to cloth manufacture when he said it was brisk at Leeds. The hon. Member, he believed, alluded to manufacturers of stuffs when he said the trade was dull. That was the amount of the difference between them. He did not oppose the Motion because he was insensible to distress, or because he wished to blink inquiry, but because the form of proceeding recommended would be found most inconvenient and ill calculated for the object in view. It was proposed that a Committee of the whole House should enter into all the wide matters connected with agriculture, manufactures, taxation, commerce, and the currency. Great benefit might result from particular investigations before Select Committees, but not from such general examinations before the whole body of the House. Great benefits might result, too, from such inquiries if prosecuted by his Majesty's Ministers, or by individual Members, who might afterwards submit their views to the House. With respect to the policy of his Majesty's Ministers, he thought that their internal policy, and the principles they had adopted in regard to trade, in spite of occasional errors, were entitled to the thanks and approbation of the House. He, therefore, would join in no attempt to cast general censure on them, or to convey an opinion, by a vote of the House, that they were unworthy of confidence. He had a still stronger objection to the manner in which the proposition was brought forward; for, although the hon. Mover had said, that he would recommend no measure, yet currency was the beginning, middle, and end of his speech, and a change in the existing state of things in this respect, was in fact inferred as the remedy for all evils. He (Lord Howick) was of opinion that no change in the currency could now be made without a. breach of national faith, and great injury to all classes. Amongst the errors and fallacies in the hon. Mover's speech, there was, however, he must admit, a mixture of truth and sense. He agreed with him, and with the hon. Member for Newark, in thinking that our circulation was not securely fixed. He agreed, too, with the hon. Member for Liverpool, that there was a great difference between the diminution of the value of the currency and depreciation. He begged, therefore, to throw out to Ministers, as a suggestion
420Lord Howick
 said, that he, too, was determined to unite himself with those who should propose to have this tax repealed. To abolish it, would confer considerable benefit on several classes of the community.Mr. Liddel
 was of opinion, that Ireland, since she was placed on a footing with England as to civil and religious rights, ought to bear her equal burthen of the public expenses. She had no Assessed Taxes to pay, nor any Land-tax, both of which fell heavy on England; and he therefore thought, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done quite right in in-creasing, to a small extent, the share Ireland contributed to the general revenue.Mr. Heathcote
 said, he, like the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Newport), would not assimilate the taxes of the two countries, by raising those of Ireland, but by lowering the taxes of England. If there was a large portion of rent from Ireland spent in this country, let it also be recollected, that England afforded, at all times, a ready market for the produce of Ireland. If it were possible that the ports of the two countries should be hermetically sealed against each other, Ireland would be a great deal worse off than at present.Colonel Davies
bona fide concurred with his right hon. friend, both as to the importance of the subject, and the impropriety of then discussing it; he would recommend that the Bill should be brought in, and the amendment which the hon. Member for Aberdeen meant to propose, might be brought forward on the second reading, which would be a better time for discussing it than this evening. The House had heard from the hon. Gentleman what his object was—that he did not mean to prevent a bona fideMr. Herries
 each made a few observations on the course of proceeding, when it was agreed that the debate should stand adjourned to the next day.Mr. Littleton, Mr. Hume, and Colonel Davies,
 said, he agreed with Mr. Hume in his opposition to the Bill, which he thought instead of being an advantage would be sure to operate to the prejudice of the workmen. Wishing as well to them as any Gentleman of that House, he should, on that account, feel it his duty to oppose the Bill, because he thought it would militate against the object the hon. Member had in view.Mr. Davies Gilbert
l.l.l.l. said, the hon. Member forgot one material circumstance, which made a great difference between the two countries. Ireland paid from 4,000,000l.l.l.l.Mr. O'Connell
457 said, he rose to present a Petition from the Gentry, Clergy, Merchants, Bankers, and other inhabitants of Kingston-upon-Hull. The petitioners complained, he said, of the great distress, which they felt most heavily in common with many other parts of the country; and they earnestly prayed the House to institute an inquiry into its causes, with a view of giving them relief. They prayed, and in this part of their prayer he cordially concurred with them, thinking it the only effectual method of giving relief, for a large reduction of taxation. He was convinced that the state of the country made it necessary that the House should attend to this part of their prayer. He felt much indebted to the Government for the reduction already made, but he was convinced that greater reductions must be made, to meet the situation of the country. The petitioners also prayed for a revision of the laws respecting the currency, and in this part of their prayer he could not concur. He believed that the alterations which had been already made had caused a great deal of mischief, but further changes would, in his opinion, be still more detrimental. Looking at what had already taken place,
457Mr. Sykes
 also expressed his satisfaction to find this subject taken up warmly by hon. Members, for there was no tax that was more oppressive than the tax on Coals.Mr. Wodehouse
461l.l.l. in presenting a Petition from the Grand Jury of the County of Stafford, complaining of the heavy charge incurred by passing Scotch and Irish Poor, said, that the charge had increased from 454461l.l.l.Mr. Littleton,
472471l.470469468l.d.s.d.s.s.l.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.d.s.467d.s.l.d.s.v.s.s.s.s.s."We, the Assistant Overseers of the poor of the parish, do severally make oath, and say, that there are workmen in the Parish of Stoke-upon-Trent whose masters pay their servants in goods instead of money, who make frequent applications to us for parochial relief; such persons alleging, that it is utterly out of their power to maintain themselves and families without such assistance, in consequence of being paid in the manner aforesaid. And further,—we do make oath and say, that we have had goods produced to us, which have been taken in lieu of money by such workmen, and that such goods have been charged from 100 to 200 per cent above the market price, as we have been informed, and believe."d.466d.d.d.d.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.d.d.d,d.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.465d.s.s.464d.d.s.s.d.d.d.d.118811Amount
118811Amount0161Cheese, 2lbs.
0161Cheese, 2lbs.8201Tea, 2 ounces
8201Tea, 2 ounces9201Butter, 1lb.
9201Butter, 1lb.8291Sugar, 1lb.
8291Sugar, 1lb.82111Beef, 2lbs.
82111Beef, 2lbs.10201Mutton, 2lbs.
10201Mutton, 2lbs.0203Bacon, 4lbs.
0203Bacon, 4lbs.d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peck
d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peckMarket-pricesTommy-shop
Market-pricesTommy-shop
118811Amount
118811Amount0161Cheese, 2lbs.
0161Cheese, 2lbs.8201Tea, 2 ounces
8201Tea, 2 ounces9201Butter, 1lb.
9201Butter, 1lb.8291Sugar, 1lb.
8291Sugar, 1lb.82111Beef, 2lbs.
82111Beef, 2lbs.10201Mutton, 2lbs.
10201Mutton, 2lbs.0203Bacon, 4lbs.
0203Bacon, 4lbs.d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peck
d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peckMarket-pricesTommy-shop
Market-pricesTommy-shop463462 then rose, to make the Motion of which he had given notice, for leave to bring in a Bill, to prohibit the payment of Wages in Goods. He stated, it was the wish of a great number of his constituents that the Truck System should be abolished; but though he was desirous of attending to those wishes, he was so convinced of the evils of this System, that had they not pressed the matter on him he should have been ready to take it up; and representing, as he did, a large manufacturing country, he should have been greatly wanting in his duty had he not endeavoured to find a remedy for evils of which he had been a witness, and of which the whole of the manufacturing districts complained. He believed that upwards of sixty petitions bad been presented against the practice of paying wages in goods instead of money, and he had no doubt that before the end of the Session the House would receive a great many more such petitions; they had come from all parts of the country, and he had presented, last night, petitions signed by at least 20,000 persons. These petitions did not come from theorists, but from practical administrators of the law, and merchants engaged in business, who daily
472471l.470469468l.d.s.d.s.s.l.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.d.s.467d.s.l.d.s.v.s.s.s.s.s."We, the Assistant Overseers of the poor of the parish, do severally make oath, and say, that there are workmen in the Parish of Stoke-upon-Trent whose masters pay their servants in goods instead of money, who make frequent applications to us for parochial relief; such persons alleging, that it is utterly out of their power to maintain themselves and families without such assistance, in consequence of being paid in the manner aforesaid. And further,—we do make oath and say, that we have had goods produced to us, which have been taken in lieu of money by such workmen, and that such goods have been charged from 100 to 200 per cent above the market price, as we have been informed, and believe."d.466d.d.d.d.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.d.d.d,d.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.465d.s.s.464d.d.s.s.d.d.d.d.118811Amount
118811Amount0161Cheese, 2lbs.
0161Cheese, 2lbs.8201Tea, 2 ounces
8201Tea, 2 ounces9201Butter, 1lb.
9201Butter, 1lb.8291Sugar, 1lb.
8291Sugar, 1lb.82111Beef, 2lbs.
82111Beef, 2lbs.10201Mutton, 2lbs.
10201Mutton, 2lbs.0203Bacon, 4lbs.
0203Bacon, 4lbs.d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peck
d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peckMarket-pricesTommy-shop
Market-pricesTommy-shop
118811Amount
118811Amount0161Cheese, 2lbs.
0161Cheese, 2lbs.8201Tea, 2 ounces
8201Tea, 2 ounces9201Butter, 1lb.
9201Butter, 1lb.8291Sugar, 1lb.
8291Sugar, 1lb.82111Beef, 2lbs.
82111Beef, 2lbs.10201Mutton, 2lbs.
10201Mutton, 2lbs.0203Bacon, 4lbs.
0203Bacon, 4lbs.d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peck
d.4d.s.2s.d.6d.s.2s.Flour, per peckMarket-pricesTommy-shop
Market-pricesTommy-shop463462Mr. Littleton
s. was also of opinion, that no tax was so oppressive as the tax on Coals. It was extremely unjust that a difference of a few miles should make such a difference in this tax; that one man might have his Coals without paying any tax, while the other would have to pay 6s.General Gascoyne
 in presenting a similar Petition from the inhabitants of a parish in the City of Oxford, observed, that in his opinion, much of the distress complained of by the petitioners, and by per-sons in all parts of the country, arose from a contraction of the currency, which had reduced the value of every species of property. Unfortunately, the contraction caused by the return to a metallic standard had been greatly aggravated by putting down the small notes issued by private bankers. The Government had, perhaps, a right to interfere with a corporation to which it guaranteed exclusive privileges, but it had no right to prohibit the circulation of any private securities which men in business were willing to accept. In his opinion, the putting down of the small notes was as gross a violation of the principles of free trade as any Minister could be guilty of, and the consequences of that measure had been, as he had before predicted, most disastrous. The widespread distress which had overwhelmed the land was one of its results. A better system of banking ought to have been introduced at the time, but nothing was done, except to make a slight alteration in the law relative to the Bank of England. At present, a solid system of banking was the great tiling that was wanted. We had gone abroad seeking connection and trade, and had so impoverished our own people that they had no longer the means to consume the commodities they were compelled to make. Perhaps it was impossible to go back to the war currency, but to persevere in our present line of conduct was, in the language of Mr. Burke, to be guilty of a most gigantic swindling transaction.Mr. Lockhart,
s.,d.,s.s. said, that he knew no tax which pressed so unequally on the public as the Coal-tax, nor could he conceive on what principle the consumer of Coals in London was taxed at the rate of 6s.,d.,s.s.Mr. Hume
l.l.458 in rising to move that certain accounts relative to Coals and Spirits be laid on the Table, said, he would take the opportunity, although the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in his place, of recommending to such of his official colleagues as were, the propriety of abolishing the duty on Coals carried to Ireland. He did not object to the increased tax he proposed to levy on that country, because he admitted that
l.l.458Mr. Spring Rice,
474 complimented the hon. Member for Staffordshire on the good feeling which prevailed in every part of his speech. With him he agreed, that the House ought to legislate on this subject, but he was not quite prepared to say that the Bill of his hon. friend came fully up to his views. He admitted that the Truck System was a great evil, which ought to be abated, but the interference involved other principles and other considerations which his hon. friend had not taken sufficiently into the account. He would not then argue the question, as his hon. friend, to his regret, had selected a day for introducing the subject which was generally understood not to be a day for debating any question; he would recommend that some more convenient opportunity should be taken to discuss the measure. It involved the contentment and well-being of a portion of the community well entitled to the consideration of the House. He knew that the suffering of those who already endured a great deal would be much aggravated, were the House to allow the value of their labour
474Mr. Huskisson
473 seconded the Motion. He thought, he said, that it was their duty to put an end to the truck, and he entirely concurred in all the remarks made by his hon. friend. He spoke, he said, the sentiments of the county which he represented, and which stood high and justly as a manufacturing county. He had already presented a pe-
473Sir Christopher Cole
 took the same opportunity to express his dislike to the tax, which, as the preceding Members had stated, pressed very unequally on different persons. He thought it extremely unfair, that sea-borne Coals should be subject to this duty, while all Coals carried by land were exempt from it. That occasioned a great hardship in many cases to the poor man, whom the House ought to bear on as lightly as possible. He would, therefore, request that the hon. Member for Limerick would bring the subject under the consideration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Sir Christopher Cole
l., said, he was glad to see so strong a feeling manifested against the Coal-tax, because he was persuaded that to give it up would be of no importance to the Government, on the score of revenue, while the gain to the public would be immense. He had heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman on Monday with great pleasure, because he was convinced that the abolition of the duty on Beer would be a great benefit to the labouring classes; but since England was to obtain so much relief, and a little additional burthen was to be thrown on Ireland, he should have been happy if the abolition of the Coal-tax in Ireland, which did not yield above 50,000l.,Sir John Newport
459 concurred with other hon. Members, in thinking that this tax ought to be repealed. He knew no
459Sir Thomas D. Acland
542 said, he earnestly hoped that this subject would not escape the atten-
542Mr. Grant
 was very glad that the hon. Gentleman had withdrawn his Bill, because it only gave power to the Lord Chancellor which he already possessed. What they wanted was a real and efficient bill to remedy the evils of which they had so much cause to complain.Mr. R. Gordon
550549 said, that although the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. E. Davenport) had, on the previous evening, accused the Members who were of the same opinion with himself of being luke-warm in the cause, he (Mr. Fergusson) must say, that he had not perceived any behaviour to justify that accusation. For his own part, he thought that nothing like apathy had been displayed; for scarcely an evening during the present Session had elapsed without the subject being adverted to in one shape or another. Neither did he think, though he should perhaps have to vote against the Ministers that night, that they had thrown themselves open to the charge of having been negligent of the state of the country. On the contrary, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a few evenings ago, the House was bound, he thought, to believe that the Ministers were really willing to do whatever was in their power. The hon. Member for Shaftesbury having moved for a committee of the whole House, he should have felt some difficulty in supporting that motion, knowing that the time necessarily occupied by such a proceeding might be advantageously employed in the other affairs of the country. The Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Shoreham, however, relieved him from the difficulty that he felt on that head, and he should therefore vote for the appointment of a Select Committee. The only ques-
550549Mr. Fergusson
553552551 was ready to admit that there had been distress in the country during the last year; but he thought it would be better to look at the causes of that distress, to ascertain whether it
553552551Mr. W. Whitmore
560559dd558557556sssssssssssdsssssssssssdssssdsdssdsssssdsds555ssssssssdssdssss554 said, if he could believe all the representations made by hon. Members, he must suppose that there was no employment in the country, and that the people were actually dying of starva-
560559dd558557556sssssssssssdsssssssssssdssssdsdssdsssssdsds555ssssssssdssdssss554Sir George Philips
 said, that the subject was too delicate for a Member so young as he was to presume to pronounce an opinion on it, but he might say, that the present state of the country excited in him feelings of pain and deep concern, and that he could not look on the future without the most frightful forebodings. He thought that in a Committee the question of the public distress was likely to receive a better consideration than it could do in the House, and that the relative value of opinions could be ascertained with greater certainty, and their merit more fully appreciated.Mr. Bucknall Estcourt
564Among them all—the patient died!"A third a tonic mixture tried;A second bleeding strongly urged;"One doctor physic'd him and purg'd;563lllll562llWhen once destroy'd, could never be supplied.That a bold peasantry, their country's pride,561 did not deny that considerable distress existed; but was persuaded that many of the statements of it were greatly exaggerated. He entertained no despair of the country; but, on the contrary, felt convinced, that however serious the difficulties might be with which it was beset, it would rise superior to them all. With respect to the low prices, some of the causes of them were, in his opinion, sufficiently obvious. During the war, our manufacturers and merchants had a monopoly of the markets. Now, however, they were obliged to enter into a competition with foreign manufacturers and merchants. Now, as one-fifth of our industry was employed in the supply of the foreign markets, our exports being between fifty and sixty millions, and as the prices we obtained in the foreign markets must govern our prices at home, he thought there was little difficulty in accounting for the low prices. Among the causes assigned by various persons for the existing distress
564Among them all—the patient died!"A third a tonic mixture tried;A second bleeding strongly urged;"One doctor physic'd him and purg'd;563lllll562llWhen once destroy'd, could never be supplied.That a bold peasantry, their country's pride,561Sir Hussey Vivian
567566565 declared himself prepared to support the Motion of the hon. Member near him, though he trusted that in doing so he incurred no risk of being understood to pronounce any opinion condemnatory of the motives of his Majesty's Government. He was willing to give every credit to the right hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House for the uprightness of their intentions, and for the earnest zeal with which they endeavoured to promote the interests of the country, as it appeared to them; but he must be allowed to say, that his views of the true interests of the country, and what its necessities at the present moment demanded, were quite opposed to the course which the Ministers of the Crown appeared determined to persevere in adopting. There was one proposition on which he would mainly rely, and which he did not apprehend that any hon. Member would attempt to controvert—namely, that at the present moment there was not profitable employment for the capital of the country. Notwithstanding the low rate of interest at which money could be borrowed, there were not to be found traders in the United Kingdom who could see any profitable means of embarking it in any speculation whatever—that he believed was true of nearly every branch of commerce and manufactures. Were the Government and Legislature of the country to allow things in such a state to take their course—were they to say to the people, "You must wait for the operation of natural causes, and not look to any amelioration of system for that relief of which you now stand so deeply and alarm-
567566565Mr. Liddell
572571llll570569568 would state shortly his views to the House upon this most important occasion; in commencing to do which, he could not help saying, that those who were loudest in their expressions of sympathy with the sufferings of the people, were the slowest to bring forwad any measures of relief, or to pledge themselves to any definite proposition for the benefit of the country. It had been made matter of repeated accusation against the Ministers, particularly by the hon. Member for Newark, that at different times they had attributed the public distress to various and contradictory causes. First, they were accused—or rather he should say, not the present Government, but several successive Governments were accused—of attributing the distress, some years to a transition from a state of war to a state of peace. Now he believed that, at this distance of time, no one could doubt who looked at the condition of the country at that period, that the distress then prevailing was to be ascribed to that cause. At that period, the mere disbanding of the Army and Navy was in itself a considerable source of public inconvenience, and one of the most active causes of public distress; and he believed, that if the other causes to which, in truth and in justice,
572571llll570569568Mr. Courtenay
579578577llll576575574l573 said, he could not concur in the view taken of this subject by the hon. and gallant officer (Sir H. Vivian). He did not think the country was in a state approaching to prosperity; on the contrary, from his own knowledge of the condition of the people in Cornwall, and from his information as to the state of other parts of the country, he was convinced that it was suffering very severely. We were now in that situation, that if some remedy were not applied in time, they might, in three Sessions more, meet under a different form of government. He would not go into any detail
579578577llll576575574l573Sir Richard Vyvyan
 said, that nothing could be further from his intention than to say any thing personally offensive to the hon. Member for Newark, and if he had in his remarks passed beyond the fair line of controversial debate, he was bound to say that he was sorry for it.Mr. Courtenay
580 said, it was their part to consider, first, what were the nature and extent of the distress; and secondly, what was the remedy which it behoved them to apply. The hon. Member for Cornwall had observed, that the Ministry themselves admitted the fact of the distress by their remission of taxes. But who, he asked, had been ever found to deny it? The gist of the question was, whether it was distress of a nature for the Legislature to control, or rather of a kind to be remedied by the natural operation of events. He certainly thought that it had been very considerably exaggerated. The petitions were at least of a very unselfish character,
580Mr. Buller
610609608607606605604ll603602601llsdssds600599lllllllll598l597596595594593592ll591ll590589588587586585584***llll583582581 spoke in substance as follows:—Sir; The principal arguments which have hitherto been adduced in favour of the Motion,—I might, indeed, say the whole—by those who have given it an unqualified support, turn upon some undefined alteration which they wish to effect in our Currency. The hon. Baronet who lately preceded me (Sir Richard Vyvyan) has ventured into the field of prophesy. He predicts, that we must, ere long, come to one of these alternatives—either a depreciation of the Currency, by a return to an inconvertible paper circulation, or a national bankruptcy. The hon. Baronet fortifies himself in this prediction by quoting one from Mr. Hume, whom he describes as a true prophet, for having foretold, in his Essay upon Public Credit, that bankruptcy would be, at no distant period, the inevitable result of the extension of our debt. Many years have elapsed—more than seventy—since this prediction of the philosopher was given to
610609608607606605604ll603602601llsdssds600599lllllllll598l597596595594593592ll591ll590589588587586585584***llll583582581Mr. Huskisson
612ll611 rose amid loud and general cries of "Adjourn." After some difficulty the Speaker obtained order, and the noble Lord proceeded. He should have felt great difficulty in rising after the very able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Member for Liverpool, had he entertained any intention of following him throughout its various topics. But he had no such intention, for he nearly concurred in every syllable that the right hon. Gentleman had said. It had been stated by the hon. Member for Wootton Bassett, (Sir G. Phillips) that all the hands in the manufacturing districts were at present in employment, and in employment, too, at good wages. Now, if that were the case, it was quite impossible to believe that any distress existed in that quarter. He was afraid, however, from the general body of information which had been poured into the House from those districts, that the statement of the hon. Member was much too favourable. He believed, however, that it must be admitted that some improvement had commenced to exhibit itself in the country. He hoped that it would long continue; but he must say that his hopes
612ll611Lord Althorp
 at length obtained a hearing. He said that if there were several Gentlemen still anxious to address the House on this subject, he should be the last man in the world to throw any obstruction in their way. The cries of "Adjourn" drowned the remainder of the right hon. Gentleman's observations.Mr. Peel
544, in presenting a Petition, praying for a Reform in Parliament, as necessary to restore that House to the confidence of the people, moved
544The Marquis of Blandford
 expressed his surprise that any objection should be made to the Motion.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 would take occasion to advert to certain official documents from Ireland, which he had formerly moved for, but, as it seemed, without effect. He alluded to the memorial of the Grand Jury of Cork to the Lord Lieutenant, relative to the postponement of trials in that county, together with the viceregal answer thereto. The return which was laid before the House, in compliance with his motion, consisted of a simple statement from Mr. Gregory, and dated from the Civil Office, at the Castle, in Dublin, that there was not the least trace of any such memorial having been received at the Castle. As he (Mr. Jephson) had stated that a memorial of that nature was transmitted, he found himself placed in rather a disagreeable situation. There could be no doubt that such a memorial was forwarded, and he wished to know from the noble Lord how it happened that a copy could not be laid before the House?Mr. Jephson
 supposed that some accident had befallen the memorial on its way to the Castle, but he had no means of elucidating the subject any further, having been absent at the time when it was alleged to have been presented.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that he, as Foreman of the Grand Jury, had forwarded the memorial on the day of the assize, accompanied by a letter, and he knew that both the letter and memorial were put into the post-office; and he did not know why a special commission had been granted, unless it was in consequence of that letter.Mr. King
 presented a Petition from the Operative Weavers of Dublin, complaining of distress, and praying for means of employment. The petitioners thanked the House, the hon. Member observed, for the advantages of civil and religious liberty they enjoy, but they venture to complain of the unparalleled distress from not having a market for their commodities. They complained chiefly of the want of a home market, and they therefore prayed the House to encourage the erection of public works in Ireland. Government, they thought, might advance money without the risk of loss, which, judiciously laid out, would give employment to thousands. All they asked for was employment.Mr. Brownlow
 observed that it would be very difficult to make out such a return. There were many electors non-residents, and they would not be included in the return.Mr. Ross
, like his honourable colleague, supported the prayer of the Petition. He concurred with the petitioners in thinking that the punishment of death was frequently inflicted when it was not necessary to insure the safety of society, but he had not yet carried his opinion so far as to suppose that it ought to be abolished in all cases except murder. It sometimes happened, that great violence was used in committing crimes, which, though not amounting to murder, could only be repressed by capital punishment. Except in such cases, he admitted, as a general principle, that the law ought not to inflict death as the punishment of crimes.Mr. Western
l observed, that the postponement of these trials had cost Government an expense of 3,000lMr. O'Connell
sdsl545 presented a Petition signed by several Protestants and Catholics in the town of Galway, praying for the admission of Catholics as well as Protestants to the freedom of the Corporation of that, town. The petitioners stated, the hon. Member observed, that the right to vote for Members of Parliament had been recognized, several times, to vest in the resident burgesses, and in particular, that it was recognized by the
sdsl545Mr. O'Connell
 did not see why it should be more difficult to make it for Ireland than it had been for England and Wales, for for which such a return was moved last year.Mr. Benett
 said, a motion of his to that effect was carried last year.Mr. Hume
ds supported the prayer of the petition, though he did not see by what means that House could give the petitioners any relief, except by reduction of taxation. It was a singular anomaly, he observed, in so rich a country as this, that so many thousands of the poor labouring classes should have to work for so many hours in the day at wages of 3dsMr. Hume
l548de lunatico inquirendo said, that, some short time since, he had introduced a Bill to enable the Lord Chancellor to issue Commissions l548de lunatico inquirendoMr. M. A. Taylor
547, in presenting a Petition from the owners and occupiers of land in Shipley and West Grinstead against the importation of Wool with a nominal duty, said, that it was necessary, in consequence of some remarks which had been made by Gentlemen on the Wool Trade, for him to describe, at some length, the contents of the Petition. The petitioners stated, then, that British wool had become nearly unsaleable, and that the admission of foreign wool into the home market was a serious injury to them. They were of opinion, that the real wealth of a country consisted in the quantity and value of its produce, and of the skill and industry of its inhabitants; that those branches of manufacture which combined the production of the raw material with its subsequent preparation, either for home consumption or for exportation, were the most profitable, and to be considered as the natural manufactures of a country; and it was, they affirmed, on this account that woollens had been, for so many generations, the staple manufacture of England. For all these reasons, the petitioners submitted to the House the propriety of encouraging, by protecting the home-grower of wool, the manufacture of woollens. If he were correctly informed, Austria, which sent a great quantity of wool to this country, would not, in return, take any of our manufactured cloths. And why, then, he would ask, should we sacrifice our home-growers of wool for the sake of admitting her raw materials into this country? There were other countries, he believed, which, like Austria, would allow us to have wool, but would take none of our manufactures in exchange. In France, a duty of thirty-three per cent was levied
547Mr. W. Burrell
543sds begged leave to present a Petition from the Operative Weavers of Glasgow, praying for some relief from the sinking distress under which they suffered. The Petition was signed by about 4,600 individuals; and large as this number was, he was informed that it composed but a very small portion of the thousands that were now suffering the severest privations from the extremely low rate of wages given to Operative Weavers in Glasgow. The petitioners averred, "that the average income of each family, according to the strictest investigation, amounts only to about 3543sdsSir M. S. Stewart
 said, he thought there could be no difficulty, for the non-resident freemen were included, as well as the residents, in the poll-books, and they were not liable to any sudden change.Sir J. Newport
 in presenting a Petition from the West-India Planters, praying for a reduction in the Duty on Coffee, observed, that he could not avoid expressing his regret, that nothing had been done for the Colonies in the late reductions of taxation; but since his Majesty's Government were disposed to afford relief where it was most wanted, he was not without hopes that they would yet, before the Session was at an end, do something for the Colonies, which were in a lamentable state. The loss of income in some of them was so great as to endanger their existence. When it was considered how much the former reductions of the duty on Coffee had increased the sale of that article, the petitioners were justified in anticipating, from a further reduction of duty, no loss to the revenue. Such a measure would be equally beneficial to the Colonies, and the mother country.The Marquis of Chandos,
623 hoped that the difficulties under which the West-India interest laboured would speedily be at an end. It would, no doubt, be extremely satisfactory to the Government to afford the petitioners any relief which they possibly could by the removal of any taxes which could safely be repealed. In bringing before the House his financial statement, he carefully considered those imposts which could with most advantage be repealed; and in looking at the choice he had made, he thought it best calculated on the whole to effect the legitimate objects of reduction. In his view the taxes on West-India produce could not with propriety be remitted, while the taxes on commodities made at home remained so high. Though not directly, yet indirectly, the West-India interest would derive bene-
623The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.s. thought a reduction of 7s.s.Mr. R. Gordon
624 said, that this subject had never been lost sight of since he had the honour, at the Board of Trade, to receive a deputation from the north of England, but he would not say that the Government had decided according to the wishes of the petitioners. He did not see how it was possible for the Government, when he considered how much Lead was used in our manufactures, to interfere with the competition in the market, and dictate an artificial price for an article of such extensive consumption. Even if it were possible to protect the English miner, as the practice of imposing a duty on the
624Mr. Herries
 presented a Petition from Portsmouth and Portsea, against the opening of the Trade in Beer.Mr. Carter
 presented a Petition from owners and occupiers of land of a hundred in the county of Buckingham, praying for a reduction of the Duty on Malt. The noble Lord expressed himself pleased with the reduction of the Duties on Beer; but still he must say, that unless the tax on Malt were also repealed, the farmer would not get that relief which his condition required. If the Malt duty had been taken off instead of the Beer tax, the advantage to the community would have been greater. He hoped that a motion which stood on the Orders on this subject would be pressed; and that if Ministers were not prepared to repeal this tax this year, they would announce their intention of doing so next year.The Marquis of Chandos
s.s.d.,s.d.s. contended, that the repeal of the Duties on Beer would give relief to the poor; and that, with the abolition of the present licensing system, would do away with the monopoly of the brewers, who had not reduced the price of Beer though the duty on and price of barley, had been nearly doable their present amount. The reduction of duty since the peace had been from 4s.s.d.,s.d.s.Mr. Heathcote
*647646645644643642641l640 said, the debate had taken an extraneous course. The questions for the consideration of the House were—Did the distress complained of exist?—What was its nature and extent, and from what causes had it arisen? Were the proposed reductions in taxation calculated to give the necessary relief, or what other remedies could be applied? He gave the Government credit for good intentions, and admitted that the taxes proposed to be repealed were well selected. The present Ministers had done as well or better than the administrations that had gone before them, but that was not enough: the country was now under extraordinary circumstances, and required much more; further reductions could not probably be made with our present enormous establishments, but had the estimate of Lord Castlereagh in 1817 been adhered to, more than a hundred millions, including interest, might have been saved to the country. That distress, to a great extent, existed was admitted by all, although some Gentlemen denied that it was extensive, and had produced letters to support their statements; but such documents, opposed as they were to petitions from all parts of the country, were worth nothing. All the productive classes, whether engaged in agriculture, mercantile, manufacturing, or trading concerns were alike suffering, and those who had fixed incomes, or who
*647646645644643642641l640Mr. Alderman Waithman
 observed, that in his opinion a sufficient case had been made out to call for the appointment of a committee; but after having heard what had fallen from the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, and the hon. Member for Newark, with respect to the question of currency, he said that it would be impossible to vote for the Motion without broaching that subject, unless it were an understood thing that the currency question should not be entered upon in the committee. He was convinced that the people would not be satisfied if they found that inquiry was refused because they were at variance on one point; and yet many Members would be compelled by the obstinacy (if he might use the term) of those who brought forward the motion on the question of Currency to vote unwillingly against it. With reference to the distress, he knew that it existed to a great extent among all the manufacturers. In particular, he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman say the other evening, that there was no distress in the iron trade, when, if there was one trade of the kingdom more distressed than another, it was the iron trade. He knew that several furnaces had been blown out.Colonel Davies
 explained, as we understood, that his information had been derived from an iron-master.Mr. Harries
628627 in continuation, said, that the anonymous authority of one iron master ought to have no weight with the House, when it contradicted such a well-known fact as the general distress of the iron manufacturers. The hon. Member then proceeded to read an extract from a news-
628627Colonel Davies,
 said, that the committee he had proposed, to inquire into the subject of colonization, had been refused, on the ground that the inquiries involved were too extensive—an objection which he thought peculiarly applicable to the present Motion. There were already committees appointed to inquire into the state of the poor in Ireland, and into several other circumstances connected with the national distress, which made the hon. Member's Motion of less utility, and therefore he should certainly vote against it.Mr. W. Horton
655654653Quorum magna pars fui,652s.s.651 said, the House were not called on to inquire now what were the causes of the present distress, and the speech of the right hon. Member for Liverpool had, therefore, been out of place—it would have been more appropriate in the Committee. The question was, whether there did exist such a degree of distress and suffering as demanded the attention of the House. He should have preferred a Committee of the whole House, and to have had evidence given at the Bar, as more suitable to the magnitude of the occasion. He would take the state of the country from the speeches of those from whom he differed. He would take it even in the mitigated language used in the Speech from the Throne, and of which the President of the Board of Trade had told them he had the confirmation in his pocket. If what that right hon. Gentleman produced to this purpose was to be called confirmation, never was any so unworthy of the original document. The right hon. Gentleman said, that he had received letters which had been sent him from different parts to inform him that the King's statement of the condition of the country was correct, although that statement was in direct opposition to the voice of the people. If the Ministers thought that there was but a trifling amount of distress, he thought the patient attention with which the House had listened to these discussions must have convinced them of their error. The proposed Committee was objected to, because it was so extensive in its nature that the Corn-laws must form one of the subjects of inquiry,
655654653Quorum magna pars fui,652s.s.651Mr. Attwood
671670l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.669l.l.,l.,l.,668667l.l.s.s.s.;s.;s.;s.666665l.l.,l.664663l.662l.661660l.659l.658l.l.l.l.l.;l.l.;l.l.l.l.d.;d.d.s.l.657l.,l.,l.l.,656 felt the full force of the observations of the honourable Mover, on the importance and extent of the inquiry; and he agreed, also, that each branch of the subject demanded the most patient investigation. Of the various topics introduced by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Cornwall (Sir It. Vyvyan), there was one which he (Mr. Peel) begged altogether to exclude—he meant the reference made by the hon. Baronet to party considerations. He declined following him upon that point, because he was anxious to enter upon the consideration of the sufferings of the people, without that temper of mind which party questions were likely to. produce. In steering his course through the crowded chart of facts and arguments adduced, he felt the want of a meridian line by which he could be directed, and perhaps, therefore, it would be better for him to pursue the track of those who had preceded him in debate. Acting then upon that view of the question, he had not the slightest hesitation in urging that it was the imperative duty of the Legislature to review all the means calculated to mitigate the existing sufferings of the country—taking especial care that they adopted none which were not perfectly compatible with the real and permanent interests of the whole community. Deeply lamenting, as he did, and as no man in the country of just feelings could help doing, the existence of the public distress, which he admitted to exist, though not in the degree, and to the extent which some hon. Gentlemen asserted—deeply lamenting, he repeated, the existence of that distress, he was most anxious to do all that could be done for its mitigation. He once more repeated,
671670l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.669l.l.,l.,l.,668667l.l.s.s.s.;s.;s.;s.666665l.l.,l.664663l.662l.661660l.659l.658l.l.l.l.l.;l.l.;l.l.l.l.d.;d.d.s.l.657l.,l.,l.l.,656Mr. Peel
673 said, it appeared to him that this discussion might be very easily brought
673Mr. Peel
 said, he should be unwilling to throw any obstruction in the way of hon. Members expressing their opinions, and therefore would propose that the further discussion of the Question should stand over till Tuesday.—Ordered accordingly.Mr. Peel
 presented a Petition from Arkengarthdale, in the North Riding of Yorkshire, complaining of the low price of Lead, of the great importation of foreign Lead, and of various other things from abroad, while the foreigner would take none of our commodities, and praying that a duty might be levied on foreign Lead. The place from which he presented the Petition was, he said, from its vicinity to the Lead Mines, of great importance. There were upwards of 20,000 people in that neighbourhood whose subsistence altogether depended upon these mines. He was certain that the importation of foreign Lead, of which the petitioners complained, was a serious evil, and he was anxious to know whether the Government contemplated an augmentation of the import duty on foreign Lead, or meant to allow of this competition proceeding unchecked. At a time when distress pervaded all ranks, Ministers should, as far as possible, look to the welfare of the working classes. He expected every day to receive a petition from Sunderland, exhibiting in a striking manner the great distress which he knew to prevail there, and which he did not wonder at, since he knew the vast quantities of timber, and of almost all other foreign productions, that were continually brought into the country. He requested to be informed what were the views of Government respecting the importation of foreign Lead.Lord W. Powlett
639l638d.,s.d.s.lld.d.,637636635 said, he had heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Liverpool, with regret and
639l638d.,s.d.s.lld.d.,637636635Mr. Holdsworth
621 said, he was satisfied that the reduction of the duty on Beer would do much good, but he could not concur in what had been said with respect to the Licensing System, He was sure
621Mr. C. Calvert
626625l.s., who was in possession of the House, immediately rose and went on to say; when the important measure that was introduced last Session to the House was brought forward, the right hon. Gentleman who proposed it, defended it on the ground of expediency; he wished that the Government would attend to the same feeling in this instance, because he was convinced that it would lead them to meet the universal wish of the people. It was retorted upon those Members who most pressed this point, that it was their unwillingness to lower their rents. Now, for his own part, he had no unwillingness on that head, because he was convinced of the necessity for such a proceeding. One of the most striking instances of the present state of things was to be found in the Wool trade; and of the state of that trade what was taking place in Lincolnshire might be taken as the criterion. The price of that article was now reduced to about 5626625l.s.,Colonel Sibthorp,
The loud and general burst of laughter which followed this sentence prevented our hearing whether the hon. and learned Member finished the encomium here.672Cries of "No" from all parts of the House.particeps criminis said, he was not a little surprised that nearly the whole speech of the right hon. Secretary was a defence of what was called his own bill, and that scarcely five minutes had been devoted by the right hon. Secretary to the discussion of the real practical question before the House. Nor had the hon. Member for Callington been behind him in steering from the subject. They had agreed in nothing but in going astray from the question under consideration. The hon. Member for Callington was The loud and general burst of laughter which followed this sentence prevented our hearing whether the hon. and learned Member finished the encomium here.672Cries of "No" from all parts of the House.particeps criminisSir C. Wetherell
Cries of "No, no." rose amidst loud cries of "Question." As soon as the hon. Member could obtain a hearing, he said that he felt he could not at that late hour do justice to his constituents, and that he begged, therefore, to move that the debate be adjourned. [Cries of "No, no."Mr. O'Connell
632d.s.l.631630629 said:—It had been my intention to abstain from troubling the House with any observations, or from voting at all on the present occasion. As far as the situation of the country has come under my purview, I agree with all that has been stated by the hon. Member for Essex; and as to the causes which have produced that situation of things, I also entirely agree with that hon. Member; but I am compelled to confess, which has also been not obscurely indicated by the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade as his opinion, that things so standing, I do not exactly see how to mend them. The very able speech, however, of the right hon. the Member for Liverpool has induced me to throw myself, for a few minutes, on the indulgence of the House. That right hon. Gentleman has proved, that all the commercial measures of the Go-
632d.s.l.631630629Mr. Hudson Gurney
634633 said, it appeared to him that nearly all the Members who took any part in the debate on this question, were of opinion that the distress was to be ascribed to the diminution of the currency. He repeated, that many Gentlemen had expressed an opinion to that effect, and he was satisfied that it was founded on very erroneous conclusions. It was a gross error to suppose that the distress would be alleviated by any artificial addition to the currency. He would ask the Members to look at the state of trade, and at the condition of the various branches of our manufactures. In the iron trade they would hear that so much iron had never been required before. In the silk trade they would hear that the importation of the raw material was greater than it had ever been, and in various other manufactures they would perceive steady demand and constant employment. But then, with all this demand, and with the employment of a vast deal of capital, there was still a great quantity of capital in the country which could not be advantageously invested, and which yielded but a very small return. Suppose, then, that this capital thus unemployed was still further increased, what would be the consequences? Why, a host of mere adventurers would be let in to the ordinary paths of commerce, the profits on capital would be still further diminished, and capital itself must unnecessarily be increased. The trade of the country did not require currency so much as customers. It required the opening of new channels for the direction of the industry; or, still better, that the people of Great Britain, the best and the surest, should become customers themselves. This was a good to be obtained by the removal of the burthen of taxation in such a manner as to increase consumption, and to that object the Government had already successfully applied
634633Mr. Leslie Foster
caput mortuum650 was much astonished at the declaration made by the hon. Member who had just sat down—that he had entered the House the advocate of inquiry, but was now opposed to it. With regard to these debates, he did not look at them as argumentative, but as evidential; and the evidence they afforded was, that distress existed to a great extent. Under these circumstances, the House ought not to abdicate its right of inquiry, especially since the distress appeared to arise from a new combination of social circumstances, before unknown. They might not be able to reduce taxation, but the right hon. Member for Liverpool had admitted that there might be a new arrangement of the taxes. There was now a suction upon the productive
caput mortuum650Mr. Lockhart
649 proceeded to say, that a very few days had elapsed since he had the honour to be returned to the House for a large and important agricultural county, whence he came convinced of the reality and prevalence of distress—distress, not indeed universal, but by far too abundant. He had entered these walls an advocate of inquiry; but, after listening patiently to the arguments offered for it during three nights, he felt his desire for inquiry arrested by the state at which the discussion had arrived. He found that two objects which a committee, if appointed, would have to take into consideration would be, the state of the currency and taxation. As to the currency, even if the principle acted on by the House in 1819 were an erroneous one (which he did not admit), it appeared to him, that in the present state of things, and after a lapse of eleven years, we should only run the risk of encountering still greater evils by abandoning the present and recurring to the former system.
649Mr. Bramston
648** felt called on to make a few observations, in consequence of what had fallen from the honourable Members for Bramber and Liverpool. Of his own knowledge he could say, that the Silk Trade was in a most deplorable state, and
648**Mr. Fyler
 concurred with the prayer of the petition, and gave notice of his intention to bring the subject of the trade of the West-India Colonies generally under the notice of the House shortly alter the Easter recess, with the assistance of the noble Lord. He must also express his regret that nothing had been done for the West-India Islands. As the trade with them was very advantageous, it was only right that they should receive their fair share of protection.Mr. K. Douglas
l. then moved, that a sum of 603,200l.Sir Geo. Clerk
622, in presenting a Petition from the publicans of the city of Hereford, praying that the trade in Boor might not be thrown open, observed, that the petitioners stated to the House, that they would most certainly be ruined by a measure, from which they did not believe the community would derive any benefit. Their sufferings too would be greater than those of the licensed victuallers in the Metropolis, because their properly depended more on the exclusive privileges they enjoyed. They had embarked their capital, they staled, in the trade, under the existing laws, supposing that as long as they conducted themselves with propriety, those laws would not be altered to their injury. Their conduct had been approved of by the magistrates and clergy of Hereford, and he must say, it would be very unjust for the House to impose a loss on them for the supposed advantage of other persons. They were subjected to having soldiers billeted on them, and various other burthens, for which their license was scarcely a compensation. They had in general paid considerable sums for their premises, and they could but expect, if the measure they prayed against were passed into a law, that they should be utterly ruined. The noble Lord, in conclusion, expressed his approbation of the conduct of the Ministers in diminishing taxation, and his hopes that the country might derive all the advantages they ex-
622Lord Eastnor
, in reply to the hon. Member, begged leave to say, that the object he had in view in repealing the tax on Beer—namely, the interests of the large majority of the people—would be defeated unless he could at the same time throw open the Beer-licensing system. If that were not done, the abolition of the duties on Beer could only benefit the dealers in Beer. He could not take too early the opportunity of stating, that he considered the freedom of the trade in Beer to be essential to the abolition of the duties on Beer. He did not deny that the free sale of Beer would be a partial inconvenience to publicans; but he was bound not to consult any interests but those of the public at large. In reply to the hon. Member for Wiltshire, (Mr. Benett) he begged leave to state, that although those who had a stock on hand might be inconvenienced by the intended abolition of the duty on Beer, still it was deemed the best course to have no refunding, and let the Act of repeal come in force on the 10th of October. The interests of the people at large were the rule of his conduct, and not the advantages or disadvantages of individuals. He should be certainly ready to be brought before the Committee; but he must warn Members against adopting the exaggerated views of interested parties out of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
698, in presenting Petition from Manchester, praying for the abolition of all taxes which enhance the price of the necessaries of life, and impede the national
698Lord Stanley
 as we understood, denied that the Petition expressed the sense of the influential portion of the inhabitants of Drogheda; and adverting to a petition presented the other evening, by Mr. O'Connell, respecting the abuses in the Charitable Foundations of Drogheda, which the hon. Gentleman had stated to be worth twenty thousand pounds a year, accusing the corporation of misappropriating funds to that amount, he declared, that the hon. Gentleman had come to erroneous conclusions from very ill-founded premises. He was distinctly authorized to deny the hon. Member's charge; he had inquired into the circumstances, and that charge was without foundation.Mr. Vanhomrigh,
703 confessed he did not feel much surprise at the doubts expressed by the hon. Member for the City of Oxford (Mr. Lockhart). and the hon. Member for Plympton (Sir C. Wetherell) respecting the propriety of receiving a petition in support of a project so mad and so absurd—so utterly destructive of the prosperity of Ireland, and so much calculated to injure the integrity of the Empire—as that of a repeal of the Act of Union. He repeated, he was not surprised
703Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed an opinion, that the hon. Member for Plympton was mistaken in the judgment he pronounced with respect to the Petition. He saw no reason why the House should depart from its usual courtesy on that occasion: when any hon. Member brought forward a measure to dismember the Kingdom, it would be time enough to raise the voice of reprobation, or to move an act of impeachment.Mr. Bernal
 saw no objection to the Petition being received, although he condemned its object.The Attorney General
 was also in favour of its being received.Mr. Hobhouse
, in explanation, denied that he had ever contended against the right of the people to express their opinions on that or any other subject. On the contrary, he had contended for that right. But while he had admitted the right, he had also declared that he could not find language strong enough to express his reprobation of the doctrines which the petitioners maintained. With respect to what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said of the separate legislatures of Jamaica, Halifax, and Canada, it must be remembered that, although they had separate legislatures, they were still parts of the United Kingdom. He wished to ask the hon. and learned Member for Clare, if he knew anything of the names that were affixed to the Petition? They appeared to have been signed in a moment of conviviality rather than at a serious meeting of freeholders. For instance, there was the name of "Paddy Bray," followed by that of "Billy Powder Bray."Mr. Secretary Peel
710l.,l.l.,l.,l. said, that after the appointment of the trustees, they were anxious to begin the payments at as early a period as possible. Not being able, however, to get the prize lists without a reference to India, the consequence was, that their progress was impeded; and the first payment was not made until September, 1826. The sum of 230,000710l.,l.l.,l.,l.Mr. Arbuthnot
, in presenting a Petition from the Society of Friends in Ireland, praying for a mitigation of the severity of the Criminal Code, and especially for the abolition of the punishment of Death for Forgery, said, although he could not himself consent to go the whole length of the prayer of the petitioners, he felt much pleased and flattered by their intrusting the petition to his care. He did not know any class of his Majesty's subjects in Ireland who were so exemplary in the discharge of all the duties and relations of life as those who were known by the name of Friends. There were none who exerted themselves more in the encouragement of local improvement, or who devoted themselves more earnestly to the relief of the distress by which they were surrounded.Mr. Sec. Peel
 expressed his regret at hearing the right hon. Gentleman say that he was not prepared to go the whole length prayed for by the petitioners with respect to the punishment of forgery. He (Mr. Lennard) had last Session introduced a bill on the subject; and he now gave notice, that early after the Easter holidays he would again call the attention of the House to it.Mr. Lennard
, in explanation, said, that on Wednesday he would move for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the laws respecting Forgery. By that bill it would be proposed to abolish the punishment of death for forgery, in many cases.Mr. Peel
 replied, that he had then misconceived the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. Lennard
 rejoined, that all that he had meant to state was, that he was not prepared to acquiesce in the total abolition of the punishment of death for the crime of forgery.Mr. Peel
711 presented a message from his Majesty, which was read by the Speaker. It was to the following effect:—"His Majesty having taken into consideration the Report made to his
711Mr. Peel
 wished to take that opportunity to ask a question, to which he trusted some hon. Member present connected with the Board of Control would give a satisfactory answer. It had been stated in the public prints, that considerable alarm had been excited in India in consequence of orders which had been sent out by the Government here, forbidding Lord William Bentinck to give those facilities for settling and taking land which his Lordship had been so willing to afford, with a view to encourage and facilitate the settlement of Europeans in India. He (Mr. Hume) wished to know whether that statement was correct, and whether such orders had been transmitted to Lord Wm. Bentinck?Mr. Hume
712 said, he supposed the hon. Member referred to the statement which had appeared in the papers that morning, and in that case he could assure
712Mr. Stuart Wortley
 moved the Order of the Day for the House going into a Committee of Supply.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would take that opportunity to inquire whether the House might shortly expect to have laid before it the papers relative to the affairs of Greece, mentioned in the Speech from the Throne at the opening of the Session.Lord John Russell
713 was not prepared at the mo-
713Mr. Peel
 could not understand why these papers had not been in preparation before that time.Lord John Russell
 inquired why certain returns for which he had formerly moved, to show the number of persons entitled to vote in the several cities, boroughs, and towns in the United Kingdom, had not been made out?The Marquis of Blandford
 said, the case was simply this. An Address was moved to his Majesty last Session, at an early period in the evening, shortly before the House adjourned, that there should be laid before the House a return of the number of persons entitled to vote in the several Cities and Boroughs in Great Britain. The return called for was of the number of persons entitled to vote, and it was impossible to make such a return, for it would be a most dangerous practice to allow the returning officer to decide upon the number of persons entitled to vote in any particular borough or city. A return could be furnished certainly of the number of persons who had actually voted at the, last election.Mr. Peel
 wished to know what inference could be drawn from the number that had voted at the last election? Many instances might occur where there had been no contest at all, and where, therefore, no such return could be made out.Mr. Peel
 suggested that a distinction should be made between the returns as to counties and as to cities and boroughs. In the latter places the number of voters could be easily ascertained, as the persons qualified to vote possessed that right in consequence of being freemen or free burgesses, &c,Mr. O' Connell
 said, it would be impossible to ascertain the number of scot and lot voters; and no return in that case, corresponding to the motion of the noble Lord could be made.Mr. Secretary Peel
, in answer to a question from Sir John Newport, as to the intentions of his Majesty's Government to impose a duty on Tobacco in Ireland, said, that he had, on a former evening, stated that it was the intention of Government to place a duty on Tobacco grown in Ireland; and he had hoped that the bill on the subject would have been before the House at the present time; but delay had been occasioned in arranging the necessary details. He could assure the hon. Member that the parties interested were perfectly aware of the intention of Government to lay a duty on Irish Tobacco; for it had been expressed in a previous Session, when a bill for that purpose before the House was withdrawn. Since then, several applications had been made to Government to ascertain what it intended to do on the subject, and they had received for answer that it was the intention of Government to impose a duty on Irish Tobacco.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether he was to understand that the motion which he had made upon a former occasion, and to which no opposition was then offered, could not be complied with?The Marquis of Blandford
 observed, that it would be more convenient if the noble Lord would give notice in future when he introduced motions of that description. No opposition had then been offered to his motion, because no person was aware that he intended to bring it on.Mr. Peel
l. said, that a certain sum was necessary at present for the public service in this department. His hon. friend intended to take a vote upon account for 200,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was not intended that the Commission in question should at all meddle with the constitutions of the Colonies. The object of the commission was to make a thorough review in detail of the colonial expenditure, for the purpose of effecting as much saving in that way as would be consistent with the public service. The proceedings of the commissioners would be submitted after- wards to the consideration of the House, and it would be for the House then to determine how far their recommendations might be acted upon.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had already stated that this commission would be advantageous to the public, without imposing any new expense upon the country. It was to be composed of persons connected with the Government, and practically acquainted with the Colonies. No new expense whatever would attend the appointment of such a commission.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied in the affirmative.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
716 conceived that some reasons for the measure should have been laid before the House, before the commission had been appointed. He should also like to know if the materials on which the
716Mr. Maberly
 observed, that the mode which had been chosen had been selected as most advantageous and convenient. When the report of the commissioners should be presented, it would be in the power of the House to pronounce its opinion on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the question to be decided was, if that office were necessary. He contended that it was not. The Pay-office of the Navy might pay the 10,000 marines in addition to the 19,000 seamen; and the duties of inspection might be performed by the General, Lieutenant-general, Major-general, or some of the other officers of the Marines who were so highly paid. He was convinced that this department was of no advantage to the public, and that its duties might be quite as well discharged, and at less expense, if they were arranged in the manner he had proposed. With respect to the Marine barracks, and the clothing for the marines, both these departments ought to be, he thought, transferred to the Ordnance, which already provided the clothing and stores for the artillery, and had the general inspection of barracks. He felt so strongly concerning the manner in which these matters were now arranged, that he was almost disposed to call the arrangement by the odious name of a job; the whole of the expenses, both for paying the marines and separate inspection of their barracks, being, in his opinion, wholly unnecessary.Mr. Maberly
725 protested against the doctrine which some Members seemed inclined to inculcate, that any particular vote of which they happened to disapprove showed the Government not to be sincere in their wish to diminish the public burthens. The question was, whether the business of the office now under discussion could be more
725The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.727 addressed the Committee for the purpose of moving an Amendment. He was then anxious to do so, as
l.l.l.l.l.727Mr. Vernon Smith
729 would support reduction, but not exactly in the form in which it was then proposed to the House. But for the Amendment before the Committee, he intended to have moved an amendment, the object of which would have been to carry into effect the purpose of the motion made a few evenings since by the hon. Member for Cumberland. The Government had admitted the office of Paymaster-general to be useless. He therefore wished to try the sincerity of their professions of economy by seeing whether they would consent to its abolition, and his amendment would have been, had he preceded the hon. Member, to abolish the salary of the Paymaster. It was necessary to ascertain whether offices were intended for the benefit of the public, or the advantage of the individuals who held them. The true way for his Majesty's Government to prove the sincerity of their professions with respect
729Mr. Bankes
 said, that he understood the Government, on the previous debate on this subject, to have pledged itself that the office of Paymaster should be immediately got rid of.Mr. Bankes
731 agreed entirely in the observations of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, and would certainly vote with him on the present occasion. He, for one,
731Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that the only argument he had heard in favour of the vote was, that the services of the gentleman who held the office of Paymaster had been active and efficient, and that it was the duty of the Government to retain him in that situation till he could be otherwise provided for. To that argument he could never agree. He had lately observed, that seventy seamen, who held trifling situations on board ships at Portsmouth, had been discharged, and he should be glad to know whether Ministers had waited until these brave men, who had fought and bled in the service of their country, were provided for, before they were sent adrift? At another place one hundred and twenty men were dismissed with a very short notice. He had, a few days before, received an account of thirty families thrown out of the employment of Government, without any notice or provision whatever. He knew no individuals who had such claims on the rewards of the country, as these seamen, who were often compelled to enter its service. It would be most unjust therefore if Ministers kept a single officer in employ for an hour more than he was wanted, while they discharged these poor seamen, and left them to starve, unprovided and unpensioned. Their services had not been limited to the Victualling or the Navy office; their duties had led them under tropical suns and amidst the ice of the poles; they had braved storms and battles, and if they were to be turned off, while a ministerial office was to be kept up to reward the services of some man who had at most never braved any other storm than that of a debate, the people might with justice cry out against the Government and the Parliament. It appeared, indeed, that while these men, who had actively served their country, might be sent to the parish for relief, one of his Majesty's servants must be made a burthen to the public, till a pension could be found to suit him. After this, let them hear no more about a desire to relieve a suffering people. After this, let there be nothing said about plans of retrenchment and economy.Mr. F. Baring
l.l.l. said, that it appeared on all hands that the office of Treasurer of the Navy was a sinecure; and yet it was the sinecure officer that was to be preserved, and the other that was to be dismissed. The proper mode of acting was to get rid of the sinecure, and give the man who did the business an ample remuneration. This scheme of the Government was very like its other schemes which promised economy: as for example, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a saving in the Victualling-office; but the fact was, that there had been an increase of nearly 200l.l.l.Mr. Maberly
733l.l. observed, that out of the five speeches that had been made against the item, four of them contained different and distinct propositions as to the two offices. This was of itself sufficient to prove that it was a matter of extreme difficulty for his Majesty's Ministers to bring forward a proposition with respect to this situation that was at all likely to produce unanimity. He denied that there was any difference in the language held by Ministers on the present, and on the former occasion. They asserted that there would be an immediate saving of 1,000733l.l.Mr. Peel
 observed, that he had no wish to accept of the office as a sinecure. He would rather have an office full of business. The hon. Member asked, whether he would consent to perform the duties of the office without salary? That was a question on which he as an individual could not decide. It was for the House, and not for him, to decide how the duties were to be performed, and how the person performing them was to be remunerated.Mr. F. Lewis
l. lamented that his argument had not penetrated the understanding of the hon. Member, who must be extremely pugnacious if he were disposed to quarrel with the very modest proposal of Ministers. The experiment he wished to try was, whether the office of Deputy could not be abolished—the principal being required to discharge the duties. If it should turn out that the experiment failed, he would undertake that in the estimates of next year only 2,000l.Mr. Peel
 said, that having elicited this information from the right hon. Secretary, he should beg leave to withdraw the Amendment.Mr. V. Smith
transitu.736l.l. said, that it was found the most economical to send part of the money for the payment of the navy to the outports. He would take that opportunity of stating that he was aware of the recommendation on this subject contained in the pamphlet of the hon. Bart. (Sir H. Parnell). But the statement that half a million sterling was sent to the different out-ports by such means was an error. A sum not exceeding 20,000transitu.736l.l.Mr. F. Lewis
 would undertake to examine the subject, and if he could find better means of conveying the money than that now employed he would adopt it.Mr. F. Lewis
 was sure that the conduct of the Lord Mayor was dictated by a regard to the public interest. That magistrate wished that the matter should be investigated before a proper tribunal, and he was sure that an Irish court of justice would be willing to afford its protection to the animals (bulls) for which the market was intended.Lord Leveson Gower
696 wished to take that opportunity of explaining what he had said a few nights before. He had then stated, that in his opinion the removal of the Beer duties would be a great benefit to the public brewers; but he meant that opinion to apply solely to brewers, and no other class of persons. He knew that a great difference of opinion existed on the subject; but he had been very cautious in delivering his own sentiments.
696Mr. Charles Barclay
 observed, that if the feelings of the people of Ireland were really averse to the continuance of the Union, he was persuaded that those feelings could not be put down by the rejection of the present Petition; which would be the sure method of kindling a still stronger spirit of hostility in their minds. For his part, however, he did not think that the existence of such feelings was to be apprehended to any great extent. The interests of all classes in Ireland were so identified with the continuance of the Union, that he was satisfied that there was no general disposition to attack it, and he trusted that the hon. and learned Member for Clare would abandon the wild speculation in which he had embarked on that subject, and would devote his talents to some better and more useful purpose.Mr. Brownlow
 contended, that throwing open the licensing system would be highly injurious to the vested interest of that numerous and respectable body—the publicans—and he hoped that the duties might be taken off Beer, without at the same time doing away with the licensing system. He wished to see the former measure tried by itself.Mr. C. Calvert
702 thought, that a petition for the repeal of the Union with Ireland, mischievous and absurd as it was, seemed also so clearly an attack on the principles of the Constitution, of which that Union now formed a part, that he for one should
702Sir C. Wetherell
 again declared, that a petition praying to dissolve the Union with Ireland was something little short of treason, and insisted that it should not be received. If the hon. Member for Clare thought the Act of Union should be repealed, let him move for leave to bring in a bill for that purpose, and he would see how the House would meet it. He thought he could guess its fate; but he objected now, on the threshold, to the reception of this petition, which was a sort of sidewind,—a subterraneous movement,—to do by a dark, insidious course what no hon. Member would have the hardihood to propose specifically.Sir C. Wetherell
l.l.730, in continuation. Well,
l.l.730Mr. C. Wood
l.l. said, he had voted for the motion of the hon. Member for Cumberland, for abolishing the office of Treasurer of the Navy, because he thought the Government might have made a more economical arrangement, and that it was the business of the House to compel Ministers to adopt such an arrangement. It appeared by the statements of the hon. Members opposite, that two offices were kept up while one was sufficient, and while the Paymaster, according to the admission of the Secretary to the Admiralty, did the whole business both of Treasurer and Paymaster. To him therefore it was extraordinary that the efficient office should be abolished and the inefficient retained. The responsibility of the Treasurer had been dwelt on, but in fact, when put to the proof, that turned out to be no responsibility at all. The office of Treasurer of the Navy was plainly therefore a sinecure. It had been stated too, that the Treasurer might not only do the duties of his office and attend in Parliament, but also that he had time to look after what had been called the floating and unattached business of the Government. What then was the saving proposed by the abolition of the office of Paymaster? The Treasurer received a salary of 2,000l.l.Mr. C. Wood
 called upon the Member for Radnor to put an end to the debate, by stating whether he were willing to hold the office of Honorary Treasurer of the Navy until the Paymaster of the Navy was otherwise provided? If he would do that, the vote would be unnecessary.Mr. D. W. Harvey
, in presenting a Petition, very numerously and respectably signed, from the in-habitants of the city of Drogheda, praying for a Repeal of the Act of Union, through which they alleged that Ireland was suffering incalculable mischief, observed, that the petitioners referred to the total disregard shewn by the United Parliament to the local interests of Ireland, as a proof of their assertions. The Sub-letting Act, the Vestries' Act, the disfranchising of the 40s. freeholders were all passed in contempt of the local interests of that country. Jobs were encouraged, and grievances un-redressed. The colonies had local legislatures, but Ireland was governed by the English Parliament. He moved that the Petition be brought up.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that those were the names of two of the registered freeholders of the town in which the meeting was held.Mr. O'Connell
708, in moving that the Petition should lie on the Table, took the opportunity of refuting the charge that it was a Petition of a sectarian character, or concealed anything, or sought to attain by covert means, an object which the petitioners did not dare avow. He had not had anything to do with the formation of the Petition; it had been sent him by post, and he knew nothing of its existence till
708Mr. O'Connell
705l.l.704 was very sorry that the
705l.l.704Mr. O'Connell
 next presented a Petition from Stephen Fox Dixon, complaining of the conduct of the Corporation of Dublin in turning him out of a Coal-meter's situation, and of the bill which gave the Corporation power so to act. He had been a Coal-meter from 1806, and had received his share of the fees which were legally appropriated by the Coal-meters, through whom the corporation levied a lax on the public of several thousand pounds a-year. It had, indeed, proceeded so far that the interference of a court of justice had been demanded, which decided that the imposition ought not to be levied. According to the corporation, however, it was entitled to regulate the business of the Coal-meters by an Act of Parliament. In the course of these proceedings the corporation had turned the petitioner out of his situation, causing him considerable loss; and as he. had no means of redress, he applied to the House. The prayer of his petition was, that the House would amend the Act by which the Corporation of Dublin was enabled to commit this oppression.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a Petition from Patrick M'Dermott, John Martin, and Miles M'Dermott, complaining of the conduct of the Lord Mayor of Dublin in removing the Pig-market of that city. The petitioners had been forcibly ejected from the market, though the law authorities of Ireland had given an opinion in their favour. They had a right to sell Pigs in the market.Mr. O'Connell
 was averse to the adjournment of the debate on a question which could not be considered important after what they had heard, but as the Petition was respectfully worded, he saw no objection to its being received.Mr. Portman
 did not intend to trouble the House at any length, but could not refrain from saying that these offices were defended in a manner in which there was more of fallacy and sophistry than he had ever before heard, and which depended on those old and worn-out excuses that might be brought forward in support of any kind of abuse. He thought it necessary that the Committee should express their opinion strongly on the subject, for if not, the Government would not come down as they ought to do next Session, and make the further reductions which were yet absolutely required. He called, therefore, on the Committee to mark their sense of this vote, and in that manner to strengthen that portion of the Government which was really favourable to the reduction of the public burthens.Mr. Portman
 said, he had had the intention of taking the sense of the House upon making certain deductions from the salaries of Officers in the Admiralty. His plan would be, to effect a deduction of fifteen per cent from the salaries of the higher officers, ten per cent from those of a lower class, and five per cent from the lowest. He thought it fair that those officers should not be the only persons to escape the effects of the change which had taken place in the currency; but as it was the intention of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, to bring that subject under the notice of the House, he was induced to postpone the proposition for the present.Mr. Portman
, adverting to the petition presented by the hon. Member for Clare, from the City of Drogheda, on a former evening, said, he was instructed to say that the statements of the hon. Member respecting the Charitable Fund of the Corporation— taken, of course, from that petition—were wholly unfounded. The Corporation challenged inquiry, and was willing to submit to the most rigid investigation.Mr. Moore
 said, that the Mayor was anxious to submit his conduct to investigation. The law opinions obtained by the petitioners were given on their own partial and incorrect representations. They had no right to sell pigs in Smithfield, which was held for cattle, exclusive of pigs; and the number of cattle being very great, pigs were kept out of the market.Mr. G. Moore
701 said, he would only observe that the petitioner had been appointed to his office by the guild of merchants, whose right to make the appointment had been recognized for several centuries. In consequence of complaints made against the petitioner, his conduct had been subjected to examination before a competent authority, the charges were regularly made, time was given him to answer them, and having failed to answer them he was suspended from his office, which suspension he illegally resisted. His conduct was then brought before the Lord Mayor and Board of Dublin, and after council had been heard on both sides, they came to the decision of which the petitioner complained. His complaint therefore, was, in fact, an appeal from an authorized tribunal, to the House of Commons. With respect to the amount of the tax levied on the public for metage,
701Mr. G. Moore
 observed, that the return contemplated by the hon. Member for Aberdeen could not be made out correctly; for instance, as regarded the borough which he (Lord Nugent) represented. In 1818, 1,400 persons voted at the election in that borough; and since that period many who possessed the right to vote there had lost it, while the right to vote had been acquired since by others, who did not vote on that occasion.Lord Nugent
 was of opinion, that some new light should have been thrown upon the subject, before the appointment of the commission had taken place.Mr. Bright
 should support the Amendment, for he saw no reason for keeping up such an expensive establishment for the superintendence of only 9,000 men.Mr. Bright
 concurred with the hon. Member for Corfe Castle, and stated that he would not vote against the ministry as to the abolition of the office of Treasurer of the Navy, because such a vote would have implied a censure on the Administration.Mr. Labouchere
 wished to know if the situation of those who took out no licenses would not be better than that of the public brewers.Mr. Benett
 wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to refund the duty on Beer to those who had a stock on hand; otherwise those persons, he conceived, would be placed at a great disadvantage by the intended abolition, of duty, as compared with those who would not purchase stock till after the 10th of October. If the drawback were not allowed, only a very small stock of Beer would be kept up, and none would be brewed but for immediate consumption. The consequences too would be injurious to the agricultural interest, for the sale of old Barley, for the purpose of Malting, would be entirely stopped.Mr. Benett
721l.l.l.l.720l.l.l.l. said, the hon. Member had observed, that the office of Paymaster of the Marines was expensive and unnecessary; the first it confessedly was; but as to the second, it appeared from the hon. Gentleman's own admission, that these duties which, he contended, might be transferred to another department, were numerous and important. Now, his strong impression was, that there could be no more sure way of creating confusion in the public service, and imposing on the country an increased expense, than that of uniting the Marine barrack department with the Ordnance. The Paymaster of the Marines did a great deal of duty in his double capacity; for he was not only a Pay-officer, but an officer of inspection and control: he was Paymaster and Inspector-general of the Marines. Now, the hon. Member, in the first place, asked why the Marine barracks were not brought under the superintendence of the Board of Ordnance. But, in fact, there was an essential difference between the management of the Army barracks and those for Marines. In the first, there was a constant change of inmates: one regiment marched out—another supplied its place; but the other barracks were constantly occupied by Marines, and therefore the accounts must necessarily be kept in a very different manner. The attention of the House had been called to the state of these barracks at different times; and, he believed, it must be admitted on all hands, that the expenditure, under the superintendence of the Paymaster of Marines, had been diminished in as great a degree as it could have been under any other Administration. The numbers in the barracks were invariably the same, and the average amount of expenditure for the seven years previous to the appointment of the Paymaster was 16,800721l.l.l.l.720l.l.l.l.Mr. Croker
 thought, the question respecting the repeal of the Union with Ireland of too much importance to be disposed of hastily; it involved the dismemberment of his Majesty's dominions, and therefore he should move, that the debate on the Petition be adjourned till Wednesday next.Mr. Lockhart
, yielding to what appeared to be the general feeling of the House, withdrew his amendment.Mr. Lockhart
707 said, he was one of those who wished to cement and strengthen the union between the two countries. At the same time he thought that feelings and opinions had been ascribed to his hon. and learned friend, the Member for Clare, without any just cause. As to the Petition, it appeared to him that to reject it
707Mr. Hume
 could not see what difficulty there was in the way of the returning officer making a return of the numbers that had actually voted, taken from, the poll-books at the last election in each particular case.Mr. Hume
d.s.l. objected to the taking of all these votes together. They should be i taken separately. He submitted that the first vote, that of 52,216d.s.l.Mr. Hume
 inquired to what purpose the grants for nautical inquiries had been applied?Mr. Hume
719l.l.l.718l.l.d.s.l.l. wished to call the attention of the House to a portion of this Estimate which had been incidentally mentioned a few nights ago; he meant the sum of 2,960719l.l.l.718l.l.d.s.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.724 said, that his object was, to reduce the grant by one-half, and he proposed a vote which would have the effect of producing that end now, if at all. As to any resolution that pledged the House
l.l.l.724Mr. Hume
l. wished to know who were to be the commissioners, how they were to be paid, and where they were to sit, and how long they were to continue their investigations. It appeared by a return for which he had moved, that commissioners had already cost the country upwards of 1,000,000l.Mr. Hume
 was desirous to know what was the purpose for which it was proposed to go into committee on this evening? was it intended to vote the Ordnance Estimates, upon this occasion, in a Committee upon the Navy Estimates, and before the House was prepared to go into the Ordnance Estimates? He should certainly object to such a course of proceeding, though he should have no objection that a certain sum, which might be necessary to meet the present expenses of this department should be now taken upon account.Mr. Hume
, adverting to the question of the Deccan Prize Money, begged to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, one' of the trustees for its distribution, in what state that property now was, as great anxiety existed on the part of many of the claimants to know when it was probable they would receive the remainder of their dividends.Mr. Hume
Order hoped that the House would not consent to any compromise, but decide the question upon principle. He did not see in what respect the King could be said to want patronage, or how he could use it to save the public purse. [OrderMr. Hume
l. said, he saw a charge in the Estimates of 425l.Mr. Hume
 contended that the bankers at the outports would supply the money that was wanted. The hon. Member read several extracts from the evidence given before the Finance Committee, to shew that Sir H. Parnell was warranted in believing that money was transmitted in large sums to the out-ports. The same evidence also shewed that the Paymasters of Marines could get silver from bankers at the out-ports, without any expense, and he did not know therefore why the Navy Pay Office could not do the same.Mr. Hume
 expressed himself satisfied with the declaration of the hon. Gentleman.Mr. Hume
, in moving that there be laid before the House a List of the Fees allowed to be taken by the Provisional Assignee, the Brokers, Messengers, and other officers of the Insolvent Court, together with their aggregate amount during each year, from 1814 to 1829, observed, that it was understood when this court was appointed, that the public were to be relieved from the payment of fees of every description except to a very small amount. He was however informed, that the payment of fees fell very heavy on the suitors of that Court, and as the Act was about to expire, he thought it quite right that the House should be put into possession of all the information which could be collected on the subject. Returns ordered.Mr. Hume
l.695l. staled, that he should likewise move for returns tending to show the evil effects of the existing Corn-laws, which he presumed it was intended to submit to the-revision of Parliament during the present Session. If, indeed, no more efficient Member could be induced to bring the subject before the House, it was his own intention to do so before the expiration of the Session. In moving for the Returns now required, he wished to enable Parliament to estimate the probable amount of our revenue, if only a moderate duty, such as he had formerly recommended, should be laid on. Under such a duty, the revenue derived from this branch of trade would have amounted, he believed, to about 1,190,000l.695l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. in moving for a copy of the Treasury Minute respecting the retired allowances of the officers engaged in the late lottery establishments, stated, that he understood there were five individuals receiving an income of 1,473l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l. moved that the sum of 200,000l.Mr. Perceval
 said, he considered that the repeal of the Union would bestow the government of Ireland on the Roman Catholics.Mr. Trant
706 thought the people of Ireland should take care how they presented sectarian petitions of this kind, because it might happen that those who passed the measure of last Session for the relief of the Roman Catholics, would, from such petitions, see the necessity of repealing that Act, and excluding all Catholics from the House. It was time too for the Protestants of Ireland to think of moving for the repeal of
706Mr. Trant
 supported the Amendment, in order to compel Ministers to immediate economy.Mr. Trant
 said that was not the case.Sir G. Clerk
d.s.l. then moved, that 32,033d.s.l.Sir George Clerk
 said, that each of the Members who opposed the vote, did it on different grounds, though only the hon. Member who spoke last advocated the abolition of the office of Treasurer of the Navy. He had been already answered by the hon. Baronet (Sir George Warrender). As to what had been stated by the hon. Member for Corfe Castle, he must reply, that it had been regulated that the Treasurer of the Navy was to be made an efficient officer, and the paymastership put an end to, as soon as the meritorious officer who now held that place could be provided for. The present grant, as proposed, was only for six months; and it was the firm intention of Government to provide for the gallant officer who held the place in some other way as soon as possible.Sir George Clerk
l.l. said, no such pledge had been given by him, or with his knowledge. He always understood that it rested upon the contingency of Government being able to find some other suitable office for the present occupier. What he had then stated was, that there would be an immediate saving of 1,000l.l.Sir G. Clerk
732 said, if the hon. Member had but looked a few pages further in
732Sir George Clerk
d.s.l.l., in proceeding with the remaining Navy Estimates, said, that the first vote he had to propose regarded the civil departments connected with the Navy, comprising the Admiralty, Navy-pay Office, Victualling Office, &c. In this Estimate a reduction to the amount of 1,710d.s.l.l.Sir George Clerk
d.s.l. said, if it were considered more convenient for the Committee, he would propose the votes separately. The hon. Baronet then moved that the sum of 52,216d.s.l.Sir G. Clerk
723l. defended the propriety of the arrangements now made in the department, and contended that no alteration of the sort proposed could be anything but injurious. In his opinion, the department, as it was now constituted, was most economically managed, and considering what its duties were, he did not think that the sum of 3,000723l.Sir G. Clerk
 replied, that the principal expense under this head was caused by the experiments made under the control and direction of Sir G. Brisbane.Sir G. Clerk
728, though he wished to see economy, could not consent to the proposed reduction. The office of Treasurer of the Navy had always been held by a person of respectability, and it was important for the service of the country that it should so continue to be held. The Finance Committee of 1817 had re-
728Sir George Warrender
 said, that the Committee had been given to understand that the system of sending money to the out-ports was by covered waggons, provided with a guard, and therefore he supposed that the system described by his hon. friend must be a very modern improvement. He believed that even the present method was not the most economical, for Ireland was provided with silver money without the expense of conductors and military guards.Sir H. Parnell
722 said, that the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty might have urged all his present arguments against the former consolidation of the Barrack Department with the Board of Ordnance, which had been found so beneficial. Indeed no measure of economy was ever recommended which did not find Gentlemen to oppose it, in speeches similar to that the House had just heard, sitting on the Treasury benches. It was their business to persuade the House that reductions would not benefit the nation. The speech of the hon. Gentleman was not only an answer to the hon. Member for Aberdeen, it went to contradict the Treasury Minute of 1822, by which the consolidation of offices was recommended, its utility explained, and its applicability to all departments enforced. He was convinced that if this speech were written out, and so subjected to the examination of the Committee, that they would see reason to decide that it contained more sophistry than solid reasoning. Unless the House were to resist such sophistry, and say once for all, you must reduce your expenditure, we will give you no more than a certain sum—he was afraid no extensive reduction would ever take place. Before he gave his opinion upon totally abolishing the office, he wished to say that the present Paymaster of the Marines, whose merits he had admitted, had certainly made several reductions in his department, but this by no means proved those reductions to be sufficient. With all that Gentleman's zeal and ability, however, the reductions he was capable of making would not satisfy the public. After considering the matter well, he was convinced that the office might be done away. There were two sets of officers to two sets of barracks, and two sets of hospitals and two sets of accounts, one set of each being unnecessary. The Finance Committee was convinced that no part of the management of the public money required more immediate revision, for the present system gave no security, while it was confused and complicated. In his opinion all payments whatever should be made by a distinct department,
722Sir H. Parnell
 was disposed to give his hon. friend credit for his exertions; but he believed that the bankers at the out-ports must conduct their business on different principles from other bankers, if they could not advance what money would be required.Sir M. White Ridley
 saw no objection to the Petition being received. There was no Parliamentary law which forbade it; and as to its prayer attacking the Constitution, they ought to recollect that they received petitions against the Parliament itself, which was also a part of the Constitution. The Union was an act of the Legislature, which the Legislature might repeal. He did not say that it would be prudent or politic to review that measure, but he protested against the doctrine that there was any law or practice which made the presentation of such a petition an impropriety.Sir M. W. Ridley
699 said, that although there might be various opinions as to the cause of the present distress, no person denied that distress existed to a great extent. He knew that the people of Manchester were exposed to much suffering, though
699Sir G. Phillips
 wished to know whether the inquiries of the commissioners would be extended to the Canadas?Sir R. Wilson
 said, that whatever might have been his opinion of the Union formerly, he was convinced that the repeal of the Act now would be productive of the most mischievous effects. It was his deliberate opinion, and he spoke it advisedly, than any attempt to cause its repeal now would be fraught with the destruction of Ireland, and the deep injury of England. He deprecated the remarks of the hon. Member, calculated as they were to interfere with that harmony and spirit of good feeling which he was delighted to find had so rapidly followed the passing of last year's beneficent measure. Ireland was now tranquillized and prosperous by the removal of all political disabilities, and it was most desirable that no subject of agitation should be introduced there. He hoped the House would receive the Petition, and put an end to that unavailing conversation.Sir J. Newport
 presented a Petition from the occupiers of land in the hundred of Gosford, praying for the Repeal of the Malt and Beer duties.Sir Thomas Gooch
 explained, that he had not attributed to the hon. Member the opinion that there was no distress in the manufacturing districts.Lord Althorp
 expressed his hope that the right hon. Gentleman would not depart from his plans, or if he did, that he would couple the repeal of the Malt tax with that of the Beer tax.Lord Althorp
715 wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, relative to a matter adverted to in his speech the other evening. The right hon. Gentleman then stated that it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to institute an inquiry into the expenditure of the colonies,
715Lord Althorp
 could not conceive how the proposed distribution of duties could complicate the business of the office, when it was recollected that at this moment the Paymaster of Marines was a Military Paymaster, an Inspector of Marines, and a contractor for their clothing, all at the same time, and that the alteration suggested was, to divide these "complicated duties" among different departments. He should vote for the Amendment.Lord Althorp
 observed, that the opposition made to the Amendment was founded on the assertion of the great labour imposed upon the Paymaster of the Marines, in discharge of that part of his duty which consisted of inspecting the marines when on shore. He could not think that objection well founded, or, if it were, it might, as it seemed to him, be easily removed. When at sea, the marines were under the same discipline and regulations as the navy. He could not understand why, when the marines were on shore at different parts of the kingdom, but especially at Portsmouth, where the greater part of the duty was performed, the inspecting officer of the neighbouring garrison could not perform the duty of inspecting the marine corps and the marine barracks. If that were done, and he saw no possible objection to it, the great point on which the defence of the office was now rested would be removed. He trusted that the hon. Member for Aberdeen would either move a resolution to consolidate the offices now, or one which should pledge the House to adopt some step of that kind in the early part of the next Session.Lord Howick
717 agreed with the hon. Member for Aberdeen, and could not but censure the practice of voting in one lump the expense of five different departments. Different Members might object to different portions of these expenses; for example,
717Lord Howick
 said, that he took a similar view of the subject to that taken by the hon. Member for Abingdon. The sum, it must be admitted, was small; but economy was not for him the most important consideration. The House had then in its power to remove one dependant on the Government from the House, and as there was already more than a sufficient number of members of Government in the House, to get rid of one would be a constitutional benefit. The effect of agreeing, to the vote would be, to confirm the Treasurer of the Navy a political officer, dependent upon the continuance of Ministers in their places, for his situation in that House. He did not so much regard the expense as the influence, and he should willingly vote for the total abolition of the office.Lord Howick
 presented a Petition from a hundred in Buckinghamshire, for the application of a portion of parochial Poor-rates to the assistance of voluntary emigrants. The noble Marquis, in supporting the prayer of the Petition, said, he hoped that Government would take the subject into its consideration, as he knew of no more efficient mode of lessening the Poor-rates, and improving the condition of the working classes, than supplying those who were unable to procure work with the means to emigrate to such of the colonies as have a demand for their labour.The Marquis of Chandos
783 begged leave to say, that he intended to bring in a bill to meet the wishes of the petitioners, Should the
783Mr. W. Horton
 concurred in these opinions. He was sure that it would not cost parishes more to send their paupers to colonies, where they might be comfortable and happy, than it cost to keep them at home in want and wretchedness, where so little demand existed for their labour that they were set to break stones to keep them out of mischief.Sir Thomas Freemantle
784 considered the subject to be one of almost equal difficulty and importance. His right hon. friend, the Colonial Secretary had directed his attention to the subject, and had, as a preliminary step, sent out an intelligent person with a view to establish a uniform system of emigration to the North American colonies. With respect to parishes mortgaging their poor-rates, that was a subject of great difficulty, and he did not yet see in what manner Government could take it up, and he was not prepared to give an opinion, either one way or the other. He would not then enter into a discussion of the points alluded to by the petitioners, but should reserve his opinions till his right hon. friend's (Mr. W. Horton's) promised measure was before the House. To the details and principle of that measure he would give his best attention,—the rather, as his right hon. friend had, on a former occasion, displayed such a perfect mastery of the question in all its bearings,—had, in fact, so exhausted the subject that no committee or further inquiry was necessary. He was glad that his right hon. friend had announced his
784Mr. Secretary Peel
 anticipated the best results from the intended bill of the right hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme. It was evident that a part of the evils of the Poor-laws arose from the mal-administration of them.Colonel Wood
786 presented a Petition from the freeholders, inhabitants of the County of Surrey, agreed to at a public meeting regularly convened and most respectably attended. The Petition was moved by one of a class of persons which, he was afraid, was rapidly diminishing—he meant the class of English country Gentlemen. It complained of extreme distress, arising from excessive taxation, of which it prayed for a great reduction, declaring that what had been already done was not sufficient —for great retrenchment in all public departments, and for a Parliamentary Reform. The hon. Member entered into a view of the causes of our present distress, ascribing it to the vast sums we had expended during the late war; subsidizing all the powers of Europe, from Naples to Russia, and to the Bank Restriction Act of 1797. We were now paying the price of those proceedings. They had led to the inundation of the country with paper money; and, subsequently, to the revulsion of 1819. He did not join with some of his friends near him, in wishing to have the currency again depreciated, though he thought that was a subject which wanted further investigation. When he considered too, the great liabilities of the Bank of England, he was rather fearful of what might be the consequences should any convulsion, of which there were not wanting signs, occur on the Continent, He hoped, therefore,
786Mr. Denison
801800 said, that he would confine the few observations he had to make almost exclusively to Ireland, with a view to reply to the statements of the hon. Member for Clare. When that hon. Member found that the usual supporters of the side of the House on which he sat were shrinking from so general an investigation as was proposed by this Motion, and when he found that there was a disposition not to make the state of England a subject of inquiry; he dexterously shifted his ground, and made the vast distress which prevailed in Ireland the reason for demanding inquiry. That severe distress prevailed in many towns in that country he admitted; but the House must recollect, that a committee was sitting up stairs, of which the hon. and learned Gentleman was a Member, to devise the means of alleviating that distress. The whole question therefore, as respected Ireland, was virtually and practically disposed of. If the hon. Member for Clare meant to assert that the distress which now existed in Ireland was greater than that which prevailed at any former period of the history of that country, he (Lord Gower), with every respect for that hon. Member, would beg leave to deny that assertion. He did not understand that there was such an outcry in Ireland now, as to the non-payment of rents, which was heard throughout this country, and that circumstance he took to be a proof that the agricultural interests in Ireland were not suffering as severely now as in former times. In fact, he believed that at no former period were the rents of Irish landlords more punctually paid, or more likely to be so, than at present, and he would ask whether that was evidence of the existence of agricultural distress in Ireland? With regard to the commerce of Ireland, he
801800Lord F. L. Gower
l.l. said, that he could not refuse to give his assent to a Motion, of which the object was, to inquire into the condition of the productive classes of society, with a view of affording them some relief from the distress which at present was pressing them to the earth. He would briefly point out to the House the course which he thought Ministers ought to pursue in the present crisis of the country. They ought to remove at once from 10,000,000l.l.The Marquis of Blandford
806 declared his intention of voting against the proposition for a committee, because he was convinced that the granting of a committee would not relieve the distress which he acknowledged to exist
806Mr. Lennard
817ll816aurcs asininas Midas non habet.815And rule the rural kingdom once our own?"Or shall we mount again our rural throne,No more our homes and pleasant rallies see?Shall we, compell'd by fate's unjust decree,And ne'er, with length of rolling years, return?"Shall we, like exiles, still be doomed to mourn,Here Mr. Peel expressed his dissent.l814llllllsuprema lex,salus populi813nunc patimur longæ pacis mala;812experimentum crucis,lmutato nomine,811ll810l809808, [who had risen with several of the preceding Members, but had never been able to attract the notice of the Speaker,] then proceeded to explain the reasons which induced him to give a vote in opposition, he said, to that of several of his hon. friends with whom he usually acted. He thought that his hon. friend, the Member for Shaftesbury, was entitled to the thanks of the country for bringing this matter so distinctly under the consideration of parliament. It was impossible that a mass of Petitions, complaining so bitterly of distress, could be left unnoticed on the Table of the House of Commons; and though they referred to a subject of magnitude sufficient to deter many persons from bringing it forward, still such was the patriotism of his hon. friend, that he had not shrunk from the task of undertaking it. He had paid great attention to the course which this debate had taken, and he was now compelled to say, that his mind was confirmed as to the necessity of complying with the prayer of these petitions, not merely by the arguments of those who spoke in favour of his hon. friend's Motion, but also by the arguments of those who spoke against it. He could not concur with his noble friend, the Member for Northamptonshire, that it was any reason for not granting" this committee to the prayers of the people of England, that the vote of the House of Commons in favour of such a proposition might be construed into a vote of censure against the Cabinet. He did not think that there was any reason in the other notion of his noble friend, that if such a committee were granted, it would end in being a delusion on the public. If there were any truth in that argument, then all the functions of that House must in future be considered as a mere delusion upon the public. As to the distress of the country, it appeared to be at length admitted in some degree by the Ministers, but still it was
817ll816aurcs asininas Midas non habet.815And rule the rural kingdom once our own?"Or shall we mount again our rural throne,No more our homes and pleasant rallies see?Shall we, compell'd by fate's unjust decree,And ne'er, with length of rolling years, return?"Shall we, like exiles, still be doomed to mourn,Here Mr. Peel expressed his dissent.l814llllllsuprema lex,salus populi813nunc patimur longæ pacis mala;812experimentum crucis,lmutato nomine,811ll810l809808Sir F. Burdett
 did not mean to impute any wish of that kind to the right hon. Gentleman, and had only stated that the depression of the landed interest was the necessary consequence of the policy he had determined to pursue. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he acquitted him of any such intention, for no doubt there were few men who wished more heartily than the right hon. Gentleman for the prosperity of the landed interest; but there was as little doubt that the policy he had adopted, and that which he declared he intended to pursue, must have the tendency he had ascribed to it.Sir F. Burdett
819 said, that he did not much wonder at the opinions of Members who had not been in that House during discussions on the Currency Question, and who now seemed to imagine that a return to a depreciated currency would be a panacea for the evils of the country; but he did much wonder at hearing such opinions fall from the hon. Baronet opposite. He repeated, he could not but fuel the utmost surprise at the unqualified praise bestowed by the hon. Baronet on the Bank Restriction Act, and the more so when he recollected that the hon. Baronet sat in that House during the times of that mock prosperity which he alone had eulogized. The hon. Baronet had referred to the well-known Essay of Hume, but that would not support him in his views in favour of a depreciated currency. In that Essay, Hume stated that the prosperity of the country was connected with prices constantly increasing; but he had not said with a constantly depreciated currency. He had said the contrary indeed; for if the spirit of the Essay was attended to, it would be seen that he never intended to allude to any currency as advantageous to a country if it went on diminishing in value as it increased in amount. Of what avail was it to increase the amount of the currency by continually multiplying the issue of notes, which, exactly as they were multiplied in number, cut off a part of the value from those which had preceded them? The wealth of a country consisted in the abundance of its commodities; increase of commodities required, he knew, an increased amount of currency, but it must be a currency of the same standard and value; and its increase must be created with, and solely in consequence of, the increase of the commodities it represented. The hon. Baronet had been mistaken in asserting that Mr. Tooke had said that prices did not depend on money —meaning on the quantity of money. Mr. Tooke had not said any such thing, but had only referred to the difference between the Mint and the market price of gold, as one of the elements of prices in the country. He must confess that he was much surprised at the praise bestowed by the hon. Baronet on that most odious measure into which this country had been driven in her misfortunes to have recourse to—he meant the Bank Restriction Act. The hon. Baronet had proposed to have recourse again to a Paper Currency, seem-
819Mr. F. Lewis
820 said, that as a representative of a great manufacturing and commercial town, which suffered much, he regretted to say, in common with the rest of the same class in other parts of the kingdom, he could not give a silent vote on a Motion having for its avowed object the relief of that distress, the existence of which no person denied. Although the latest ac-
820Mr. Stanley
s.823 said, that they had been now debating this subject four nights, and were not now much wiser with respect to it than at the commencement of the discussion; and he was sure that if they sat there for a month of Sundays they would be still in the same situation. If the hon. Mover had confined his Motion to the distress of the country he would go to the committee; but there were other matters included in the proposed inquiry which were not necessary. The distress of the country was unprecedented; but Ministers had done much in the way of reduction of taxation, much more than he had expected, or than he should have believed had any body told him of it when he was last on his legs in that House. Imputations had been cast on him by noble Lords and others, that he was sneaking after Ministers, and looking for the loaves and fishes; but he wanted no office or place. He had served his country without emolument; he entered into its service at fifteen years old, as a private soldier—perhaps they did not know that. He had carried "brown bess" on his shoulder for years; but there was only this difference between him and other private soldiers,—that he had the honour
s.823Colonel Wilson
ll826 would vote for inquiry, and in doing so would appeal to any hon. Member acquainted with the city of London whether the trade of that city was ever so much depressed as at present? He was free to admit, that some improvement had taken place within the last fortnight; but it was only that something like a cost price could be obtained for some articles, while a month ago no sale could be effected at any price at all. With reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Bramber a few evenings ago, he begged leave to say, that the hon. Member was in error in asserting that an improvement had taken place in the iron trade. The contrary was the fact, and had been so for the last four or five years, during which immense sums — even millions—had been expended in that trade, without obtaining any profit, and even in some instances suffering an actual loss. It was a fallacy to suppose that because manufacturers went on manufacturing, that therefore they were reaping profitable
ll826Mr. Alderman Thompson
, was confident that Ministers could not adopt a more mischievous measure just now, than a revision of the currency system, as its inevitable effects would be, to create such a run on banks as would destroy all those whose cash deposits were not equal to their issues.Mr. Warburton
 considered, that the distress of the country fell chiefly on the agricultural classes, and that to them, therefore, relief should be chiefly applied.Mr. Rickford
827 rose to reply. The question, he said, after all the discussion, turned on the single fact, that numerous petitions from all classes, and all parties, and all places in the country, had been presented to the House for relief, and that if inquiry were refused, the only inference that the public could draw was, that it was useless to again petition a Parliament that
827Mr. Davenport
 objected to the proposition for voting by ballot, and declared he would always most strenuously oppose it. He should consider such a measure as a fatal blow to the British Constitution.Mr. Harrison Batley
787 begged to add his strongest testimony to the respectability and unanimity of the meeting which had passed the Petition just presented. The House would observe, that this petition was the first which had been presented since the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made his exposition of the financial intentions of the Government. It would appear that the reductions proposed were considered as by no means sufficient to meet the exigencies of the country. He, for one, was far indeed from undervaluing those reductions. He appreciated highly the principle upon which they had been made,—namely, the relief of the labouring population. It was a great been that the poor man's beer should be made cheap, and especially that it should be unaccompanied by licence regulations, which would bring it to his domestic circle; but it must not be forgotten, that to enable him to enjoy his untaxed beer in his own house, the legislature must untax the fuel which he requires to warm his cottage, and the candle which serves to light it. He hoped that the result of that evening's debate would further the great objects of relieving the public distress; that it may be placed in the power of a committee to call for reductions, and to sanction his Majesty's Ministers in the severity of any retrenchments, and the boldness of any reductions, which may be required of them; above all things, that it may urge upon them the
787Mr. C. N. Pallmer
l.l.l. then presented a Petition from the workmen at Barn Elms, complaining of the pressure of the existing distress. That was the residence of a great politician, and great political economist; and the petitioners had entered into some details which were not unworthy of the notice of the House. They complained of the plans to give them relief by emigration, stating, that of the 11,000 parishes in England and Wales, 1,004 did not possess each 100 inhabitants. It was not, therefore the excess of population, but of taxes, which caused their distress. They stated, that the money paid for the relief of the poor did not amount to 6,000,000l.l.l.Mr. C. Pallmer
ls.s.822821 began, by assuring the House that it was not his intention, at that late hour, to trespass on their attention for many minutes, and would therefore claim an indulgent hearing for the little he had
ls.s.822821Mr. Western
824 said, that at that late hour it was not his intention to press upon the patience of the House, which he knew was nearly exhausted. He did not therefore intend to go into the subjects introduced into the discussion at any length. He rose rather for the purpose of correcting an error, an unintentional one, no doubt, into which the hon. Member for Essex had fallen. That hon. Member stated that the people of Essex wished for inquiry; now the fact was, that at the meeting the other day in Essex inquiry was not called for; the great majority of the people in the country did not wish for inquiry. They knew well enough the cause of the distress they suffered, and they plainly enough pointed out the means of relief. If he were not afraid of trespassing too long on the attention of the House, he would venture to reply to some of the extraordinary arguments raised by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Westminster; but though he would not follow
824Mr. D. W. Harvey
 presented a Petition from Colchester, for a Reduction of Taxes, a Reform of Parliament, Triennial Parliaments, Election by Ballot, a Commutation of Tithes, and relief to the productive industry of the country by a commuted Property-tax, and by applying a portion of the Bishops' revenues to lessening the public burthens, to all of which he cordially and cheerfully subscribed, save the prayer for election by ballot.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 in moving that the Petition be brought up, added, that he had certainly stated on a former occasion, that his constituents were averse from voting by ballot, and such was then his belief, but he now found that he was mistaken.Mr. D. W. Harvey,
 also supported this part of the prayer of the Petition, because he knew tradesmen were frequently obliged to vote against their wishes. He had been implored by his constituents not to relax his exertions to obtain voting by ballot, and he should certainly attend to their wishes. He would begin his undertaking by collecting the names of those who supported him on the former occasion.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he concurred in the opinion of his hon. friend, the Member for Montrose, and with permission of the House he would withdraw his Motion.Mr. O'Connell
798797796795l.l.,l.l.,l.,794l.l.,l.l.,l.,793s.792791 said, he felt that some apology was due from him to the House for having been one of the persons who protracted this debate beyond the third evening; but he had an apology, and a strong one, in the sense of the duty he owed his constituents, and in the conviction that the subject ought not to be disposed of without the House being made acquainted with the great and unusual distress of the people of Ireland. The Members of that kingdom constituted more than one-seventh of the whole House of Commons, but yet, with the exception of the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. L. Foster) not one of them had said a word on the question. He avowed that, as he felt it his duty, so he should make it his object, to support one or other of the motions for inquiry. A plain case had been made out
798797796795l.l.,l.l.,l.,794l.l.,l.l.,l.,793s.792791Mr. O'Connell
788 rose to move for certain documents with a view to shew that certain individuals had been punished twice for the same offence. These individuals were first tried for a conspiracy to forge, and then for the crime of forgery. If it were true that these individuals were tried before a competent tribunal, and were about to be tried for the same offence before another tribunal, that would be a violation of justice, according as it was administered here, which ought not to be allowed, and which called for explanation. It was to obtain correct information on the subject, that he should then move "That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House a copy of the record of proceeding before the Magistrates in the Colony of Van Diemen's Land, and of the judgment and sentence whereby Joseph B. Clark, James Cox, Thomas Bird, William Frazer, and Charles Browne, or any of them, were convicted and sentenced to corporal punishment for
788Mr. O'Connell
 admitted that the gallant officer spoke only of "low prices;" but the necessary consequence of low prices, he thought, was low wages.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he coincided in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman, that this matter ought to be seriously taken up; but he regarded the Ministers as the only persons who could successfully carry it into execution. Government, he thought, ought to appoint a committee to investigate the matter first, and point out the proper methods in detail for executing the project. He conjured the House not to deserve the reproach of being unable and unwilling to do any thing to relieve the condition of the poor.Mr. Portman
807 supported the Motion for a committee, and in reply to the observations of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, contended that whatever might be the case in Liverpool, there was in the districts which ranged within a few miles around it, greater distress than in any Other portion of the United Kingdom. Indeed, he could not help wondering at the language employed on this subject by the supporters of Ministers. To judge from their speeches, there was no distress in the country; but unfortunately for their veracity, the Ministers themselves admitted the distress of the country to be the main cause of the defalcation in the last year's Revenue. Besides, the recent proposal to repeal taxes was an indication that Ministers were at last becoming sensible to the existence, if not to the extent, of the distress. He was surprised to hear an hon. friend of his, (Sir Thomas Gooch) who some years ago had proposed an inquiry in its nature precisely similar to the present, rise up to make a speech in opposition to this Motion. The simple question then before the House was, whether the numberless petitions presented from the people were worthy of consideration, and if they were not, why were the people ever allowed to petition at all. To refuse inquiry was to tell them their complaints were of no consequence. He trusted that the people would not forget the votes which might be given that night. He trusted that those Members who now showed them-
807General Gascoyne
 was surprised, that when the right hon. Member for Liverpool was quoting instances of the general wealth and prosperity of the country, he did not look to the very obvious proofs to be derived from the consumption of butchers' meat. If the right hon. Gentleman had looked to the consumption of the town of Birmingham alone, he would have found that that consumption had diminished one-third within the last year. He would support the Motion for a Select Committee, as he thought the numerous petitions presented to the House rendered some inquiry imperative.Mr. Benett
amid loud cries of "Question," [amid loud cries of "Question,"Mr. Irving
825 was one of those who looked to a reduction of the taxes on productive
825Mr. Monck
 said, in seconding the Motion, he must express his satisfaction that his hon. and learned friend had taken it out of his hands, for he was well able to point out what was right or wrong in any legal question. He was further anxious to state that when the Secretary for the Colonies, the right hon. and gallant General opposite (Sir G. Murray) received the first application on this subject, he evinced the greatest readiness to inquire fully into it; in fact, he wrote at once to the Colony for information, requiring at the same time that justice should be done to these persons. From the feelings by which that right hon. Gentleman was then governed, he was persuaded that the sentence of punishment, if it were wrong, and the second sentence for the same offence, would not be carried into execution.Mr. Hume
 supported the prayer of the Petition, particularly that part of it which requested that voting by ballot might be the principle of reform. That was the only means which could be adopted to check the operation of undue influence at elections, and to enable every man to give a conscientious vote. The hon. Member on a former occasion had stated, that his constituents were averse from election by ballot, but he was probably now convinced of the contrary. If the hon. Member canvassed the country, he would probably find that opinion was in general in favour of this measure, because it was the best means of preserving the popular power.Mr. Hume
 added, that so candid and explicit a declaration gave him reason to believe that justice would be done without the papers being produced, and perhaps it would be better if his hon. and learned friend were not to press his Motion.Mr. Hume
 thought it was time that something should be done with the now undeniable superfluous population, for whose labour there was no domestic demand. Under such circumstances, the Act of Elizabeth could not be strictly adhered to. If relief were given only to sick and infirm, many able-bodied men must starve. He hoped, therefore, that either the Government or the right hon. Gentleman would succeed in introducing some practical measure.Mr. R. Colborne
803802 said, that he differed entirely from the noble Lord who had just addressed the House as to the utility of an
803802Mr. Beaumont
 explained that he had not said that the Government had lost, but that it was losing the confidence of the country.Mr. Beaumont
790 rose and spoke as follows:— Sir; I rise to request your indulgence for a very short time upon a subject personally interesting to my own character, and in which, I may add, that of this House is in some degree concerned. Every Gentleman who hears me is aware of the great exertions that are made by the daily press to give to the public the speeches made in this House, within a very few hours after they are delivered. This arduous task is executed, I believe, honestly and impartially; but from the difficulties which attend it, especially in protracted debates, it cannot be matter of surprise that inaccuracies sometimes occur in the reports. Upon ordinary occasions, I am sure that I am the last man who would trouble the House by calling your attention to any trifling inaccuracy; but, Sir, a mistake, which I find has inadvertently been made in sending forth to the world some words, purporting to have been used by me on the motion of my noble friend, respecting Portugal, is not of that immaterial character. In that Debate I spoke very late, and in the course of what I addressed to the House, after comparing the character of the present Ruler of Portugal to that of our Richard the third, I added something to this effect:—That if there should ever arise a struggle for the throne in Portugal, between the usurping uncle and his niece, the legitimate Queen, for one I should not be sorry if the issue of that struggle should complete the parallel:—that it would be something for the honour of high lineage and royal blood if a life of wickedness were closed by a death of courage. I am the more sure that I used expressions to this effect, as I followed them by stating that Don Miguel would then, at least, redeem himself in history from the character which had been given him in another place, of being cowardly because he was cruel. Now, Sir, in some Newspaper of the next morning, I am made to use the following words, "It was to be hoped that he would finish a life of infamy by a death of violence.'' Not having read the Debate, it is only very recently that I have been made acquainted with the fact of this misrepresentation. Every Gentleman must be aware that the
790Mr. Huskisson
804 said, that he did not deny, and the Government did not deny, that distress existed in the country; but he was of opinion that no good whatever would result from the proposed inquiry. He could not help thinking that a great deal of time had been already wasted in the course of the debate as to the question of the degree of the distress. If a ship were in distress, it would be very odd for the sailors, instead of taking steps for its preservation, to set about calculating what was the quantum of danger by which they were surrounded. As it appeared to him, these were not points on which it was for the Government to contend. They were rather to come down to the House, and propose such remedies as seemed to them most effectual. The Government had already shown every disposition to do all in their power to relieve the distress by the remission of taxation, and they should be allowed to proceed in the good work of reduction and retrenchment. There were some Gentlemen who appeared willing to attribute the present state of the country to the measure of 1819, but he could not agree with them. The hon. Member for Callington had said, that a sovereign now would go as far as two then; but if the hon. Gentleman contrived thus with his sovereigns, he certainly could do much more than other people. It was said by an hon. Member, that England had never been so degraded in the eyes of Europe as during the administration of the Duke of Wellington, and that Englishmen never
804Mr. W. Peel
 said, he wished to notice a most extravagant misconception of the hon. Baronet opposite. The hon. Baronet had charged him with having said, that it was a part of his policy to depress the landed interest. Every one who had heard him, except the hon. Baronet, must know that he had said nothing of the kind. His statement was, that during the war a great portion of inferior land had been brought into cultivation in this country, and that now, by the application of steam to navigation, and by the circumstance of the good land of Ireland and Scotland being better cultivated, the produce of the inferior land of this country was likely to be injured in the market. He had stated this as a fact; and he had added, that whatever might be the benefit to the country, he could not but view the consequences with the utmost pain, so far as they affected those individuals who would suffer from them. The hon. Baronet had entirely mistaken him in supposing that he had stated it as part of his settled policy to depress the landed interest.Mr. Peel
 contemplated no such consequences, and did not believe they would be found to follow from the present policy of the Government.Mr. Peel
 suggested, that they should divide upon the Amendment, with the understanding that that division was to decide the whole question. The original Motion was accordingly negatived without a division.Mr. Peel
 rose amidst loud cries of "Question;" but he said, if he were not heard he would move the adjournment of the debate. He stood pledged, at a meeting of yesterday, to some of the most respectable gentlemen in London,—members of the committee for the Relief of the Manufacturing Poor,—that he would state to the House that which they communicated to him, viz., that, from the information they received by means of their communications with all parts of the country, they were convinced that the distress was overwhelming. These gentlemen ought to have an opportunity of being heard in a committee, in reply to the statements of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) who spoke so much of the prosperity of the country.Mr. Trant
 informed the hon. Gentleman, that if the original Motion was withdrawn, there would remain no question before the House, as an amendment upon a motion which was withdrawn could not be put.The Speaker
 said, he meant to make no opposition to the Motion. He had already given the hon. Member for Montrose all the information he then possessed, and he could assure him that on all similar occasions he should feel it his duty to pursue the same course. The moment it was ascertained at the Colonial Office that an irregularity had been committed, orders were immediately sent out to put an end to the punishment. He wished to inform the House that the first proceeding occurred before the present regular court of justice was established in the Colony, and that such irregularities were not likely again to occur.Sir George Murray
799 said, that he had been completely misunderstood by the hon. Member for Clare. He never uttered a word about low wages; and of course never argued in favour of them. What
799Sir H. Vivian
, as a Member of the manufacturing committee, must protest against the statement made in reference to that committee by the hon. Member for Dover. One fact would show, contrary to the declaration of the hon. Member, that the distress had diminished instead of increased within the last few weeks,—namely, that whereas heretofore it was found necessary for the committee to meet once a week, now, owing to a diminution of the distress, they met but once a fortnight.Sir T. Acland
, in explanation, said, that the hon. Baronet had misrepresented him; he had never said that the petitions of the people ought not to be referred to a committee.Sir T. Gooch
l.805 was fully impressed with the conviction that great distress existed in the country, but he thought this Motion for inquiry, if successful, would be productive of no practical good. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had already done much, but he hoped Ministers would redeem the pledge which they had given by doing much more hereafter in the way of remission of taxation. He thought it absolutely necessary that a very great reduction should be made in the taxation which pressed upon the productive classes of the country, who were now principally suffering under the prevailing distress. He should vote against the proposed committee, because he saw no good likely to follow from it. The subjects of inquiry proposed were so multifarious, that the country would be ruined, or relief would come of itself, before that committee could make its report. He conceived that there should he a revision of our system of taxation—that those taxes should be removed which bore principally upon the productive classes of society, and the deficiency supplied by the imposition of a modified property tax. He thought that by
l.805Sir Thomas Gooch
 dissented from the statements of the petitioners, and expressed his regret that they had overlooked the true cause of the distress,—namely, the pressure of inordinate taxation. They had contented themselves, however, with expatiating on the worn-out topic of the currency, without ever adverting to an additional repeal of taxes, which all parties acknowledged to be an unexceptionable mode of administering relief. He would venture to assert, that not one person in a hundred of those who had signed the petition understood the questions on which he gave an opinion. There was no county less subject to political excitement than Worcester, and he was sure that nothing but intolerable distress could have induced the people to petition. It was impossible, under such circumstances to say to what lengths people might go, and therefore he regretted that they engaged in matters which they did not understandColonel Davies
llNullius addictus jurare in verba magistri.848 differed widely from his
llNullius addictus jurare in verba magistri.848Sir F. Burdett
849 was of a different opinion from the boa. Baronet, on the ground
849Mr. Warburton
ssllsssss851 maintained; that the ex-
ssllsssss851Mr. Davenport
ll852 said, the hon. Member for Westminster seemed to think that the House had not treated the question, of the Currency fairly. [Sir F. Burdett said, that was not what he said] At least, the noble Lord continued, he so understood the hon. Baronet. If that were the case the fault must be attributed to the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, who made a speech which turned altogether on that topic; but concluding with a general motion on the state of the currency, he lost the votes of those who were averse from altering it. He was surprised that hon. Members who ascribed all the evils of the country to the change in the currency did not bring forward a substantive proposition respecting it, which might afford the House an opportunity of again expressing a decided opinion on it. That was the manner in which the hon. Member for Essex acted in 1822, when the House, at the recommendation of the President of the Board of Trade, came to a resolution that settled the matter for some years. If that course were now taken, no doubt the argu-
ll852Lord John Russel
 rose to ask the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) who had been represented to have stated that the corporation of the Bank of England and of the East-India Company exercised an improper influence over the city elections, if that were so, because he wished to inform the hon. Member, if it were, that he was labouring under a mistake. He could assure him that the Bank had never exercised the least influence over the City elections, and had it done so, those who arc supposed to be subject to its power would have freely expressed their opinions on the matter. While he was on his legs he wished to add, that his statement on a former evening relative to the gold currency, included the quantity issued by the Bank of England subsequent to the last returns.Mr. Ward
 admitted having expressed the opinions alluded to, but he meant it to apply to all such great corporations, and in that sense he had no doubt the remark was correct. He believed, however, that at the last City election the Bank had exercised no influence. Other public bodies however, interfered, and it was a notorious fact, that if the Lord Mayor be a candidate, his office ensures him 500 votes. The hon. Member's question he understood to apply particularly to the Bank, and that body he was bound to say did not exercise any influence at the late election.Mr. Warburton
, in answer to the noble Lord's challenge, begged to say that he would, before the close of the Session, submit a distinct motion respecting the Currency, which would afford the opportunity of discussion for which the noble Lord seemed anxious.—Petition to be printed;Mr. Davenport
 complained of the hon. Member having misrepresented what he had said of the petitioners.Colonel Davies
 said, his hon. friend had also misunderstood what fell from him.Sir F. Burdett
, in support of the prayer of the petition, contended that it was necessary that Government should give some employment to the manufacturers of Arms, otherwise, in the event of a war, the means of supply might be found wanting. He was convinced that the Ordnance in undertaking the manufacture itself, acted from the best motives, but at the same time he must assert, that Government ought to trust for a supply to the private manufacturers. That they were capable of meeting its demands was proved by the fact that between 1803 and 1815 not less than 3,277,000 stand were manufactured in this country.Alderman Thompson
 begged leave to remind the hon. Member, that the subject involving the prayer of the petition had been discussed at length in that House, and that the opposition to it did not arise from the Ministers, but from hon. Members connected with the landed interest. Ministers were on that occasion anxious to promote the object the petitioners had in view, and would now do the same thing so far as was compatible with the existing Corn-laws. Government was aware that the measure would supply employment to many unemployed mills, and it was desirous to accede to the prayer of the petition.Mr. Herries
 presented a similar Petition from the gun-makers of London.Alderman Thompson
 supported the prayer of the Petition. He wished to take that opportunity of asking, why a manufacture of knives and forks was carried on at the Ordnance Works at Deptford or Lewisham, he did not know which, to the injury of the Sheffield and Birmingham cutlers, and the cutlers of the metropolis.Alderman Wood
, in very few words, seconded the Motion.Colonel Davies
904903902ll901l900899898897 said, that although there were several of the general principles laid down by the hon. Member for Dover in which he was most happy to concur, and although he thought it next to impossible not to concur in the principle with which the hon. Member concluded—that it was expedient "to make a revision of the taxes, so that the means of paying the sums voted
904903902ll901l900899898897The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not consider the course of Government to have gone far enough, and therefore declared his intention of supporting this motion for a Committee, as he was anxious to open the whole subject of the taxation of the country. The taxation of the country was the main cause of its distress, and though he differed from many of the positions laid down by the hon. member for Dover, he had no objection to submit the whole of it to the examination of a committee. Why any objection should be made to its appointment he could not conceive; for it ought not to be forgotten, that if the Finance Committee had been permitted to sit another year, it would have taken this very subject into consideration. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted that a commutation of taxes had at one time been under the consideration of his Majesty's Government. He was sorry, as such had been the case, that some commutation had not been adopted. He thought that there was no better mode of relieving the distress of the country than by commuting the taxes which pressed on the lower, for taxes which affected the richer classes of society. He conjured the House to lose no time in making that commutation, as the distress was urgent, and might be beyond relief if it were not speedily alleviated. He had heard it represented that our exports at the present moment were greater than at any former period. If that fact were true, it was evident that there must be something rotten at heart, when it existed in conjunction with the extreme distress which was admitted to pervade the country.Mr. Bankes
 was surprised that Government should object to the Motion of the hon. member for Dover on account of its general nature, when they had consented to the appointment of the Finance Committee, the objects of which were of a much more general character. There was one point upon which he could not concur with the hon. Mover,—namely, granting the Government a vote of credit to meet any deficiencies; nor could he concur in the recommendation of the hon. member for Dorsetshire to impose a property-tax in time of peace. As to the professions of the right hon. Gentleman, that it was his wish to reduce Taxation, he believed that not one farthing would have been taken off had not the House insisted on it; and he further believed that if the House would look close after the Estimates, that it might compel the right hon. Gentleman to mate still further reductions.Mr. Maberly
906 next addressed the House, but was heard very indistinctly. As far as we could collect, he expressed himself as follows:—He believed that the country would experience no material relief from a change of the system of taxation. He did not mean to deny that the reduction of taxation upon particular articles would increase the consumption of them. He was desirous of seeing an experiment of that nature tried, but unfortunately the recent measures of Ministers had rendered that impossible. He could not avoid declaring, however, that in his opinion, the House of Commons had never lent its sanction to a more profligate arrangement than that which left the country without a sixpence of surplus revenue. The hon. Mover who proposed to reduce taxation to the extent which he had stated in his speech, contented himself with merely hinting at the ways and means which he would substitute for them. In fact, the only suggestion he had offered upon this point was borrowed
906Mr. Baring
 supported the Motion.Mr. E. Denison
856 said, so many motions had been brought on at various times by hon. Gentlemen on going into Committees of Supply, that the House had now arrived almost at the Easter holidays without having got through one quarter of the Estimates of the year; but if there was any Gentleman who had any motion
856The Chancellor of the Exchequer
857 said, Sir, I had given notice of an Address to the Crown to extend the right of Trial by Jury to New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land: I now rise with great pleasure to withdraw this Motion, as it has been rendered unnecessary by the fair and liberal way in which I have been met by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He has agreed that an Order of Council should forthwith issue, directing that Juries, formed of the Colonists, and with all the incidents of English Juries, should be granted to all defendants in New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land, where the conduct or character of the Government or Governor, or of the Executive Council, or any of its members, should be concerned; also in cases where any conflicting interest or party feeling existed between the civil and military classes,—instead of the present Jury of seven officers, selected by the Governor." This ought, I think, to satisfy the Colonists, and those who interest themselves on their behalf in this House; and I do assure the right hon. Gentleman that I receive this concession made so freely out of this House with much greater pleasure than if a majority of the House had forced upon him the resolution I had this night intended to move. The effect will be very different in the Colony. The enlightened portion of the Colonists must see that the Government is not one of its tyrannical masters; but that there are those now who are intrusted with the management of Colonial affairs who are willing to concede their fair desires, and to impart the full blessings of a Constitution which is the heritage of the Colonist. Before I sit down, if I might hope that any advice of mine would reach the Colonies, it would be this—that the liberal portion of the Press in that colony should abstain from that coarseness of vituperation and harshness of expression towards all who are placed in authority which I have been sorry to remark in the researches I have been obliged to make in preparing for this Motion. Such feelings are, in all states of society, to be lamented; but in a free country more particularly so,
857Mr. Jephson
l said, that under ordinary circumstances he would have been content if the question of taxation had remained in the hands of his Majesty's Ministers; but observing what they had done, and feeling that it was necessary that one or the other side of the House should call for measures that would equalize the income and the expenditure, he should certainly vote for this Motion. The gallant General who had just spoken complained of a Property-tax as one that would reduce considerably the income of the landed proprietor. But the other right hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Huskisson) had very properly said, the other night, that the great fault of the present system of taxation was, that it rested too heavily on the industrious classes. If that were so, what could be fairer than that the landed proprietor should be called on to alleviate that pressure by sacrificing a portion of his income? It was said, that if this committee were appointed, the necessary consequence must be the establishment of a Property-tax. Now this he looked upon to be a premature assumption. It would be the duty of that committee to look to the various sources of revenue, and to inquire whether, by judicious management, the amount now derived from them might not be increased so as to meet the expenditure of the country. If they found that they could not effect that object by an alteration in the existing system, then, and then only, it would be right for them to resort to the measure of which the gallant General had spoken. The hon. Member then proceeded to state that there were many articles, and amongst them timber, from which a much larger revenue might be raised than they produced at present. If, for instance, the duty on timber imported from the Baltic were placed on a level with the duty of timber imported from Canada, there would be a gain to the country of 1,500,000lMr. Warburton
910 said, that in his opinion, the Motion had a two-fold, nay, he might assert, a three-fold object. It went first to effect a certain specific reduction of taxation. It next embraced an inquisition into the whole state of the taxation of this country,—an inquisition to be carried on in a committee which the hon. member for Dover proposed, and of which he, of course, if the Motion were agreed to, would be at the head. In addition to this, as had been stated by almost every Gentleman who had spoken on the Question, it might be expected that the committee would consider a proposition for a Property-tax, in substitution of many taxes which the hon. Member was of opinion ought to be repealed. Now, speaking of the hon. Gentleman's budget, he must say that it was particularly unfortunate. Unquestionably it was not received, even by the hon. Gentlemen who supported the Motion, with any tiling like the favour that was shown to his right hon. friend, when on a former evening he made his financial statement. The hon. member for Callington called the proposition of the hon. Mover a profligate proposal, and the hon. member for Dorsetshire took the earliest opportunity of reprobating this extraordinary budget. For his own part, he would ask, what could be a more preposterous, what a more miserable expedient, than the raising of successive loans by votes of credit? The hon. Member said, only one vote; but he would say, successive votes of credit; because, if they once took that course, they would, of necessity, be compelled to pursue it. He must, on the grounds stated by his right hon. friend, object to the policy of such a committee as that which was now proposed. For his own part, he conceived that no benefit could result from a committee in which, as it would embrace an investigation into the
910Mr. Herries
913pro tantol912 said, that at that late hour he should address himself to the considerations of paramount importance arising out of the question before the House, and thereby he should disembarrass himself of the details into which the hon. member for Dover had entered. The proposal was,— a proposal made for the first time in Parliament,—that a Select Committee should be appointed for revising and considering the whole system of the taxation of the country. It was something wonderful that it had never occurred before, that the whole power of the Government and of the Parliament should be thus delegated to a select committee of twenty-one. It was a practice founded on good sense, that the House should reserve to itself the power which the hon. Member wished to devolve on a select committee; that the House, possessing ample information upon all the necessary points, should not transfer to any delegated portion of it those powers which a House of Commons ought to exercise of itself. And let it be recollected that the House of Commons had fought the battles of taxation! against Ministers upon former occasions without committees. Even in the time of Sir Robert Walpole the Excise tax was rejected by the House without any inquiry in a committee. The Shop-tax, proposed by Mr. Pitt, had been defeated without any committee. In 1807, Lord Henry Petty proposed a duty on iron, which had been defeated in that House. In 1817 the House had defeated the intention of the Government to continue the property-tax; and with respect to this tax, he would advise the House, whether a Property-tax were desirable or not, to start fair on the question, and not have it decided in a select committee. He would give no opinion on the expediency of a Property-tax; but he advised Gentlemen in that House, and
913pro tantol912Mr. Secretary Peel
 explained, that his objection to the Motion arose as well from its being nearly unprecedented in Parliament as because the committee it recommended would be unlimited in its character.Mr. Peel
l said, that the relief of 5,000,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in presenting a Petition in favour of the Selby and Liverpool Railway Bill, from the inhabitants of Lincoln, said, he availed himself of that opportunity to rectify an error which had gone abroad with respect to what he had uttered in the late debate on the motion of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury. That morning a letter had been put into his hands, purporting to come from a respectable inhabitant of London, and written under the misconception which this inaccuracy in his speech had naturally originated. He was represented to have stated that Mr. Jacob or Mr. Poole would have been roughly handled in the event of their trusting themselves in Lincoln. But such an innuendo he had never intended to convey. What he did really say was, that he regretted the noble Duke should not have had recourse to better means of obtaining information, before he depended upon such authorities for the price of Corn as Mr. Jacob, or for the price of Wool and Meat as Mr. Giblett. In noticing this misstatement, he could not forbear to add, that he had no reason to complain of the newspaper press generally. He should now postpone his notice of a motion for the accommodation of reporters, until Thursday, the 13th of May.Colonel Sibthorp
896895lll894l893ScotsmanThe Timesds892lddd891lllllslldsdssds890lllssds889lllsl888sslsssss887l886lldslsldsll885ldslllld.,sdsldsdsldsdslssdss884***lllsllsld883**lllsllsldslds*882**s*lllldsds881llllllllsllslllsslldsdsll880dsdsdsdsdsllllds879£.15,592,000
£.15,592,0001,699,000Wine
1,699,000Wine2,921,000Foreign Spirits
2,921,000Foreign Spirits2,793,000Tobacco
2,793,000Tobacco3,177 000Tea
3,177 000Tea£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.15,592,000
£.15,592,0001,699,000Wine
1,699,000Wine2,921,000Foreign Spirits
2,921,000Foreign Spirits2,793,000Tobacco
2,793,000Tobacco3,177 000Tea
3,177 000Tea£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugarl878lllllllll877876llllllllll875sddllll874sslldd873dlllld872dldsd224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.ss227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.dsdsddlll871l870ld869**llsll*868***ll867866**ll*ll865864863La Richesse de la Hollande862Ducit opes, animumque ferro.""Per damna per cædes, ab ipso861860859858, in bringing forward his Motion on the subject of Taxation, spoke as follows:—Sir; In rising to make the Motion of which I have given notice, I have to acknowledge the courtesy of my honourable friend in postponing his very important notice; a courtesy and kindness which I should never have thought of demanding upon personal grounds; but which the vast importance, as well as the nature of the Motion which I have the honour of bringing under the consideration of Parliament, may fairly claim; especially when, as I am happy to remark from what has passed in previous debates, the subject has already attracted so much attention. It is painful to me at any time to solicit the indulgence of the House on my own behalf, and that feeling is increased upon the present occasion, when the importance of the subject, of which I propose to treat, renders me more than usually sensible of my own in-competency to do justice to it, and when I shall be compelled by its nature to trespass upon the patience of my hearers for a more than usual length of time. The deep conviction, however, which I entertain, that no subject was ever submitted for deliberation of greater importance than this, whilst it supports me in the task which I have undertaken to perform, gives me ground to hope that I shall not ask in vain for that indulgence which this House is never backward in extending to those who claim it upon such grounds. Sir, I am aware that in introducing so large a subject, as that of a great part of the taxation of this country, to the consideration of Parliament, I may expose myself to the charge of presumption. I may be told, that I am undertaking a task which does not become a Member of this House unconnected with official station, and holding no responsible situation;—that I am trespassing upon the province of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whose immediate duty it is, to regulate the financial concerns of the empire: but I trust that the nature of the Motion which I have in view will serve to acquit me of such an accusation. I do not venture to propose to the House any plan of financial reform, any positive proposition of change; I am conscious that to do so would not be-
896895lll894l893ScotsmanThe Timesds892lddd891lllllslldsdssds890lllssds889lllsl888sslsssss887l886lldslsldsll885ldslllld.,sdsldsdsldsdslssdss884***lllsllsld883**lllsllsldslds*882**s*lllldsds881llllllllsllslllsslldsdsll880dsdsdsdsdsllllds879£.15,592,000
£.15,592,0001,699,000Wine
1,699,000Wine2,921,000Foreign Spirits
2,921,000Foreign Spirits2,793,000Tobacco
2,793,000Tobacco3,177 000Tea
3,177 000Tea£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.15,592,000
£.15,592,0001,699,000Wine
1,699,000Wine2,921,000Foreign Spirits
2,921,000Foreign Spirits2,793,000Tobacco
2,793,000Tobacco3,177 000Tea
3,177 000Tea£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugar
£.5,002,000Nett produce of Sugarl878lllllllll877876llllllllll875sddllll874sslldd873dlllld872dldsd224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134
224,86490,6036,956Cwts. 68,134Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600
155,59555,5026,140Cwts. 29,600Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Bottle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.ss227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615
227,47683,94020,607Cwts. 67,615Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.
Battle.Crown.Broad.Flint & Plate.dsdsddlll871l870ld869**llsll*868***ll867866**ll*ll865864863La Richesse de la Hollande862Ducit opes, animumque ferro.""Per damna per cædes, ab ipso861860859858Mr. Poulett Thomson
 briefly replied. He complained that those hon. Members who followed him in opposition to his Motion left out of consideration the real merits of what he said, and rested their objections upon inferences as to the object of his Motion which he had never intended to draw. They never stated that his proposal would not prove beneficial, but confined themselves to appealing to the feelings of those who were known to be opposed to a Property-tax, which it formed no part of his plan to propose. It was not his wish to delegate the powers of the House to a Committee. All he asked was for an opportunity to get information on the subject of taxation, which would be useful in directing the House in its future proceedings as to what taxes were best to be continued or repealed.Mr. P. Thomson
917 said, he should be reluctantly compelled to vote against the Motion of his hon. friend, on the ground that such a Committee as he recommended would supersede the House of Commons in the exercise of its legitimate and natural functions. Sugar, assessed taxes, stamp duties, were
917Mr. Western
855s presented a Petition from certain Millers in Essex, praying that they might be permitted to take foreign corn out of bond, for the purpose of exporting the flour to be manufactured out of that corn, on the payment of a duty of 4855sMr. Western
 said, he did not think that putting down the Ordnance establishment at Enfield would be of any benefit to the manufacturers of Arms, for the Ordnance had already a million stand of Arms in its possession. As to the knives and folks alluded to by the worthy Alderman, he could assure him that no such manufacture at Deptford, or any where else, was carried on under the control of the Ordnance.—Petition to be printed.Mr. Dugdale
 conceived that the supply of Arms should be left, like that of any other manufacture, to the competition of capitalists, and should not be a Government manufacture. For a considerable period during the late war, a musket a minute, including night and day, was manufactured in the districts from which the Petition came. Had the establishment at Enfield been broken up several years ago, the country would have saved a great deal, and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would persevere, when the time came for voting the Ordnance estimates, in his intention of resisting the vote for that establishment.Mr. Littleton
l853 presented a Petition from the Gun-makers of Birmingham, against the intended abolition of the Arms' Proof-house of that town. This Petition, he said, from its importance well deserved the attention of the House. This persons who signed it carried on a trade
l853Mr. Lawley
850 expressed his surprise, that Members of that side of the House should consider it a great thing, forsooth, that the petitions of the people were favourably received, and to him it seemed most arrogant in Members to run down the petitions of any class of people. What reason had those who asserted, that to ascribe our distress to a change in the currency was a proof of ignorance, to give for their assertion. He was of the same opinion as the petitioners whom the hon. Member for Worcester had branded with ignorance. Nothing indeed could be clearer than the fact that prices fell when the quantity of money was lessened, and rose when that was increased. A depreciation of price and general distress among the working classes had invariably followed a contraction of the currency, from whatever cause it might have arisen. He did not mean to say, however, that a reduction of taxation would not alleviate the distress, for it was plain that a portion of the charges which weighed on the people would by that means be removed. He would not assert that it was possible wholly to get rid of distress by reducing taxation, but he would assert that to give much relief a much larger portion of the taxes must be taken off. Those who had endeavoured to obtain an inquiry into the cause of the distress, and
850Mr. Bright
 said, the right hon. Secretary had laid good grounds for the House to reject the Motion. It was the duty of the House to keep this power to itself, and not intrust it to a committee. The House should be jealous of parting with its power in respect to taxation. He never could consent to the imposition of a Property-tax.Mr. Bright
 stated, in explanation, that he opposed the Motion because it was, he thought, unconstitutional to refer such a subject to a committee.Mr. Bright
, in rising to postpone, at the request of his hon. friend, the Member for Dover, his motion respecting the state of the Judicature and Legislative Councils of the Canadas, in order to allow an early hearing for the motion respecting Taxation, wished to know whether the public service would suffer if he brought forward his motion on the question of granting money. He was particularly anxious to bring it on before the sums were voted for fortifying Canada. He was unwilling to retard public business, and if that were to be the result of his bringing forward his Motion, on going into a Committee of Supply, as there was no open day until the 18th of May, he should be obliged to defer his Motion till that day.Mr. Labouchere
907 expressed his determination to oppose the Motion, and said, he was certainly astonished at the quarter in
907General Gascoyne
 thought the present a favourable time for attending to the prayer of the petitioners, and he hoped that the Government would bring forward some measure to carry it into effect.—Petition to be printed.Mr. Hume
 said, that he also was convinced that it was very bad policy for the Government to manufacture any thing. During the war there was some reason for its making Arms, but the gun-makers of Birmingham, and other places, were now so experienced, and their establishments were so large, that they might be safely relied on to furnish any quantity, and of the best quality, which might be desired. He had frequently pressed on the attention of the Government the propriety of putting down the establishment referred to, and he should be very happy to give his support to the hon. Member for Warwickshire.Mr. Hume
 would only remark, that when the Ordnance estimates were discussed, he should be able to shew that the Government had good reason for keeping up this establishment. He would defer stating his views till it was brought substantively before the House by the hon. Member for Warwickshire.—Petition to be printed.Mr. Perceval
 supported the prayer of the Petition.Mr. Bramston
, we understood, opposed the Motion, but the few words that he said were lost in the gallery, owing to the noise and confusion in the House.Sir C. Burrell
 said, the hon. Member was very feeling towards those who might be ruined by another change, but he had no compassion for those who had suffered by the changes already made. He, for one, had no doubt that the greater part of our present distress, and in particular the sufferings of the agriculturists, and all the industrious classes, had been caused by the former change in the currency. He would not then however enter into the subject, he would only observe that from, information which he bad received, the proposed alteration in the Beer duty would completely disappoint those who expected that it would be attended with any benefit to the agricultural classes.Sit Charles Burrell
916915l914 said, that the only part of the speech of the hon. Member for Dover from which he entirely dissented was the proposal of a vote of credit, or as he understood, successive votes of credit. He agreed with the right hon. President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Herries), that when a first step in this way was taken, no one could tell where it would stop. He could not agree with the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Peel), that if the House supported this Motion, on any view of a subject which was not consistent with the view of the right hon. Gentleman, it would be placing the Government in such a situation that it would be more manly and consistent to declare that the House placed no confidence in his Majesty's Ministers. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had gone further, and stated that it would almost amount to a misprision of treason, or at least a slight on the Government, for any other than the Chancellor of the Exchequer to
916915l914Mr. Huskisson
 had no doubt whatever of the good intention of Government, but he must, on principle, protest against it setting up to be a manufacturer of any article whatever.Mr. William Smith
 supported the prayer of the Petition. He believed as the petitioners expressed themselves, that the distress was not as stated in the King's Speech, partial, but general He was not disposed however, to agree with the petitioners in their prayer for an alteration of the Standard, though he was of opinion that the I return to the use of metallic money had caused much of our distress. The petitioners desired that the standard might be restored to what it was in 1797, but on this subject he thought the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman unanswerable. Various changes were indeed talked of, but he would give no opinion on any one of them till he saw some substantive measure brought under the consideration of the House. That would be the best method for those Gentlemen who had plans to propose to adopt, and then every one might be able to form a judgment of the probable results of their schemes. As to Parliamentary Reform, he would say that he desired to see the franchise extended to those large towns which have of late grown up, and he would recommend those opposed to reform rather to yield to gradual measures than be at length compelled to adopt a more extensive reform. He would recommend those who wished for reform to adopt the same plan, as the surest and safest way of accomplishing their object.Mr. G. Robinson
llll said, he meant to vote for the Motion, though he did not concur in all the views of the hon. member for Dover. He rose principally, however, to state a fact which would show that the hon. Member had not made an accurate estimate of our exports to France and Portugal respectively. It appeared that during the last period for which the official returns were made out, the British and Irish exports to Portugal amounted to 2,506,755llllMr. Robinson
l911 was of opinion, that the appointment of such a committee as that which was now proposed would be productive of much good. If the Finance Committee had been allowed to proceed with its labours, there would not have been, in his opinion, any necessity for this Motion: that committee would, as it appeared to him, have investigated those points which the hon. member for Dover embraced in his Motion. As he expected that the committee would have resumed its labours, he had in the recess turned his attention to the subject of taxes, and he had drawn up some observations relative to the revision of taxation, which he meant to have laid before the committee. This fact must prove to the House that his impression at least was, that the committee was intended to take that subject into consideration. He was very much surprised to hear the hon. member for Callington state that there was no necessity for an alteration in taxation. To prove that there was, he need only refer to the rapid improvement which was visible amongst the manufacturers of the Netherlands. An inquiry into the state of taxation was, in his opinion, most desirable. A
l911Sir H. Parnell
 protested against the doctrine of the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) that it would be an act of injustice to revert to the former standard, though he admitted that it might be inconvenient. We had already committed injustice, and he thought that it would not be more than an act of justice, to place those who had been affected by the change al-ready made in the currency, in the situation they would have stood in, but for that change.Sir M. W. Ridley
847 presented a Petition from the freeholders of Worcestershire, complaining of Distress, and praying for an alteration in the Currency, and also for Parliamentary
847Sir T. E. Winnington
909908 observed, that if the Com-
909908Lord Althorp
l918 said, he should merely, at that late hour, offer a few remarks in explanation of the grounds on which he intended to vote in support of the present Motion. He was the more desirous to do so, as he stood in a peculiar and singular situation, according to the opinion expressed by his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Home Department. That right hon. Gentleman had observed that no person spoke in favour of the Motion before the House, who did not also profess himself favourable to a Property-tax. He, however, was an exception amongst those who should so vote, as he did not desire to recommend a Property-tax. Nay more, the bias of his mind was against the imposition of such a tax as a substitute for those upon articles of consumption. If it were only to affect the rent of land, it must necessarily be partial and heavy upon those to whose prejudice it operated. If it were imposed on the profits of capital, it would leave the country nearly in the same distress which was prevalent at present. He should support the Motion for a committee under the hope that it might ascertain to what extent the inconvenience attendant on raising the existing taxes could be abated, or whether the system of inquisitorial inspection could not be entirely abolished. It had been justly said, that the taxes on production were ultimately on consumption; but passing by that part of the subject altogether, he thought that the able exposition of the manner of levying taxes at present adopted, which had been made by the hon. member for Dover, ought of itself to induce the House to accede to his proposition. Indeed, the recent statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer tended much to the same effect, and it was now high time to institute an inquiry for the purpose of deciding whether he had adduced solitary instances of mismanagement in the important matter of taxation. When, he asked, had the inexpediency of the present mode of taxation been revealed to his Ma-
l918Viscount Palmerston
, in explanation, said, that was what he meant to imply. The restrictions on the trade were the consequence of the tax.Lord Palmerston
 said, he was anxious to give any reasonable proposition a fair trial, but he did not like to pledge himself hastily. The calculations on which such schemes were founded assumed certain facts as data which were not always correct. Although he had been with the noble Lord at that University where calculation was much studied, he confessed that he had not yet mastered Mr. Finlayson's plan; but supposing, when he had mastered it, that he should find it promising, he would give it a fair trial. He had certainly, at one time, supposed that the annuity scheme would not be popular. Experience, however, had convinced him that he had made a mistake. Being aware that the proposed plan would, if founded on correct data, lessen the capital of the debt in a few years, he would certainly take the subject into his consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his satisfaction th Mr. Brickwood's plan was to be tried.Mr. Maberly
 of the Exchequer, the House resolved itself into a Committee of Supply, whenOn the Motion of the Chancellor
 could give no further satisfaction. It was necessary to know the number of dissentients, and the amount required to satisfy them before any plan could be adopted. If it were done by way of annuity, an interest corresponding to the eventual reduction of capital, and the rate of the market, would be given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was persuaded that his right hon. friend meant to do justice, but must press upon him the necessity of making his plan known as early as possible.Mr. Bernal
922 objected, on the part of his constituents, to this Bill, which, to the best of his belief, was only calculated to create inconvenience and expense to a large portion of the inhabitants of Westminster and the neighbourhood of the metropolis. Some farmers would have to carry their hay two miles further to the new market, and all would be put to great additional expense in going back with a return load of manure. No practical inconvenience was felt from the present situation of the market; and as the new market would occasion a great deal of inconvenience, he meant to oppose the Bill at every opportunity. He would not however resist bringing up the Report, as the House was so thinly attended, he being convinced that the Bill was the less
922Mr. Byng
 observed in reply, that the unpopularity of the measure was by no means so universal amongst the hon. Member's constituents as he would have the House to believe. On the contrary, he apprehended that the suggestion for a removal was generally received with approbation. The reluctance of a few, even although they might lose by the alteration, ought to give way to the general interests of the public. In fact, if partial objections were not in such cases overlooked, all improvements of any kind whatsoever must be prevented. In Birmingham and Sheffield the respective markets had been removed from the centre to the outskirts of those towns, and the change was found to be in every respect advantageous and satisfactory to the inhabitants. What would be thought if it were now proposed to establish the market in St. James's Square, and yet that was more spacious than the Haymarket? In fact, when the market was first established, St. Martin's was really St. Martin's in the Fields, now it was St. Martin's in the centre of the town, and the situation had become unsuitable to a market. The place whither it was intended to remove this market was not distant more than a mile and a half from the northern districts of the metropolis.Lord Lowther
 here interposed, by stating that it was right he should inform the House, before the discussion proceeded farther, that the report of the committee was irregular, not being in accordance with the Standing Order that prescribed the terms in which the Report of a Committee on a private bill ought to be couched. This Report merely set forth that the Standing Orders had been complied with,—that they had heard counsel and made certain amendments, leaving out what was most important,—namely, that "they had examined the allegations in support of the Bill, and found the same to be true." It therefore became necessary that the Report should be recommitted before they could proceed further with the Bill, consistently with the observance of the forms of the House.The Speaker
923 remarked, that the promoters
923Mr. Byng
 expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex with respect to the inconvenience and expense which a great number of persons must sustain in consequence of the removal in contemplation. He should now, however, give notice relative to another subject nearly affecting the convenience and accommodation of the inhabitants of the metropolis—that when the Bill was brought fairly before the House, it was his intention to bring under its consideration the proposed obstruction at the end of Waterloo-place, which precluded the public from entering St. James's-park through the opening, as they had hitherto so naturally expected. They considered the stopping up the passage there as a direct violation of the avowed plan of the Government.Mr. Hobhouse
 agreed with the hon. Member for Westminster in objecting to this churlish exclusion of the public where there was no adequate reason for disregarding their accommodation. He was further of opinion that the House ought not to pass money votes either for the expenses of the Palace or for any other improvement connected with the Park, till this very reasonable demand should be complied with.Mr. Hume
 stated, that his only reason for pursuing the course he did was, because it enabled him to take the earliest opportunity of opposing the obstruction, which was particularly desirable, as the workmen were at present actively employed in stopping up the passage in question.Mr. Hobhouse
 entertained a similar opinion as to the general inconvenience and disappointment which would be felt in the metropolis if the noble Lord persisted in refusing so reasonable a request. He wished to see the entrance from Waterloo-place effected by a double flight of steps into the Park.—The Bill recommitted.Mr. Protheroe
, on the Question having been put, said, as the greater part of the 4-per-cents were trust funds, he hoped the mode adopted of securing the transfers would be such as would equalize the payments and satisfy the parties for whom the funds were held in trust. He was anxious also to know by what plan the dissentients were to be paid off, because that ought to be ascertained before the House were called upon to provide for the necessary amount. Was it to be by Exchequer Bills?Mr. Bernal
 said, in reply, that it would be inexpedient for the Government prematurely to disclose its plan. He hoped it would be enough for his hon. friend to know, that the intended mode of proceeding would be what became the country to pursue in fairness and justice to the public creditor, while the interest of the public was not neglected.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 imputed all these improvements to the Finance Committee which he was sorry had not been revived. The public would know to whom the reforms were due.Mr. Maberly
 complained of the amount of the Superannuations, which he said had increased instead of diminished. He strongly recommended Government to adopt some plan by which its servants might provide for their own superannuations.Mr. Maberly
 replied that Government had done so. In all the appointments which have been made since the recommendation of the Select Committee on this subject, the plan referred to by the hon. Member had been acted upon. The superannuation of all public officers who might hereafter enter the service of the country would cost it nothing. He could assure the hon. Member that the Government had the most earnest desire to carry into full effect the recommendations of the Finance Committee.Mr. Herries
 answered, all officers under the Treasury.Mr. Herries
 desired to know whether this bill was only to regulate superannuations?Mr. Maberly
 said, according to a Treasury Minute, all persons hereafter accepting office immediately under the Treasury, are to have a reduction made in the amount of their salaries, to form a fund to provide for their own superannuations. The bill which he meant to introduce would extend this principle to all the departments of the public service.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
934 said, that if the salaries had increased, the number of Commissioners had been diminished since 1792, and that the public business had increased. In 1792, all the commissioners had a power of selling clerkships; the clerks in their turn received fees, and he could assure the hon. Member, that if the expense to the public was now greater than in 1792, the emoluments of the individuals were much less. The practice of selling clerkships and of taking fees had been done away. He was sure that it could be neither for the honour nor the interest of the public service to return to the system of 1792. If the question were examined in all its bearings, he was persuaded that the present Estimate, as compared with
934Sir B. Martin
 said, he ought, perhaps, to have stated, that the Superintendant of Transports performed the duty of a Commissioner of the Navy.Sir Byam Martin
llllllllll did not think the salaries of the Commissioners too large, but he observed that many gentlemen held more than one appointment. The Commissioner for Hackney Coaches, for example, with a salary of 300llllllllllMr. Maberly
 complained, that the old system of keeping accounts was still adhered to by the Navy-office, when a better system had been prepared and recommended, but not adopted. He wished that Mr. Abbott's plan, which was similar to that adopted by the East India Company, and by the French Government, had been followed.Mr. Maberly
936 said, the Government had no interest in the matter further than to select the system of keeping accounts which they deemed to be best, and that they had done in selecting the system recommended by Messrs. Brooksbank and Belts. He conceived that the Treasury had done perfectly right in choosing that system. He had long been of opinion, that uniformity in keeping all the public accounts was very desirable. They would then be easily understood by the House and the country, and the Government would be able at all times to tell how
936Mr. Herries
 said, that he did not censure the individuals, he condemned the total want of system in keeping the accounts in the public offices. The universal system of keeping accounts throughout the commercial world—the system adopted in France—throughout Europe—by the East India Company—and by all merchants—should have been preferred by the Government to the fanciful system of Messrs. Brooksbank and Belts.Mr. Maberly
937 said, when the two systems in question were laid before him, he had resolved to examine
937The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 inquired how it was, that the superannuation allowances had increased in this Estimate?Mr. Maberly
 was of opinion, even if meal were an exception to the general rule, that the present mode of supplying salt-meat to the navy was at once unnecessary, useless, and expensive. He had no doubt that all the manufacturing accounts of Government were losing accounts. The hon. Secretary at War had argued some time ago that we ought to keep up a manufactory for swords and cuirasses. He was certain that if the hon. Secretary were to go into the market he could purchase them at half the price which he was paying for their manufacture.Mr. Maberly
l941 wished to know whether they were to expect any large reduction in these yards as to materials and to artificers. If he understood the evidence given by a gallant Admiral before the Finance Committee rightly, we should not require to have any more ships of the line built after the year 1830, and the yards would not be wanted, except to put down some large frigates to meet those which bad been lately built by America and France. We had now 350 ships of war, a larger number than we could man within any short period after the commencement of a war. Could we, therefore, be justified in keeping up our enormous ship-building establishment
l941Mr. Maberly
 said, that, although this country was subject to great expense in order to suppress the Slave-trade, he thought it would be unwise to abandon that object suddenly. The subject, however, was under the consideration of Government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll to observe, that there was in one page a superannuation allowance of 456llMr. Stanley
 said, this individual received his superannuation allowance under an Act of Parliament—his half-pay was granted for forty years' service.Sir Byam Martin
ld.sl948ll"No, no," from the Ministerial benches.llll947ll946nil,lll said, he hoped that, in proposing the Motion of which he had given notice, he should not be deemed to trespass improperly or unnecessarily on the time of the Committee, while he made a few observations. In the first place, he would say, it was not his fault that the Motion had not been brought forward at an earlier period. He had given many successive notices of his intention to bring the matter under consideration; but circumstances had prevented him from introducing it sooner. He considered the proposition which he was about to submit to the Committee as one of very considerable importance; but he feared that its consideration would not be enhanced in consequence of the subject being taken up by so humble an individual as himself. He observed in the Estimate which they were now called on to vote, the names of two individuals, the Hon. R. Dundas and the Hon. W. L. Bathurst, to the former of whom was granted a pension of 500ld.sl948ll"No, no," from the Ministerial benches.llll947ll946nil,lllSir R. Heron
bonâ fide951a laugh950949 begged to assure the hon. Baronet that he was not one of those who imputed blame to him for the delay that had taken place in bringing on the present discussion—he was aware that the delay had been occasioned by an unwillingness to impede the public service by interposing unnecessary obstacles to the progress of the estimates. He felt anxious to address the Committee on this particular subject, because he thought the hon. Baronet laboured under an erroneous impression, in which in all probability other hon. Members participated, as to the conduct of the Treasury in giving its sanction to this Vote being submitted to Parliament. He thought he should best satisfy the Committee by stating the circumstances of the case, and the grounds on which the Treasury had proceeded in this particular instance, laying aside, as he intended to do, much of the extraneous matter which the hon. Baronet had introduced in the course of his speech. He said "extraneous," because he did not conceive it to be his duty, in considering cases of superannuation such as the present, to examine whe-
bonâ fide951a laugh950949The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Cries of "no, no," said, that he should not have intruded himself upon the House but for the unnecessary personality in which the hon. Baronet who brought forward the subject had thought proper to indulge. [Cries of "no, no,"Colonel Dundas
 said, that this question had been argued as though the vote were one of course, whereas it was clearly subject to the determination of the House. He hoped, however, that the vote of that night would establish the fact, that no person should have a pension who had not performed actual services.Mr. Maberly
956, in explanation, begged to say, that when he called the late Lord Melville a sort of Viceroy of Scotland, he alluded to an office and to duties which no longer existed. As to the expression "equivocal services," he could assure the hon. Member, that he had no intention of hinting at the circumstances to which the hon. Member had alluded. Indeed, that circumstance never once entered his mind.
956Sir R. Heron
(Signed) "J. STEWART."" I am, &c,958"SIR—Having laid before the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury your letter of the 20th ult., respecting the amount of superannuation allowance to be granted to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst, on their removal from the Navy and Victualling Boards, in consequence of the reduction in the numbers of the Commissioners of those respective Boards, I am commanded by my Lords to acquaint you, for the information of the Lords of the Admiralty, that they observe with satisfaction that their Lordships have made an arrangement for employing in another situation Captain F. M. Lewis, one of the reduced Commissioners of the Navy, and have thus superseded the necessity of raising any question as to any provision for him. And my Lords have no doubt that the Lords of the Admiralty will be equally anxious to adopt a similar course with respect to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst; and my Lords, therefore, consider that any allowance to be made to them is purely of a temporary nature, to continue only during the period which may elapse before they can be again employed in some civil situation connected with the Civil De-
958Treasury Chambers, April 30th,"Treasury Chambers, April 30th,"The Hon. J. Stewart, Treasury."(Signed) "JOHN BARROW."I am, &c."Their Lordships think it right to add, for the information of the Lords of the Treasury, that Mr. Dundas is eligible to two of the reserved Commissionerships of the Navy; but that as all the members of the Victualling Board, except the Chairman, are professional, Mr. Bathurst would not be eligible to any seat at the Board, unless as Chairman."My Lords command me to request you will state this arrangement to the Lords of his Majesty's Treasury, and inform me whether their Lordships are of opinion that any retired allowance, and to what amount, should be granted to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst on the abolition of their offices, which have usually been deemed hitherto as held during life or good behaviour. Mr. Dundas has held the office four years, having been one year previously attached to the British Embassy at Madrid and Lisbon; and Mr. Bathurst has held his situation nearly four years.957"SIR—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that
957"Admiralty Office, March 20th,"Admiralty Office, March 20th,ll said, he was glad he had given way to the hon. Baronet, whose explanation, he was sure, must be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman who had expressed himself on the subject with a degree of warmth that the circumstances undoubtedly justified. The hon. Member for Westminster was mistaken in supposing that he disapproved of the proposition; but he could assure that hon. Member, that he was not insensible to the value of that independent support which, the hon. Member truly said, the present Government had received. Most sorry should he be to lose such support; and never, to the latest day of his existence, could he forget the conduct pursued by the Gentlemen on the other side of the House on the great measure of last Session. The manner in which the Gentlemen opposite gave their support to the Government at that time could never be forgotten by him; and he thought that the conduct pursued by those Gentlemen on that occasion reflected the highest credit on the political parties of this country. With respect to the present proposition, he agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last as to the nature of it. It was only a proposition made by the Government, which the House would reject or allow as it thought fit. It was a mere estimate, which, if the House thought improper, it would be its duty to reject. He begged of hon. Members, however, to consider what the real nature of the proposition was, before they came to a decision upon it. It was a proposition which arose out of a revision of the establishments of the country which the Government had thought it their duty to make. The course which had been pursued in this case by his Majesty's Ministers had been to take away the youngest officers, and instead of a salary of 1,000(Signed) "J. STEWART."" I am, &c,958"SIR—Having laid before the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury your letter of the 20th ult., respecting the amount of superannuation allowance to be granted to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst, on their removal from the Navy and Victualling Boards, in consequence of the reduction in the numbers of the Commissioners of those respective Boards, I am commanded by my Lords to acquaint you, for the information of the Lords of the Admiralty, that they observe with satisfaction that their Lordships have made an arrangement for employing in another situation Captain F. M. Lewis, one of the reduced Commissioners of the Navy, and have thus superseded the necessity of raising any question as to any provision for him. And my Lords have no doubt that the Lords of the Admiralty will be equally anxious to adopt a similar course with respect to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst; and my Lords, therefore, consider that any allowance to be made to them is purely of a temporary nature, to continue only during the period which may elapse before they can be again employed in some civil situation connected with the Civil De-
958Treasury Chambers, April 30th,"Treasury Chambers, April 30th,"The Hon. J. Stewart, Treasury."(Signed) "JOHN BARROW."I am, &c."Their Lordships think it right to add, for the information of the Lords of the Treasury, that Mr. Dundas is eligible to two of the reserved Commissionerships of the Navy; but that as all the members of the Victualling Board, except the Chairman, are professional, Mr. Bathurst would not be eligible to any seat at the Board, unless as Chairman."My Lords command me to request you will state this arrangement to the Lords of his Majesty's Treasury, and inform me whether their Lordships are of opinion that any retired allowance, and to what amount, should be granted to Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst on the abolition of their offices, which have usually been deemed hitherto as held during life or good behaviour. Mr. Dundas has held the office four years, having been one year previously attached to the British Embassy at Madrid and Lisbon; and Mr. Bathurst has held his situation nearly four years.957"SIR—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that
957"Admiralty Office, March 20th,"Admiralty Office, March 20th,llMr. Peel
lerubuit—salva res est.954 said, that whatever opinions might be entertained in the House upon this subject, there was but one opinion upon it out of doors. It might be unfortunate that the period of these gentlemen's services was omitted; it might be unfortunate that they were the sons of Cabinet Ministers; it might be unfortunate that they held other places; but of this he was quite sure,—namely, that all these unfortunate circumstances made it also very
lerubuit—salva res est.954Mr. Hobhouse
 took that opportunity to give notice, that he should move for the abolition of the office of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance when the Ordnance Estimates should be regularly brought before them.Sir J. Graham
ld.Laughl953ll said, he had heard with astonishment the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, charge the hon. Baronet with introducing extraneous matter into his statement. Never was there a more plain unvarnished tale than that of the hon. Baronet. On the contrary, the right hon. Gentleman's statement was full of extraneous matter. The right hon. Gentleman said, that in his opinion the case of the highest and the lowest individual ought to be considered on the same principle, or simply in reference to the circumstances of it. He hoped it always would be so. But pensions and allowances ought to be granted for public services, and casualties, and what could the committee say when it found pensions of 400ld.Laughl953llColonel Sibthorp
 said, it was of great importance to ascertain how the dissentients were to be paid, and he should therefore beg leave to repeat the question already put by his hon. friend.Mr. P. Thomson
llllhear, and cries of "No"952 was of opinion, that the transaction in question was blameable; but at the same time thought, that the fault did not attach to any particular member of the Cabinet, but to Ministers generally, for sanctioning a vote which involved a most extraordinary principle of superannuations and allowances. Although it did not appear on the Estimates what had been the length of service of these two gentlemen, it was stated that it did not exceed four years. Was that, he asked, a fair period of service for which to grant an allowance? This was to extend the terms of the Act of Parliament under which superannuations were granted, and
llllhear, and cries of "No"952Mr. C. Wood
 defended the conduct of the Treasury, in adopting the system recommended by Messrs. Brooksbank and Belts, and rejecting that which was recommended by the other Commissioner, Mr. Abbott. It was for the Treasury to determine between the two plans, and they adopted, upon mature consideration, that which they considered the best.Mr. G. Dawson
 observed, that the regulation applied to all officers who had been appointed since the passing of the Treasury Minute last year, and he had to inform the hon. Gentleman, that he should, in a few days, introduce a bill to extend it to all offices under the Crown.Mr. George Dawson
933 agreed in the observation of the hon. Member, and begged to inform him that a Return was preparing
933Mr. George Dawson
945llll complained, that by the existing Act of Parliament, a marine, who entered the service at twenty years of age, was entitled to claim his discharge and pension after he had served twenty-one years. Thus a perfectly healthy man of forty-one might claim a salary of 18945llllMr. J. E. Denison
 said, nothing could be more preposterous than that an officer, living in a dock-yard, and possessing every comfort, should receive a salary of greater amount than if he were employed in serving his country abroad.Mr. Hume
 said, that the regulation alluded to must be of very recent date, for he understood that two promotions had lately been granted at Plymouth, by the flag-officer, Lord Northesk.Mr. Hume
llll to say, that he approved of this Vote. He was glad to find that the young men now paid for their education. Formerly this establishment stood the country in 3,245llllMr. Hume
ll940 said, it was highly wrong to insinuate that those who professed economy would run the risk of injuring the health of the seamen for the sake of a few pounds. They would do no such thing; but Government might as easily secure against adulteration when the biscuit was supplied by contract as when it was made by its own servants. It must contract for wheat; and might it not be imposed on by bad wheat as well as by bad flour or bad biscuit? What had been advanced did not convince him that the Government ought not to contract for the provisions of the Navy. The ships of the East India Company were supplied by contract, and whenever any of the provisions so supplied were found of inferior quality, the contractors were called upon to make the deficiency
ll940Mr. Hume
 asked, whether it was the intention of Government to revise the bounty on slaves.Mr. Hume
 recommended that a scale of salaries to be adopted in every department of the public service should be drawn up and submitted to the House. The present system was inexplicable, it went on no principle, and required revision.Mr. Hume
 asked whether all the officers under Government were obliged to provide for their own superannuation?Mr. Hume
l repeated his statement, that the salaries of these officers were too large; and, in particular, he would object to giving the Superintendant of Transports 1000lMr. Hume
llll objected to the number of useless officers in the Admiralty Office. One Secretary for the Admiralty should at least be got rid of. In 1792 the expense of the three departments, Navy-office, Navy-Pay-office, and the Admiralty, was only 58,719llllMr. Hume
lll.;l said, that he was glad to hear that we had now, in the fifteenth year of peace, made those reductions which ought to have been made immediately on the termination of the war. It was, however, a severe reflection upon preceding administrations that they had not been made sooner. He wished to know whether there was to be any reduction in the scale of allowances paid to the Commissioner of the Dock-yard at Plymouth for example, who received 1,000lll.;lMr. Hume
lll complained of the extravagant amount of this vote. Some years ago it was not more than 25,000lllMr. Hume
 agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that there would arise a fitter time than that for the discussion; but he wished then to remark, that he had for ten years pressed the Government to introduce a simple system of keeping accounts, so that they might be understood by those who were as little familiar with accounts as the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to be. At length some attention had been paid to his recommendation, but not, he contended, in the best manner. Without the journal no effective check could exist. No private establishment could keep its accounts without it; the French Government had introduced it into use, and found it an admirable means of controlling its expenses.Mr. Hume
lllllll938lll, who contended, that this was an unnecessary and expensive office. The Government should do every thing in this way by contract, as was the case in the Army. If the Victualling Board were to be kept up, one individual would be sufficient to manage it. At present it cost 48,000lllllll938lllMr. Hume
930 pressed earnestly upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state, in
930Mr. Hume
 wished to know what saving had accrued from the change which he understood had been made in the Navy Board, two Commissioners having retired?Mr. Hume
 observed, that a great improvement had been introduced by the Treasury within the last three years in the system of keeping accounts in the Navy and other public offices.Mr. Keith Douglas
lllll said, that the increase arose in the following manner. The clerks on entering the different offices connected with the Navy were distributed among them according as they belonged to the inferior or the superior departments. If they belonged to the inferior department, they received for the first three years only 90lllllSir G. Clerk
 explained, that the sum included the rent of a wharf where trans- ports were unloaded, which would not be a permanent charge.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that it was necessary to bring in a bill for that purpose, and the bill was in the course of preparation. He added, that the present Accountant-general of the Navy-office had introduced, in lieu of the old system, a very improved system of accounts, upon the basis of the double entry.Sir G. Clerk
 replied, that there was an exact debtor and creditor account kept of the corn bought and the flour manufactured, together with an account of the salary paid to the Master, and all other contingent expenses. He added, that such a question ought not to be decided merely by pounds, shillings, and pence: it concerned the health and comfort of the seamen; and as long as there was any temptation to adulterate the material of biscuit, which was the case when it was supplied by contract, it was impossible to answer either for the health or the contentment of seamen. When the biscuits were manufactured in the public establishments the seamen knew that there was no temptation to adulterate it.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that no alteration would be made in the scale of those allowances. Some of the offices would be, abolished, but the salaries of those which remained would continue unaltered.Sir G. Clerk
l, in moving for a sum of 854,000lSir G. Clerk
sl answered, that this gentleman had served for a long time at Plymouth, at Woolwich, and Chatham, as Commissioner. His superannuation allowance was calculated on the time he had served, and the salary he had received in the civil office. Mr. Shield was upwards of seventy years of age, and had been for a long period in the active service of the Navy. His superannuation allowance amounted to 466slSir G. Clerk
 observed, that whatever blame was imputable on the ground of the omission of the length of service of Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bathurst in the Estimate attached to him; it was intended that the period of these gentlemen's services should appear, and the hon. Comptroller of the Navy had brought him a copy filled up with these items, but, owing to a mistake of his own, a rough copy in which they were omitted had been brought down.Sir G. Clerk
955 begged to call the attention of the Committee to the real question before it; that question was, whether there was any thing in the situations of these gentlemen which ought to induce the House to refuse in their case what they would not refuse in similar cases. There was no instance in which persons removed in consequence
955Sir G. Clerk
932 explained, that the Navy Board, which, by regulations of 1786 was divided into several committees, had been, by a late regulation, which received the sanction of the Finance Committee, altered in its constitution. Instead of being; divided into committees, each Commissioner was made responsible for some one department, and in consequence of this regulation two Commissioners had been removed. But in consequence of the important duties
932Sir G. Clerk
sl proposed, that 57,560slSir G. Clerk
 said, the statement was true. A marine might obtain his discharge and a pension after twenty-one years service; but the pensions were under consideration. Some alteration would probably take place in the Act of Parliament to which the hon. Member had alluded.Sir G. Cockburn
l;l observed, that it was not correct to say that those individuals got double what they would have done had they continued actively employed in the Navy. Had they remained in the naval service, they would now have been Admirals, with much larger allowances. Mr. Shield had been forty years in the naval service before he entered the civil service, in which he had been twenty years, and he was now nearly seventy years of age.l;lSir G. Cockburn
944 observed, that the noble Lord at the head of the Admiralty thought it was but fair towards those individuals to grant them that promotion
944Sir G. Cockburn
l942l complained, that the hon. member for Abingdon had misrepresented, though he believed very unintentionally, his evidence before the Finance Committee. He had said, that we had now a certain number of ships of the line, and that by 1830 all of these would be in a complete state. In stating that, he by no means meant to assert that all our naval force would by that time be complete: for it happened that we were at present short of frigates. Besides, though we had 350 ships on the list, they were not all in an efficient state. We must keep up our naval establishment to a certain amount, in reference to the amount of other nations. He did not think that the hon. member for Montrose wished to put down the dock-yards entirely. He had himself long been of opinion that the expense of the dock-yards might be reduced; indeed, he had been busily employed in effecting such a reduction. A proof of it might be seen in the single fact, that Government had within a few years reduced 500 salaried officers in the dockyards, whose salaries amounted to nearly 100,000l942lSir G. Cockburn
 was quite convinced that the project of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was practicable, but he thought the fullest information ought to be given to all the parties concerned.Mr. Robinson
 said, it was plain that the Treasury, in this instance, had acted with too much haste. They should have let the merits of the two systems be tried before they adopted one in preference to the other. They showed too great haste in rejecting the system which included the journal. It must be admitted, he thought, that his hon. friend, who carried on an extensive business, was a better judge of accounts than the officers of the Treasury; and the opinion of his hon. friend was a sufficient condemnation of the system the Treasury had adopted. The Government should have tried the two systems before adopting either. When the Finance Committee recommended that the public accounts should be investigated by Commissioners, it was with a view of procuring information; so that the best possible system might be introduced. He thought, and so did his hon. friend, that the system which included the journal was preferable to the other, and thinking so, he must affirm, that the Treasury had acted rashly in at once adopting the system which did not include it.Sir H. Parnell
 wished to know whether it was the intention of Government to carry into effect the recommendation of the Finance Committee, with respect to the mode of keeping accounts.Sir H. Parnell
939 said, that a large capital had been expended in building mills
939Sir J. Wrottesley
 maintained, that in any department where, in the system of keeping accounts, the journal was excluded, the proper and necessary check could not exist. Any private commercial establishment would be ruined in six months unless a journal were kept. By its use, the head of any department could tell every night and morning the whole sum received and expended in that department; and he could exercise an effectual control, with very little trouble on his part, over all the subordinate officers.Sir J. Wrottesley
 observed, that the House had a right to investigate all the circumstances of these pensions, which, in his opinion, ought not to be granted.Lord Althorp
931lll said, he too was anxious for information, though he was bound to say that the main object of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had his entire approbation. He wished, on that occasion, to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the propriety of converting all the permanent into terminable annuities, because we had the means of doing so; and that would, at no distant period, put an end to the public debt. The plan should be, to effect the conversion at the market rate of interest, but he would induce the parties concerned to come into the measure by giving them a bonus. The plan had been strongly recommended by the Finance Committee, and since then he believed about 2,300,000931lllLord Althorp
987 begged leave to inform the House, that he had,
987Sir F. Burdett
 would do every thing in his power to further the views of the hon. Gentleman, but he could! fix no day for the discussion of the general questions connected with Canada. He would postpone it as long as possible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. wished, he said, to call the attention of the right honorable the Secretary of War to the Marine corps, which appeared to him expensive and unnecessary. It consisted of 4,000 men, though the gallant Admiral opposite had stated that 1,000 would be sufficient to perform the requisite duties. If it were said that they were wanted for garrison duty, that he would contend could be performed by the regular troops. If 4,000 marines were kept up for that purpose, they were unnecessary, or 4,000of the regular troops ought to be reduced. The reduction of these 4,000 men would be a saving of 200,000l.Mr. Maberly
pari passu990 said, that the question of reform having been agitated and agreed to at that meeting of the county of Kent, showed that the principles of reform were making way all over the country. He therefore was quite satisfied that hon. Members would at length become convinced of the absolute necessity of giving the people a greater weight in their representative system; and that the old apprehensions by which well-intentioned persons were deluded and prevented from supporting this principle could no longer be attempted with any chance of success. He was sorry, however, to see in this petition, in the greater part of which he cordially concurred, certain observations respecting the principles of what was called Free Trade, for it was not those principles, which had never been fully acted on, which caused their distress. They had, indeed, been called into practice so far as to derange the old system, without giving the country all the advantages of that new system of which they were nominally the basis. He was satisfied that when the principles of Free Trade were fully understood, and fairly applied, the people would see that they could not be injured by them, or that they had any reason for opposing them. The sooner misapprehensions upon
pari passu990Sir Francis Burdett
 begged to know if there was any truth in the report that it was intended to deprive the captains of his Majesty's ships of the power they had hitherto possessed to appoint midshipmen? He understood that something of that kind was to be introduced in the new regulations, which, besides being prejudicial to the service, he was sure would create great discontent.Mr. Bernal
995 declared that he would oppose that and every other motion of a similar nature, until it should be explained why a passage had not been opened for
995Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. Gentleman was in error in supposing that he had made any such promise as that alluded to. When he had been asked if any such opening would be made, his answer was, that he could not state until he saw the plans. When the plans were presented at his office they contained no such opening.Mr. Arbuthnot
 maintained, that an opening was promised by his Majesty's Government; but whether by the right hon. Gentleman or some other member of it, he did not recollect.Mr. Hume
 put it to the hon. member for Montrose, whether the present was the fittest occasion for the discussion of this question?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the opening for which his hon. friend wished, would add greatly to the beauty of the street, than which nothing could be more unsightly than its present appearance. The wall which had been erected completely obstructed the view of the park. While he was upon his legs, he wished to say a few words on another subject. A few years ago the right hon. Gentleman promised that at the expiration of a certain period the interior of the Regent's Park should be opened to the public The time he conceived had now fully expired, and the public had a right to demand that the expectation should be realized. It was well known that there was a very dense population in the neighbourhood of the Regent's Park, to whom the liberty of walking over the whole of it, instead of being confined to the narrow roads by which it was bounded, would be a great convenience and advantage. The plantations had now grown up. If, however, any mischief to them were still apprehended, it would surely be very easy to give directions that some of the policemen should be on the spot, for the purpose of preventing it.Mr. Lennard
996 referred to the leases granted to those who had built villas in the Regent's Park, in order to show that Government had no power to open the interior of the park to the public, unless
996Mr. Maberly
hear agreed with the hon. member for Abingdon, that it would not be in the power of the Government to throw open the whole area of the park to the public, but there was a portion of it— the hon. Member knew the part to which he alluded—which he (Mr. Arbuthnot) had intended to open to the public had he remained at the head of the department over which he formerly presided. What would be done now with reference to that part of the park he could not say; but he would say, if he had remained at the head of that department, he intended to open it to the public, [hearMr. Arbuthnot
 said, that every hon. Member who passed down to the House by Charing cross must have had his feelings and nerves annoyed in coming along that exceedingly dirty passage. There could, therefore, be no greater convenience, not only to members of Parliament, but to the public, than the making of an opening from Waterloo-place into St. James's park. He did not believe that a pledge had been given to that effect by Government, but he thought, upon the high ground of public convenience, that opening should be called for. He trusted that this passage would be made, and that also the area of the Regent's-park would be opened to the public. He trusted too that the noble lord now at the head of the Woods and Forests, and who, he was sure, was desirous to do every thing for the public convenience, would finally have the Regent's park thrown open to the public like Hyde park, and that also a passage would be opened, and a flight of steps made, from Waterloo-place into St. James's park.Mr. Protheroe
 said, whether or not a pledge had been given that this opening should be made, he trusted it would be for the public convenience. He concurred with the right hon. gentleman opposite that this subject could be mooted on a fitter occasion. Several votes connected with the parks must come under their notice, and the House would then have an opportunity for discussing this subject.Mr. Hume
 said, he differed from the hon. member for Abingdon as to the construction of acts of Parliament regarding the Regent's-park, and as to the terms of the leases upon which the villas in that park had been let. It was quite true that there were provisions in the leases to prevent the building- of any more villas there: but he could see nothing in the terms of those leases to prevent the Government from opening the area of the park to the public. He himself possessed a villa in the park; but he did not think that the convenience of the public at large should be postponed to that of the few individuals who had villas there.Mr. Lennard
 said, when a part of the park was opened to the Zoological Society, he took counsel's opinion on the subject; and that opinion was, that the Government had no right to make that grant; and he could assure his hon. friend that if he would consult counsel on the point, be would find that, according to the terms of the leases of the buildings in the Park, the Government had no right or power to throw it open to the public.Mr. Maberly
 condemned the mode in which some of the new buildings erected on the site of Carlton-palace had been leased to Mr. Nash. His interest was of course opposed to the public in favor of his own, and in that way the public convenience was neglected.Mr. Warburton
 said, in reference to Mr. Nash becoming the lessee of some of these premises, the facts were simply these:— Mr. Nash made an offer for a lot of ground for the erection of five houses, at the end of the area in Waterloo-place, which could not be let. He took it on the condition of building those houses upon it, afterwards to be let to such tenants as the heads of the Woods and Forests might approve of. and Mr. Nash undertook to give, them at the prime cost. He (Mr. Arbuthnot) knew that Mr. Nash had subsequently let them at the prime cost.Mr. Arbuthnot
 wished to know whether there had been any public competition allowed for this ground—whether it had been set up to public auction, or whether, on the contrary, Mr. Nash had not been suffered to take it by a private bargain, and very likely at his own price?Mr. Beaumont
998 said, the public was fully aware at the time that this lot of ground was to be let. It had not been put up to public auction, because in the
998Mr. Arbuthnot
 saw no reason why St. James's-park should be looked upon in the light of private grounds. He was sure it would be a source of satisfaction and pleasure to the Sovereign to see his subjects enjoying the comfort and recreation which that park would afford them. He sincerely believed, if the noble Lord opposite would make a representation on the subject in a proper quarter, that the convenience of the public would be fully attended to in that respect. He was sure the royal heart would be gladdened to see the inhabitants of this metropolis enjoying the recreations afforded by that park, and its rural scenery.Mr. Beaumont
 said, that St. James's-park was an unfortunate instance to select for complaint, for within a very short period means had been taken to afford the greatest advantages to all classes of the public, by the improvements in that park. There was at this moment a road in progress on the south side of the park, which, when completed, would be of great advantage to the higher orders, and the opening of the interior of the park had been productive of the greatest advantages to all classes of society.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished for nothing more than that every thing possible should be done for the accommodation of the public. —Agreed to, and the House went into a Committee of Supply.Mr. Beaumont
l. said, he proposed to take the vote for the Civil Contingencies upon account, as the amount was required for the carrying on the public service, and the House would hereafter have an opportunity of discussing the votes separately. He accordingly moved—"That a sum not exceeding 100,000l.Mr. G. Dawson
l.999l.l. would not object to taking this vote upon account now; but when the separate votes should come to be discussed, he would move a resolution, that it is expedient to effect a reduction in the diplomatic expenses of the country. He should object to voting 60,000l.999l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, it would be found that considerable reductions had been effected in this part of the public expenditure this year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the system followed at present was different from the system formerly in use: captains had been substituted for masters; but as there were fewer of them, the expense was not increased, while the ships were much better taken care of.Sir Byam Martin
 was of opinion that a report of the number of Pensions granted by Government should be annually laid on the Table of the House.Mr. Maberly
 said such a Report was to be laid on the Table.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. objected to voting 17,000l.l.Mr. Maberly
 admitted the general principle contended for by the hon. Member opposite; but he maintained that Government, had acted upon a case of emergency. After the explanation given by his hon. friend who had moved the vote, he did not in fact expect to hear it opposed. The hospital at Malta was found inadequate to provide for our sick when we had only 6,000 men on that station: when our force was raised to 8,000, Government felt it imperative, for the benefit of the service, to build a new hospital. The hon. member for Montrose was mistaken in saying that there was no estimate; there was an estimate transmitted in the regular course of business from the Admiralty to the Treasury. If it had been found that the hospital was too small for6000 men it was surely too small for 8,000, and the emergency which compelled the Government to make that addition to our force also compelled, it to provide an hospital.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it appeared to him that the House was called upon to make this grant without any satisfactory estimate having been placed before it.Mr. Warburton
 proposed that this part of the vote should be postponed till the papers were printed.Mr. Maberley
l.l.1004 explained the circum-
l.l.1004Sir B. Martin
 said, that the parish church was not more than two miles distant, and he therefore should support the hon. Member's objection to the grant.Colonel Davies
 said, that there had been an intention at one time to get rid of this dock-yard altogether; if so, what occasion was there to build this chapel?Mr. Maberly
 said, the superannuations were allowed to chaplains on the same principle precisely, that they were allowed to other persons.Sir B. Martin
hear, hearl.l.As proofs of holy writ"Are, to the jealous confirmations strong"—tiifles, light as air,animus10211020a laughAjax flagellifer101910181017***1016101510141013l.10121011vice versâ,1010producing the Report of the Finance CommitteeWhat feats he did that day.But we'll remember with advantagesOld men forget; yes, all shall be forgot,1009Sir James spoke from what are usually called the Opposition Benches1008 congratulated his hon. friend, the Secretary for the Ordnance, upon the very clear and satisfactory manner in which he had staled the estimates of his department to the Committee. It must be gratifying to the House to see his hon. friend dedicating his time industriously and manfully to the public service, instead of eating the bread of idleness and cringing at the doors of that Treasury from which his father, who had achieved the
hear, hearl.l.As proofs of holy writ"Are, to the jealous confirmations strong"—tiifles, light as air,animus10211020a laughAjax flagellifer101910181017***1016101510141013l.10121011vice versâ,1010producing the Report of the Finance CommitteeWhat feats he did that day.But we'll remember with advantagesOld men forget; yes, all shall be forgot,1009Sir James spoke from what are usually called the Opposition Benches1008Sir J. Graham
10261025 said, that if the House voted with the hon. Gentleman, it would be on grounds very different from any he had stated; for the hon. Gentleman seemed to despise not only the Finance Committee, but every Committee that had ever sat in that House. He could tell the hon. Member that Committees of that House were held in respect by all the Ministers of the Crown; the right hon. the Secretary of State had spoken of them with great respect, and even the Marquis of Londonderry had declared, in opposition to a motion for the appointment of a Committee on Finance, that their situation was so peculiar, and their powers so great, it was desirable not to make them too common. The hon. Member should recollect, that the Finance Committee of which he spoke so lightly had
10261025Lord John Russell
l.l.l. differed altogether from the noble Lord and the hon. Baronet on this question. He was a military man, and he felt it necessary to give his vote for the army. The House complained of the increase of military offices, and they should not complain of these offices, which were given them as privates. The office, he believed, was but a poor 1,200l.l.l.Colonel Gordon
1027, in a tone so low as to be scarcely audible in the gallery, stated his conviction, founded on the opinion of the noble Duke, as well as of his father (the Marquis of Anglesea,) that the office of Lieutenant-general was abso-
1027The Earl of Uxbridge
1037hear hear!1036l.l.1035l.l.l.103410331032 said, no man was more disposed than he was, to give full credit to the hon. Baronet, who moved the Amendment for the most perfect sincerity, yet he was sure, that the hon. Baronet would not desire to be exempt from that ordinary rule of debate, by which all that was said by one party was not taken for granted by their opponent, but submitted to that close
1037hear hear!1036l.l.1035l.l.l.103410331032Mr. Peel
1040s.l.10391038 said, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) had himself fallen into the error of which he had accused his hon friend the Member for Cumberland, who brought forward this Motion. In the speech with which he had just favoured the House, his right hon. friend had drawn their attention to any thing rather than to the particular question on which they were to be called upon to vote. His right hon. friend had mixed up a great variety of
1040s.l.10391038Mr. C. Grant
1041 contended, that his right hon. friend who spoke last had not proved that this office was unnecessary. He complained of the right hon. the Secretary of State diverging from the subject before the House, but he had done the same thing himself. His right hon. friend, with many other Members, laid great stress upon the opinion of the Finance Committee, but as the evidence taken before that Committee had been printed, he could not see why the House at large was not as capable of forming a judgment on that evidence as the twenty-one hon. Members of whom the Committee had been composed. Now it should be recollected, that when this question was formerly brought under the consideration of the House, there was a majority of above 200 Members against a minority of about 92, negativing the recommendation of the Committee. Let it also be remarked, that that decision was come to the year before last. It was natural to suppose, therefore, that its justice was acquiesced in, as the hon. Member for Montrose would certainly not have passed it over last year, when the Estimates were under consideration. Indeed, thehon. Baronet, in bringing forward his present proposition, was, in his opinion, rather poaching upon the hon. Member for Montrose's manor. As to the distress on which so much had been said, he believed it was in a great measure going away. At that hour he would not open a new subject, but he would name one place highly interesting to the agricultural com-
1041Colonel Wood
, in rising to address the House in reply, could not but take the advantage of congratulating them on the fact (if it could be realised) of the decrease of public distress. He could not, however, fail to observe the equivocal proof given by the hon. Member for Breconshire, of the decrease of the public distress. The hon. Member, as a proof of his assertion, had told them that the price of corn had risen in Mark-lane. Why, there was no circumstance which so aggravated the public distress as that. It was the high price of corn, contrasted with the low rate of wages, which pressed upon the labouring population with such fatal effect. He should not, however, upon that question, and at that hour, go further into the question of the cause of the present distress; and after the able speech of his right hon. friend (Mr. C. Grant), he should feel it almost superfluous to say anything in reply to the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department. One observation, however, he would make. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed his surprise at the cheer which he (Sir J. Graham) had given to the remarks made upon the punishment (so he must call it) inflicted upon General Clinton. But if the right hon. Gentleman thought that cheer a matter of surprise, he (Sir J. Graham) was still more surprised at the cheer which he believed the right hon. Gentleman had given to the remark of the hon. Member for Breconshire, that this Motion had not been brought forward in the course of last year.Sir James Graham
 said, the hon. Baronet was mistaken, he had not cheered.Mr. Peel
10441043, in continuation, was glad to hear the denial, for he should indeed have been sorry that the strenuous support that side of the House had last
10441043Sir James Graham
 utterly disclaimed having cheered any observation which tended to reflect on Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House for not having brought forward this Motion last year.Mr. Peel
1031 said, he did not rise to
1031Lord E. Somerset
 stated, that notwithstanding the majority which the Government had in the Finance Committee, that Committee had come to the resolution of recommending the abolition of the office of Lieutenant-general. He conceived that the duties of that officer could be better performed by one of the Generals of the Artillery, than by officers of the line; for they were such as required some scientific knowledge. In his opinion it would be economical to appoint an artillery officer to do the duties.Mr. Maberly
 felt it necessary to explain the vote he had given the other evening, and at the same time to guard himself against the inconsistency which the noble Lord seemed to dread. He had voted for the pension to the sons of Cabinet Ministers because he thought that having filled office they deserved the retiring allowance, and because he wished to show that Ministers deserved credit for having reduced these offices when so filled. He had voted with Ministers then, because, although he loved economy as much as any man, he loved justice more. He had read the Finance Report with attention, and came down prepared to vote for the Amendment of the noble Baronet, but after hearing what had fallen from the noble Lord, and after weighing the high testimony that there was in favour of continuing the office, he was compelled to vole against the hon. Baronet.Mr. Liddell
1030l.10291028 said, he thought with the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) that the testimony of the noble Lord, or his noble friend, if he would allow him to call him so,—and well he might if great respect and long acquaintance could justify the use of the term,— his noble friend's testimony, derived as it was from his noble father, well deserved the attention of the Committee. The
1030l.10291028Sir Henry Hardinge
 denied that the constitution of the Board of Ordnance had been altered since 1828. The number of military officers belonging to it was the same now as before that period.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, it was impossible for Government to delay any longer the building of a new hospital, after our force off that station had been increased. The estimates for it had been regularly submitted to the Treasury, which Board had not consented to the measure till the emergency arose which required a large additional force in the Mediterranean.Mr. Croker
 repeated his former statement, that all the necessary estimates had been laid before the Treasury in July last —that at that time they had been rejected, —but that, in consequence of the emergency which had rendered it necessary for us to send an increased force into the Mediterranean, it had been deemed necessary to proceed with the building of the hospital.Mr. Croker
l.l. did not object to the particular vote of 300l.l.Mr. Monck
993 objected to the vote for what is called "the widow's charity," which, he said, was a misnomer. In the ordinary acceptation of the word 'charity' meant a gift from the rich to the poor; in this case, however, the poor contributed to raise a fund for the benefit of the rich,
993Mr. Monck
989 said, that he was present at the meeting in Kent, and it gave him great pain to see how great and how universal was the distress of the people. When they found themselves in this condition, it was not to be wondered at, that they should call for a reform in Parliament, and declare that had they obtained reform in time, many of their present evils would have been averted. Indeed, before this petition had been agreed to by the meeting, an address to the King, for Parliamentary Reform, was adopted, on the ground that the people were tired of seeking it from the House of Commons. His hon. friend's efforts to impede this vigour beyond the law, for so he must call the fact of the people addressing the King because they were tired of addressing the House of Commons, were as unavailing on Penenden-heath as similar efforts made by him in the previous year, in that House, were in averting the great inroad upon the Constitution which was then perpetrated. He believed that many measures had at various times passed through the House of Commons which would not have been so successful had the people had a little more influence over their representatives. This was the complaint made by Mr. Pitt in 1782, who said, that without reform it was impossible to save this nation from being plunged into new wars; that with-
989Mr. Wells
 said, that before the Report was brought up, he wished to know! whether or not it was the intention of his, Majesty's Ministers to ask for a grant of money for works in Canada. He put this i question because an hon. friend of his, who had a motion standing relative to that colony, desired to know, and could not attend in his place to ask, and he thought, as well as his hon. friend, that no vote should pass till the general questions connected with that colony had been discussed. He thought that the right hon. and gallant General at the head of the Colonial Government should bring forward his propositions on the subject before any money was asked for. The complaints of the people of that colony were so numerous, and in his opinion so well ground-ed, that to vote money for the colony till the causes of them were removed appeared to him highly improper. In fact, unless some conciliatory measure were first introduced, he should resist the grant of any money whatever for Canada.Mr. Hume
l.l. stated, that the object of his hon. friend was, to see one principle adopted throughout the public service, according to which the widow of an officer should no more be pensioned than the widow of a private soldier. It seemed to him extremely hard that the widow of a soldier, who had served in all countries and climates for the greater part of his life, should receive nothing, while the widow of an officer, who had perhaps served only a few years, and never been abroad, should be provided for. At present the Army, the Navy, the Ordnance, in short, every branch of the public service, had its own peculiar system of granting pensions, which to him appeared very improper, and he should recommend that pensions be altogether abolished. They! encouraged marriage, which, in his opinion,' ought rather to be discouraged in the officers as well as in the men. The present system encouraged officers to many, and unless it were checked the charge for pensions must augment every year. It was the duty of the Government to make some alteration, and at least to have one general uniform system for granting pensions in every branch of the public service. The hon. Member also protested against the grant of 300l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. asked, what necessity there was to have flag officers at Portsmouth, Plymouth, Chatham, and Cork, particularly at Chatham, where there were never more than two or three ships. The salaries of these officers amounted to 12,000. or 14,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l. objected to the sum of 5,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, he objected to the conduct of Government, because it was opposed to the principle that no foreign works should be executed without the consent of Parliament, unless upon cases of emergency. In confirmation of that opinion the hon. Member quoted the following Order of the Treasury on this subject, dated in 1791, and signed H. Dundas. "My Lords are of opinion that no Commander-in-chief or governor is authorised to incur any expenses for which money has not been already granted by Parliament, or which has not been previously approved of by his late Majesty, and his Majesty's order signified by this Board for that purpose. That, secondly, if any governor or Commander-in-chief shall be of opinion that any expense ought to be incurred for the good of his Majesty's ser- vice, he is previously to make a re presentation thereof to the proper office at home, which is to communicate the same to this Board that his Majesty's pleasure may be taken thereupon, and that a proper estimate may be laid before Parliament, to the end that such sums may be granted as Parliament should think necessary for that purpose."Mr. Hume
l.l.l. called upon the Committee to consider well what they were going to do. If they determined to make a dockyard at Pembroke, they would soon be called upon to vote money for the purpose of building fortifications to protect it, for the dock-yard could not protect itself. He should therefore propose to postpone the voting of this item of 2,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 consented to withdraw his Amendment. He had another question, however, to put to the gallant officer opposite. How was it that he came to ask the Committee this year to vote 3,000/. for works upon the lakes in Canada?Mr. Hume
 wished to know what amount of money had been already drawn on account of this work.Mr. Hume
 was glad to hear it—but still thought that Government had made but a very lame case of it.Mr. Hume
l. said, that there was another item in this vote to which he felt considerable objection. After voting a million and a half for new churches, he could not see any reason why the Committee should be called upon to vote 4,000l.Mr. Hume
102410231022 said, he rose on the present occasion with considerable diffidence, for he knew it was out of his power to compete with the hon. Baronet, in securing the attention of that House. If he failed, then, in convincing the Committee that they ought to reject the proposed reduction, he knew that his failure
102410231022Mr. Spencer Perceval
, in explanation, expressed a high respect for every member of the Finance Committee, and declared he did not intend to impute ignorance, in the sense ascribed to it, to any member of that Committee. He only wished to suggest to the House that it was probable, as the committee was composed of unprofessional men, that it might have formed its opinion on insufficient grounds.Mr. Perceval
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1007l.l.l.l.l.l.1006 then rose, to propose the Ordnance Estimates to the Committee, but spoke in so low and indistinct a tone that the greater part of his speech was inaudible in the gallery. We understood him to say, that he should not have occasion to occupy much of the time of the Committee, as the duty which he had to perform was fortunately very simple. The reductions which had been made in the Ordnance Department in the year 1820 had been carried to the utmost point to which they could be well carried, with a due regard to the proper equipment and permanent efficacy of that branch of the public service: and therefore he should not have to detain them long by enumerating the retrenchments which had taken place in this department. Under the present circumstances of the country, it might seem to some hon. Members that the reduction of the Estimates this year was not such as they had reason to expect; but they
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1007l.l.l.l.l.l.1006Mr. S. Perceval
1042 would shortly state the grounds of his vote. Whether the sum which it was proposed to save was large or small, it was the duty of the House to apply to the consideration of it the principles of economy. But then it ought to be an economy well understood. For his part, he believed that the first and truest economy was to provide for the most efficient discharge of the duties of the Board in question. That those duties could not be discharged so efficiently without the existence of the office which it was now proposed to abolish was the undoubted opinion of all by whom that office had been held. The right hon. Gentleman had relied much on the circumstance of the holder of the office having been fourteen months absent in Portugal; but he ought to recollect, that during those fourteen months the duties had been discharged by increased exertion on the part of the other chief officer of the department. That increased exertion was such as a man of talent might employ upon an emergency, or under peculiar circumstances, but he could not be expected always to continue such exertions. Besides, if that were an argument for the abolition of this office, there was scarcely any office that might not be in like manner abolished. The duties of the office of First Lord of the Treasury had been discharged during the illness of the Earl of Liverpool by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the other chief officers of the Government; but was that a reason why we should have no First Lord of the Treasury? He recollected that when Mr. Fox was indisposed, the business of his office was performed by Lord Spencer and others; but was that any reason why the office which that eminent statesman then held ought to be abolished? Surely no one would
1042Mr. Charles Wynn
 said, that the object of his constituents was—first, to obtain relief from the present weight of taxation, under which they were fast sinking; and next, to obtain Parliamentary Reform, with the view of preventing similar evils in! future. The distress of the country was great, and he believed in too many cases rents were paid out of capital, and not from profits of cultivation. That was not the first nor the fourth petition which had been sent from the county of Kent, in favour of a reform of Parliament; but the present great distress of the petitioners now made them more solicitous than ever to obtain reform. For himself he would say, that he had for twenty years been an advocate for reform, and the experience of each successive year had only given greater strength to his first impressions upon that question.Mr. Honywood
1005 observed, that having a great
1005Mr. Trant
988l.l. had a Petition to present j from the Gentry and Freeholders of the county of Kent, the result of the late important meeting which had been held at Penenden-heath. He could not present it without observing, that it afforded one more proof of the continued existence of the distress which unfortunately afflicted the country. One of his strongest apprehensions was that which a right hon. Gentleman opposite had so lately expressed —namely, that the effect of the present depressed state of the landed interest would be to diminish the number of that class of most useful and influential country gentlemen who had from 1,200988l.l.Sir E. Knatchbull
 stated, that there was no separate charge for victualling the marines.Sir G. Clerk
 said, that there were so many local advantages about this yard, that he could assure the Committee that there was no intention to abandon it.Sir G. Clerk
 stated, that the amount of the pension was always determined by the rank of the officer when he died, and that: measures would be adopted to prevent the increase of this branch of expenditure.Sir G. Clerk
1000l.l. proceeded to move the remainder of the Navy Estimates, and commenced by moving a sum of 99,0001000l.l.Sir G. Clerk
994 said, that pensions of that kind were no longer granted, nor had there been any granted to the widows of commissioners appointed since the year 1825. Before that time, however, they
994Sir G. Cockburn
 replied, that these Admirals were necessary to carry on the public service, and as none but old and distinguished officers were appointed to these situations, they might also be considered as the reward of merit. He did not think that it would be possible to dispense with the services of such officers, or reduce the Estimate any lower.Sir G. Cockburn
1001 said, that Government
1001Sir G. Cockburn
.— None has been drawn yet.Sir G. Cockburn
l.l. said, that this sum was wanted to keep up the works which were necessary for the repair of the ships we had on the lakes at the close of the American war. By the treaty then made, we had a right to keep them in repair, though we could not increase their number. It was impossible to say what the expense of these establishments might be in time of war; but it would never exceed 2,000l.l.Sir G. Cockburn
 said, that all the patronage the captains had enjoyed was to be continued with respect to the appointment of midshipmen; but they were to be deprived of the nomination of the first class of volunteers. One captain received a number of volunteers on board, and then perhaps in six months another was appointed, who received an additional number, and so they continued until the ship returned, when they were set on shore without any provision. To remedy this evil the Admiralty had taken the appointments into their own hands, resolving to receive none who were not afterwards to be provided for.Sir G. Cockburn
 said, he had no doubt that the Duke of Wellington and the right hon. Gentleman had given their evidence in perfect sincerity, and were at the time convinced that they were correct in their opinions; but he contended that the House had a right to be satisfied with respect to the reasons on which their opinions were founded, without meaning to throw reflections on the evidence, or to arraign the motives of those by whom such was given. In the present instance the committee was satisfied that the reasons given for preserving the two offices were insufficient, as they found that the duties of the Lieutenant-general could very well be performed by the Master-general, as they had often been before. What were the duties which the Lieutenant-general had to perform, exclusively of what he performed as a Board officer? None, except it was those of the Master-general, when he was absent. In that case he admitted that the Lieutenant-general was an efficient officer. But if it were the business of Government to provide for the absence of their officers, they ought to have a deputy for every office. The right hon. Gentleman had taken the average times of absence of the Master-general during a certain period of years; but he did not think that that would do away with the plain fact, that the Master-general was absent for fourteen months together. It had been stated that the Finance Committee preferred this Board to any other Government board. The reason of that was, that every officer had distinct duties to perform, with one single exception, and that was the Lieutenant-general. He knew that the duties now assigned to this officer were ably performed by the noble Lord who held the office, but he was decidedly of opinion that the office either of the Master-general or of the Lieutenant-general was unnecessary. The noble Lord concluded by expressing his' intention of voting in favour of the Amendment.Lord Althorp
 said, that he believed a new hospital was wanted at Malta, and therefore he did not blame Government for having built one. But it did not appear to him that there had been that sort of sudden emergency which justified Ministers in going to such an expense without the previous sanction of Parliament. At the same time, when the question was whether our wounded seamen should be provided with a comfortable hospital; instead of being carried to a bad one, up a steep hill, which must add to their sufferings, he could not object to the vote.Lord Althorp
 spoke in favour of the Amendment. He protested against the House being led by the opinions of the Duke of Wellington, and he thought that the power of doing without the service of the Lieutenant-general for some months was the best proof of the unnecessary nature of the office. His opinion was formed on facts, not on the opinions of other men, and therefore he should vote for the Amendment.Lord Howick
 informed the House, that notwithstanding the authorities it had heard quoted in favour of the office in question, there were also some which could be adduced of an opposite nature. Lord Moira, in 1810, said that the Lieutenant-general had no duties to perform beyond what he performed as a Board-officer, except in the case of the absence of the Master-general. It appeared that Ministers in that House were inclined to adopt the doctrine broached elsewhere, and to hold committees cheap. The only recommendation for specific reduction given by the Finance Committee was with respect to the office under debate, and that recommendation had been neglected. He considered the diminution in taxation which the House must make ought to make it more earnest than ever in reducing the expenditure.Lord Morpeth
1054 wished, as he saw his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his place, to call his attention to the subject of the
1054Mr. C. Grant
 said, he was ready to do all in his power to bring the subject of the Sugar Duties before the House as early after Easter as possible. The state of the public business might be such as to prevent him bringing it on very early; but he would, as soon after Easter as possible, inform his right hon. friend when he should bring in the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—It was sanctioned by Act of Parliament.Lord Lowther
lllllll said, he felt called upon to explain the real nature of the transaction in which his noble father (the Duke of Portland) was concerned, and which had been misrepresented by the hon. Member. The right hon. member for Liverpool could bear witness that when his father wished to dispose of his interest in the living of Mary-le-bone, it was valued by an eminent land-surveyor at 46,000lllllllLord George Bentinck
lll1090lllllllll1089ll1088llll1087ll1086lllllllll1085llll1084 next addressed the House, but in so low a tone that he was indis-
lll1090lllllllll1089ll1088llll1087ll1086lllllllll1085llll1084Lord Lowther
ll1093lllllllllll1092Without our special wonder?"And overcome us like a summer's cloud,—"Can such things be,lllllllllllllllllll1091 said, he knew not what impression the speech of the hon. Mover had made on the House, but of this he was sure, that it would make a deep impression on the nation at large; and he conceived that every thinking man must come to this conclusion, that it was a matter of very great importance that a very rigorous investigation should be instituted with respect to the proceedings of this Board. He thanked the hon. Member for the very able and clear statement he had made, and for the great research which he had displayed. The noble Lord complained of the hon. Mover for having adopted so wide an extent of observation: but without going back so far, applying himself to the triennial Report of the Commissioners only, he thought he should be able to show, that if abuses existed formerly in this department, they had not ceased when that Report was brought out. He wished it to be plainly understood, that in what he was about to say, he meant not to cast any imputation on the noble Lord, because he believed that the noble Lord was not in office when that to which he was going to call the attention of the House took place. What he had to reprehend applied not to him, but to his predecessors. From what appeared in that Report, it was evident that the revenue of the Crown, as now managed, was most unproductive; so far at least as the public interest was concerned. There seemed to be a most improvident expenditure, and not a single shilling was brought into the Exchequer. He could show that no surplus of the land revenue appeared for the last
ll1093lllllllllll1092Without our special wonder?"And overcome us like a summer's cloud,—"Can such things be,lllllllllllllllllll1091Colonel Davies
1096lll1095llll1094ll next addressed the House, but in so low a tone of voice as to preclude the possibility of giving a clear and connected account of what fell from him. The hon. Gentleman was understood to say, in reply to the observations of the preceding speaker, that the hon. Member had not stated fairly the opinion of the Commissioners of Land Revenue Inquiry in 1786. It was true the Commissioners in one part of their Report expressed an opinion, that under favourable circumstances the income of the Land-revenues and Crown estates from all sources might finally amount to 400,0001096lll1095llll1094llMr. Arbuthnot
 said, in explanation, that he did not mean to find any fault with what had been done under Mr. Arbuthnot's direction.Colonel Davies
 only rose to complain that the passage from Waterloo-place into the Park was not to be kept open. He had no wish to enter into the discussion of the general question then before the House, but he was most desirous to obtain an assurance from Ministers that there should be a footway preserved from Pall Mall into St. James's park. He attached indeed great importance to this subject, because he thought that the convenience of large numbers of the community was always a matter of importance. After expending hundreds of thousands of pounds on ridiculous buildings at the end of the Parks, he considered that it would be very hard if the public were to be denied this great convenience. Regent-street had become a great thoroughfare, which ought therefore to be continued right across the Park. The expense of making a footway would be a mere trifle.Sir John Sebright
 contended, that the hon. member for Colchester had misunderstood the meaning of the statute of Queen Anne, which he seemed to think vested the whole property of the Crownlands in the public, and gave the Parliament a right to dispose of them, so that his object in moving for a committee was to obtain a recommendation to sell the Crown property.The Solicitor-General
 "said, No.Mr. Hartley
1108 said, the honourable Member had carefully enumerated how much each part of the Crown property would fetch, whence it might be fairly inferred, that he meant to sell it. In fact, however, the Act of Anne did not confer upon Parliament the right of disposing of the Crown property, or of the Church-livings in the gift of the Crown, any more than it gave the power of revising private property, or the adowsons possessed by individuals. That Statute did not divest the Crown of the property; it said that, the Land-revenue should go in aid of the honour and dignity of the Crown, and forbad the alienation of lands, or the granting leases beyond a certain period. It was not until the statute of George 3rd,
1108The Solicitor General
1114 expressed his satisfaction at hearing such sound constitutional doctrines from his hon. friend. He too looked on this Bill, and the bill relating to the importation of arms into Ireland, with considerable alarm. He thought there was in both the measures an indication that the Government was apprehensive for the continuance of tranquillity in Ireland. Unless the Bill were supported by some stronger reasons than had yet been urged in its favour, the noble Lord would certainly find it difficult to procure the assent of the House to it. In reference to the police of London, it was necessary to observe, that the expenses of it were wholly
1114Mr. Robert Gordon
 inquired, if the sub-inspectors were to be substituted for the pay-clerks; and if they were to give security for the performance of their duties?Mr. Chichester
 deprecated further discussion at that late hour, but he was obliged to remark, that the appointment of sub-inspectors would cause no additional expense whatever, and therefore the objections on that score were groundless. As to the force being unconstitutional, he could only say that an objection of that nature was urged when it was first established; but whether unconstitutional or not, it had been productive of much good. His hon. friend would perhaps consider that well before he acted on his determination to oppose the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1113 said, he was anxious that the constabulary force should be improved, but he regretted to see the disposition of the Government to deprive the magistracy of Ireland of its legitimate influence, nor did he think the substitution of the police constable for the magistrate, as the medium through which the Government was to obtain information of the state of the country, would be advantageous. He knew that the constable at Mallow was directed to send communications to the government without consulting the magistracy, and on one occasion he had made such a communication which might have been attended with injurious consequences. That town was one of the most quiet towns in Ireland, but the constable, taking all his information from a disappointed Orangeman, represented it as agitated by party spirit and in a disturbed state. If, therefore, the noble Lord meant to rely for information as to the state of Ireland on
1113Mr. Jephson
l1111 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Acts relating to the appointment of Constables in Ireland. The noble Lord stated, that the principal provision of his Bill was to take away from the local Magistracy the appointment of Constables, and to vest that appointment in the Government of Ireland. He meant by making that alteration to cast no imputation on the Irish Magistracy; but it was found necessary to take the first nomination of constables out of its hands, and place it in those of the executive Government. He should propose, therefore, that in future this appointment should vest in the Government, and he should also propose that a new class of officers, to be called sub-inspectors, should be appointed. The object of appointing those officers was, to ensure a more ready and efficient superintendence over the constabulary force than at pre-
l1111Lord Francis Leveson Gower
 was bound to express his conviction, that as long as the appointment of constables was left in the hands of magistrates, who had always servants to provide for, improper persons would be appointed. He approved therefore of the Government taking the responsibility on itself.Mr. Alexander Dawson
11101109 said, in reply, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had supplied him with an argument in favour of a committee, of which he was not before aware, for the hon. and learned Gentleman had raised a doubt whether the property were not absolutely vested in the Crown. He would not enter into that discussion, but it was time, if that were the case, that the public should be disabused of the error of supposing that this revenue was as much under the control of Parliament as the Excise or the Customs. He was particularly surprised at what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, though he had been surprised at many things he had heard that night,—for that hon. and learned Gentleman had a few nights before expressed an opinion, that the revenue of the Crown-lands might be improved, and now he spoke of the management of them as quite perfect. There was one point on which he was certainly in error. He spoke of the Crown-lands soon maintaining the dignity of Royalty; but the most valuable part of them, that in the neighbourhood of all the improvements to which he alluded, had within ten years been let on lease for ninety-nine years, and till the expiration of the leases, would yield nothing more than at present to the Crown. His only object in moving for the committee, and he did not care how it was attained, was, to make the Land Revenues of the Crown available to the service of the country. The right hon. member for Liverpool seemed to be in error in the construction he put on the Act of 1794, for it said
11101109Mr. Harvey
 said, he had advocated no such thing.Mr. D. W. Harvey
lllllllllll1081llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1080llllld.s.lllll1079ls.lllllllllll1078lllllll1077lllLoud cries of "'Hear.lllllll, —I know that there was an Act of Parliament to sanction it, but I likewise know that you may get an Act of Parliament for any thing. Then there was 21,000lllllllllll1081llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1080llllld.s.lllll1079ls.lllllllllll1078lllllll1077lllLoud cries of "'Hear.lllllllMr. D. W. Harvey
l1070s.lll1069lllllll1068llllllll1067d.,s.llllllll1066lll1065llllllll1064llll1063llllllllll1062lllllllll1061lls.lllld.,s.ll1060ds.ll1059lllll1058llllllin capite,1057llll1056, in rising to redeem the pledge he had given at the close of the last Session, to bring under the notice of the House the present state and management of the Crown Lands, expressed his regret that it had not fallen into the hands of some more distinguished Member, who might relieve the dryness of the subject by adorning it with the graces of eloquence. His regret was somewhat lessened by having observed that the greatest talents had of late led men into the greatest inconsistencies, and that, at present, ordinary minds, acting under honest impressions, might be of the most substantial advantage to the country. He only claimed to be one of this class; he pretended to none of the advantages of learning, and could claim none of the support which faction or party sometimes lent to individuals. He presented himself to the House as a representative of the people, to bring under its notice a source of the national revenue which had been greatly perverted, and required to be judiciously applied to be made available to the public service. There was scarcely a part of either our domestic or foreign policy which had been less inquired into; for, with the exception of one examination under the authority of a committee, in 1786—with the exception of that solitary examination, the subject had not been inquired into by the House since 1705, shortly after the accession of Queen Anne. It could not be said, therefore, that this was one of those subjects which had grown tedious by repetition. He did not regret that circumstances had deferred his Motion, as it had given time to display a glimmering of anxiety on the part of his Majesty's Ministers, if not to promote reform themselves, at least not to check those who were reformers. He was glad to see that they had recognised public opinion, and he neither would damp the hopes nor falsify the pretensions which had been raised by their late reductions. The right hon. the Member for Liverpool had stated the other night, much to his satisfaction, that one source to which we might look for the improvement of our revenue was the Crown-lands. He wished at the outset to state, that the object of his Motion was to move for a committee to inquire into the present state
l1070s.lll1069lllllll1068llllllll1067d.,s.llllllll1066lll1065llllllll1064llll1063llllllllll1062lllllllll1061lls.lllld.,s.ll1060ds.ll1059lllll1058llllllin capite,1057llll1056Mr. D. W. Harvey
lllll1076llll1075ld.,s.lld.,s.llll1074d.s.ld.s.ld.s.ld.,s.lll1073lllls.lllllllll1072lllllllllllll1071llllllll. —The lease began in 1802, when the value of land was much greater than at present. This land was first let in 1771, on a thirty years' lease, at a rent of 60lllll1076llll1075ld.,s.lld.,s.llll1074d.s.ld.s.ld.s.ld.,s.lll1073lllls.lllllllll1072lllllllllllll1071llllllllMr. D. W. Harvey
1115 said, he was sure that the proposed alteration would be very beneficial to Ireland. The constabulary force was rendered in a measure inefficient by the present mode of appointing constables, which left the way open to party feelings and to much corruption. As to the expense, he was not prepared to say that it should not be wholly borne by the parishes of Ireland, in the same manner as the local police was supported by the parishes of England. At present he knew that no expense was more unpopular in Ireland than that of the constabulary force, but if the Grand Juries were invested with the power of controlling that expense, they would be less repugnant to increasing it. At present the law said, that there should be sixteen constables for each Barony, and this number, though in some places perhaps totally unnecessary, the Grand Jury had no power to reduce. He was surprised
1115Mr. George Dawson
1098lllllll1097ll supported the Motion. Fault had been found with the course pursued by the hon. Member, but he thought that he had done right in going back to the ancient state of things, for had it been otherwise, the hon. Member would have been charged with not understanding his subject. He did not intend to charge any one with actual corruption, but the very nature of the office threw open opportunities which were better avoided. The importance of the measure brought forward by the hon. Member was indisputable, and yet the benches of the House showed how little attention was paid to it. The other night, when the question was only about 9001098lllllll1097llMr. Hume
, in presenting a Petition from the inhabitants of North Nibley, complaining of great Distress, and praying relief; stating that of 1600 persons, 800 were receiving relief, observed, that it was impossible to doubt the existence of great and overwhelming distress when such facts were continually brought before the House. The petitioners justly observed, that whether their distress was caused by legislative measures or not, there could be no doubt that it was greatly aggravated by taxation. He believed that nothing but a reduction of taxation, and the abolition of the Corn-laws, and all other monopolies would give the people relief. The evil consequences of those laws were every day becoming more apparent, and they could not possibly be preserved. In looking at the papers on the Table, it was impossible to avoid concluding, that the great increase of crime they unfortunately proved was chiefly to be attributed to taxation. In each of the five years ending with 1809, the number of persons committed for trial was, on an average, 4,692; between 1820 and 1824, that number was increased to 13,005; in 1825, the number was 14,437: it had progressively increased every subsequent year, and in 1829 was no less than 18,675, being upwards of 6,000 more in 1829 than in 1823, or an increase of 50 per cent in six years. He found, on looking over these accounts, that not more than one individual sentenced to death out of three was executed, and that thirty out of 100 of those committed were acquitted. In Scotland he believed the persons acquitted did not bear a larger proportion to those committed than one in ten. That might be the consequence of the different methods of administering the law in the two countries: but there could be no doubt, that the great increase of distress was the cause of the vast increase in petty larcenies which these returns shewed.Mr. Hume
 said, that he had last year asked a question about the passage into the Park from Waterloo-place, and about a new opening into Kensington Gardens; and he had received such an answer as satisfied him and his friends around him that both openings would be made. Considering that they would be advantageous to the public, he hoped that the resolution would be carried into effect.Mr. Ridley Colborne
l1112 expressed some alarm at the proposition of his noble friend, and though he was thoroughly persuaded of his good intentions towards Ireland, he could not look without apprehensions at a measure that was to take away from the local magistracy, and place in the hands of the Government the appointment of between 4,000 and 5,000 persons, distri-
l1112Mr. Spring Rice
1105lll1104lllllll1103llllllllll1102lllll1101lll1100llllllllls.1099 said, the hon. Members who had spoken on the other side seemed to regard this property as quite at their disposal. The hon. Member who spoke last accordingly would sell it all off to pay the National Debt; but this plan, though it might appear feasible to him, was attended with one great difficulty: the House could not dispose of these lands. By the Act of the year 1786, the manner in which the Crown-lands could be disposed of was regulated, and when they were sold, the proceeds were ordered to be invested in a particular manner. The Parliament had no right to dispose of (he hereditary revenues of the Crown without its consent; and the Parliament and the Crown were not at liberty to dispose of it beyond the life of his present Majesty. With respect to the observations made by the hon. Member, relating-to the forests, and to timber for the Navy, they seemed to him to be unfounded, and the hon. Member to be not very well informed on that subject. He was ready to admit that from the time of King William up to a period about twenty years ago, the royal forests had been much neglected. The situation of the country then, and the wants of the Navy, induced the Government to turn its attention to the subject, and to carry into execution the Acts of King William. The royal forests were then enclosed and planted, and there were now 40,000 acres of land covered with as fine trees, and in as good a condition, as any forest land in the country,
1105lll1104lllllll1103llllllllll1102lllll1101lll1100llllllllls.1099Mr. Huskisson
1106l resumed: At least the hon. member for Montrose said so; but nobody acquainted with the circumstances affecting the various royal forests was ignorant, that in a great number of instances the Crown did not possess the right to the soil, and that Parliament was not entitled to take any steps with reference to the matter, otherwise than at the suggestion of the Ministers of the Crown. Both the hon. Members had fallen into an inconceivable blunder when they talked of selling the waste parts of the royal forests at the rate of 51106lMr. Huskisson
1107 said, that he believed the public would not be satisfied if they were deprived of the accommodation referred to by the hon. Baronet. The only extenuation of the neglect which he thought visible in that point was, that it showed an impartial disregard to the convenience of the higher as well as the lower orders; for there was perhaps not a single Member of either House who would not find that path a convenience; unless some explanation were given, or unless the way were made, he would certainly move for information to ascertain by whose direction and for what purpose the public wishes were opposed. With respect to the important Question brought before the House by the hon. member for Colchester, he must say that he thought the defence of the Government made by the right hon. the member for Liverpool was satisfactory, and he was glad to hear him express such liberal views as to the mode in which the forests ought to be managed. With respect to the Duke
1107Mr. W. Smith
 had never objected to the constabulary force, but to the Government taking the control of it from the local magistracy, and assuming it all into its own hands. As to his opinions, they remained unchanged, and he opposed the present measure on the same grounds as he had opposed the measure of last year, looking on them both as tending to subvert the Constitution.Mr. Trant
in limine was so much opposed to the principle of the measure, that he was inclined to object in limineMr. Trant
l1083llllllll1082 trusted, that his noble friend would pardon him if he immediately followed the hon. member for Colchester, but he begged to be allowed to make a few observations relative to Sunk Island, to which the hon. Member had alluded. He had been requested to address the House upon that point by the present lessee of the Crown, who perhaps was known to many Members—he meant the Rev. John Lonsdale. He had no personal connexion with the rev. gentleman, and had only known him accidentally from having resided in the parish of which he had been the rector. He admitted the
l1083llllllll1082Sir E, Knatchbull
1055 presented a Petition from certain Inhabitants of Dublin, complaining of the duty on Coals as an infringement on the Act of Union, and praying that it might be repealed. The right hon. Baronet supported the prayer of the Petition, and confirmed the petitioners' statement that the tax was an infringement of the Act of Union. When Mr. Orde's proposition was submitted to the Irish Parliament in 1785, some duty of this kind was contemplated, but at the time of the Union it was distinctly held out to Ireland that she should receive as a been and as an encouragement to her manufactures, coals duty free; while England was still to suffer under the tax now laid on coals carried coast-wise. That promise might be found in one of Lord Castlereagh's published speeches. He lamented, however, to say that the infant manufactures of Ireland had never been relieved from this burthen. After a period of thirty years, for so long a time had elapsed since the Union, he found this duty preserved, and as the Duke of Wellington said, must be preserved: he was at a loss, however, to know on what grounds, since it would be preserved by violating the pledged faith of the Government. If the Legislature were not disposed to cherish the Irish manufacturer by its favour, it ought at least
1055Sir John Newport
 supported Mr. Hume's Motion for an adjournment. The House really was too thin to proceed with the examinations at present.Mr. R. Gordon
 observed, that surely the gallant Officer did not mean to say that the evidence of such persons was worthy of belief.Mr. Alderman Wood
1118 again observed on the very thin attendance of Members, and said that
1118Mr. Gordon
 then observed, that if Members who had taken an active part in the examination absented themselves, it was impossible to go on. He repeated that he wished the case to be most fully investigated, satisfied as he was, that the result would be favourable to the Bill; but after the hon. Member for Montrose and the hon. and learned Member had withdrawn, he felt he could not conveniently press the examination further.Sir H. Hardinge
1117 proposed, that Miss Steele's examination should be taken. That lady was a witness of undoubted respectability, and he should wish her evidence to be taken at that time. He had every desire that the case should be gone into most fully; for the more it was examined, the more, he was convinced, it would appear that Lord Ellenborough was
1117Sir H. Hardinge
. pressed the hon. Members to go through the examination of Miss Steele. There were several Members present, and among them some members of the profession of the law, quite competent to conduct the examination.Sir H. Hardinge
 objected to that course. This was the first divorce case ever so sifted by that House. Lord Ellenborough, however, would have no objection to the case being minutely investigated.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that the fact that a witness had received bribes did not of itself vitiate his evidence.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, there were not forty Members in the House, and he did not think, with such a thin attendance, they ought to go into the examination of witnesses, some of whom it was evident had received bribes, and their testimony was therefore suspicious.Mr. Hume
 opposed proceeding any further at that time. He could assure the House, that when he first came there it was not his intention to ask a single question, nor had he done so until the apparent, the evident contradictions in the testimony of the witnesses were so great as to induce in his mind a suspicion of connivance. He really had never read the evidence that had before been given, and he should not have interfered at all, but for the cause he had stated. He wanted to know what evidence had been given, for he really had not as yet read anything of it? It seemed from what he had heard to-night, that all the servants knew of these occurrences for some months; in fact, that they had been the topics of common conversation in the family. Now, he wanted to know what the servants that had been examined had said, and whether more servants could not be called to explain all they knew about the matter? He had hoped to-day to have been home by five o'clock, but he had been kept here about this business until that hour; and now he was obliged to go away, for he had a very pressing engagement.Mr. Hume
 rose to move its adjournment. The Chairman, he said, ought to report progress, and ask leave to sit another day. He did not think any advantage would arise from continuing the examinations at that hour.Mr. Hume
 brought up the Report of the Committee on this Bill.Lord J. Russell
l.1126ante p.✶ante p.✶ begged leave to second
l.1126ante p.✶ante p.✶Mr. Hobhouse
l. could not agree with the hon. Members, as the measure in all its bearings had been thoroughly discussed in the committee above stairs. He trusted that the House would refuse to alter the rate fixed upon by that committee. In another part of the Bill it was arranged, that where houses were rated under 30l.Sir T. Fremantle
 objected to the principle of the rate fixed by the Bill, as it was an undue attempt to do away with the franchise of a large body of inhabitants. The Select Vestry Committee was to make a Report that night, and he therefore looked upon the present attempt to pass this peculiar Bill, before the general Report was brought up, as an attempt to take an unfair advantage of the ignorance of the House. He was so opposed to the Bill, that he should propose, in the event of his hon. friend's Amendment not being successful, that the Bill should be read that day six months. The Bill was one of so aristocratic and unjust a nature to the poorer rate-payers, that he trusted the House would not sanction it.Sir R. Wilson
 would vote for the Bill as it stood, confident that its principles were the most advantageous to the parishes at large. The Bill, at present, was absolutely necessary, because, as the affairs of the parish stood, no rates could be raised to pay the poor, and he believed it to be well calculated also to meet the differences that had so long existed in the parish.Mr. Ward
l.l.,minimum.l.minimuml.1127 said, that there had never been an Elective Vestry in these parishes, and therefore the present Bill
l.l.,minimum.l.minimuml.1127Lord J. Russell
l.l. begged leave to suggest to his hon. friend, that as the House would appear to be against the Bill, it might be as well to withdraw his Amendment, and propose another, by which every ratepayer should have but one vote. By the Bill, as it. stood, the payer of 30/. had one vote, he of 60l.l.Mr. Hobhouse
 would adopt the suggestion of his hon. friend, and would propose that no voter, be his rate what it might, should have more than one vote under the present Bill.Mr. Hume
 said, he supposed that the Chairman would now report progress, and lay the evidence before the House, in order to have it printed. He presumed that after what had taken place, after such contradictions and inconsistencies as had been extorted from the different witnesses, nobody would think of pressing this matter to an immediate decision. For his own part he was so astounded by the inconsistency of the testimony of the different witnesses, not only with the statements of one another, but also with their own statements, that he knew not at present on what part of it he ought to rest. He could not see how far each witness was to be credited or discredited; and therefore, considering the hurried manner in which the evidence had been elicited from the witnesses, and the indistinct and almost inaudible tones in which several of their answers had been given, he submitted that it would be better that the evidence should be printed, with a view of giving, not only those who were present at the examination of the witnesses, but also those who were absent, an opportunity of judging how far the evidence bore out the allegations in the Bill.Mr. Hume
 said, that the usual practice in cases of this kind was, to report the Bill as amended to the House, and to bring up the evidence along with it. When that was done, then it was competent for any hon. Member to move, first that the evidence be laid on the Table, and then that it be printed. If the House should be of opinion that the evidence ought to be printed, they must wait till it was printed before a day could be fixed for the third reading of the Bill.The Chairman
 asked whether there was a clause in the Bill making a provision for Lady Ellenborough?Mr. Robert Gordon
 answered in the negative.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that it was not customary to introduce such a clause as that the hon. Member alluded to.Dr. Phillimore
 said, that if he had made up his mind on the various points which were suggested by the evidence which had arisen in the course of this investigation, he might be inclined to make no objection to this Motion. But he begged leave to remind the Committee, that it was competent for them to strikeout of this Bill the clause giving the relief which the noble individual prayed for. He thought that it was necessary to report progress, in order to get the evidence printed. Any other course would be like stealing a stage in the progress of the Bill.Mr. Hume
 came forward to the Table with great warmth, and striking it forcibly, expressed his surprise at hearing any hon. Member talk about stages in a bill of this description. To use any unnecessary delay in passing this Bill, after it had been sifted in so unusual—he might almost say, in so unprecedented—a way, would be hurting the feelings and trifling with the honour of both the noble families who were interested in its progress. He did not mean to blame the course which the examination had taken: he was highly satisfied with the part which the relatives of Lady Ellenborough had taken in the course of it: but still, recollecting the peculiar constitution of that House, its popular construction, and its incompetency to examine witnesses upon oath, he was convinced that it was not proper to let a Bill like the present hang in its progress through it. They ought, therefore, to report this Bill without amendment to the House: and if there was any part of it to which the hon. member for Montrose was inclined to object, he could move to strike it out upon the motion for its third reading.Sir H. Hardinge
1130 assured the Committee that he had no wish to hurt the feelings, or to trifle with the honour, of cither of the noble parties who were interested in the progress of this Bill. He had stated yesterday, that when he entered the House he had not the slightest acquaintance with any of the circumstances connected with the present case. He had no previous intention of taking any part in it. The course which he had pursued he had taken almost involuntarily, in consequence of
1130Mr. Hume
Cries of "No." thought that this discussion was quite unnecessary, as the question had been already decided, that the bill should be reported to the House. [Cries of "No."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he had put the question, and that he understood it to have been carried; but, as there appeared to be some doubt upon the subject, the best plan which he could follow would be to put the question again. On his doing so,The Chairman
1131 said, that he rose to express his concurrence in the feelings which had been so properly expressed by his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen. He came into the House yesterday in complete ignorance of the circumstances of this case: but owing to the facts which were then elicited from the various witnesses, he felt it to be his duty to take a part in the investigation. He hoped that he had quite as much delicacy towards the noble parties implicated in this transaction as the gallant officer had; but he could not lose sight of the singular fact, that there had been no investigation into the circumstances of this case in a Court of Common Law, and that it was an unprecedented occurrence that a Divorce Bill should come under their consideration without its resting upon a previous verdict, with damages in favour of the applicant. That occurrence devolved upon the House a most serious and important duty. It bound them to institute a severe and rigorous inquiry into the whole transaction. He did not mean to blame Lord Ellenborough for not instituting such an inquiry, it was
1131Mr. Tennyson
 was sure that nothing was farther from the intention of his right hon. and gallant friend than to impute improper motives to any of the hon. Members who had taken part in this investigation. He was quite willing to admit that, as there was no opposing party to this Bill, it became a duty incumbent upon the House to see that there were the ordinary circumstances deemed necessary to justify a legislative measure of this description. The hon. Gentleman opposite had told them that it was unprecedented to introduce a Bill of this nature into the House unsupported by the verdict of a jury. He believed that the rule in these cases was, that the record of such a verdict should be produced, or that good reason should be shown why it was not. Last year there was a case of precisely the same sort with the present, and that arose from the party against whom the action for damages should have been brought having left England, as in this case, before it was possible to serve him with the necessary process. No one appeared upon that occasion to show cause against the Bill, and it passed accordingly. With respect to the Bill before them, he knew no more of the transaction than hon. Members opposite till he came into the House yesterday. He had interposed upon this occasion, because he was quite certain that his right hon. friend had no wish to cast any imputations upon others.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that in what he had said when he last addressed the Committee, he had no intention to cast any imputation upon hon. Members. He had cast no imputation upon the mode of examination, though it was unusual; indeed he should have been glad if it had been carried further; for the further it was carried, the more honourable would the conduct of Lord Ellenborough appear. He had only complained that the hon. member for Aberdeen had proposed a delay, which in his opinion was quite unnecessary.Sir H. Hardinge
Cries of "No, no; that has been explained."11331132 commenced his obser-
Cries of "No, no; that has been explained."11331132Sir C. Wetherell
 said, he had already disclaimed any such intention.Sir H. Hardinge
11351134: Well, as the gallant officer had been misunderstood, he would not press his observations on that point any further. The gallant officer had said that this inquiry was uncommon, but he seemed to have forgotten that the circumstances which had given rise to it were also uncommon, and that it was precisely on account of the peculiarity of those circumstances that it was necessary to make it. He believed that every Gentleman who then heard him would agree with him, that to add one moment's pain unnecessarily to either of the noble parties to this Bill, was a course which would give quite as much pain to the hon. Member who made such addition, as to the noble parties themselves, and would meet with the severest reprobation and contempt from the House itself. He could not, however, refrain from stating, that though this case came before them labouring under a defect under which no case could labour which came to them based upon the verdict of a jury, it was even now, at the conclusion of the examination of the witnesses, left so naked with respect to the conduct of the husband, as to render it the duty of every member of Parliament to make himself a juror to try that question which, in ordinary cases, was decided by a jury for him. "We are here, Sir," continued Sir C. Wetherell, "as a jury empannelled to try all the circumstances of this case. That is clearly the path of our duty, and I trust that we should not shrink from pursuing it. Participating, as I do most fully, in all the delicacy of feeling for which the right hon. and gallant officer takes to himself so much credit, I must still be permitted to protest against pursuing the course which he has chalked out for us. I beg most particularly to point out to the House that it is its clear, its paramount, its absolute and undeniable duty, to investigate this case fully, freely, fairly and impartially. I am glad that the inquiry has been pushed as far as it has
11351134Sir C. Wetherell
 thought, that as the case was now closed in evidence, every Gentleman who had listened to that evidence would feel that he owed it no. less to his own feelings, than to the honour of the parties implicated, to take the earliest opportunity of stating his opinion as to its effects. He did not regret that the Committee had entered into this investigation; for though he had come into the House in total ignorance of the evidence which was to be laid before it, he now felt himself called upon to declare, that it had left upon his mind, as far as that evidence went, the most satisfactory conviction that not even the shadow of a charge of collusion or misconduct was imputable to Lord Ellenborough. As far, therefore, as his opinion was concerned, he was prepared to give to his Lordship the relief which he now sought, and he trusted that that relief would be given with as little delay as possible.Lord Nugent
 protested against being called upon at this period to give any opinion on the last point mentioned by the noble Lord who preceded him. Hearing the evidence as rapidly and as indistinctly as every Member of the House must have heard it, he confessed his inability to give any opinion upon it at that moment. He must read it over before he could pretend to be roaster of its voluminous and contradictory character.Mr. Hume
 having resumed the Chair,The Speaker
 brought up the Report, and laid the evidence on the Table of the House.Sir G. Clerk
1136 then moved, that the evidence taken before the Committee on Lord Ellenborough's Divorce Bill should be printed. He was not aware that any objection could be taken to this proposition,
1136Mr. Hume
 seconded the Motion. He could have wished to have been spared the pain of this investigation; but as it had been commenced, it was necessary, for the sake of public morality, to proceed with it, and to have the evidence printed. He had been in the House last night, and had witnessed the singular series of contradictions which the witnesses for the Bill had given to each other's testimony; and he therefore was of opinion, that unless the question was to be decided by the twenty Members who heard the evidence of last night, and by those twenty Members only, it was indispensable to print the evidence which had been taken by the Committee.Mr. Warburton
 said, that in his opinion this was a case which addressed itself particularly to the feelings of the House. As to the point of form, this Motion was clearly in contravention of it: yet if it should be the feeling of the House that the evidence ought to be printed, he would not object to it, even though the delay of printing it would add three or four days of suspense and anguish to the families of the noble Lord and Lady whose interests the Bill affected. He saw no necessity for printing the evidence, but he would not oppose the Motion.Sir Henry Hardinge
 declared it as his opinion, that in a case of this peculiar importance to the moral welfare of the community, (he House would scarcely perform its duty if it did not order the evidence to be printed. Deprecating the idea of adding the slightest degree of torture and suspense to any party, he must say that not only the most ample and cautious deliberation, but also the appearance of it, was due to themselves, to public morality, to public justice, to the gravity of their proceedings, and to the feelings of the parties concerned and their immediate relations. The want of a verdict in a jury court gave the case a peculiarity which called for more than ordinary circumspection and deliberation.Mr. R. Grant
1137 said,
1137The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman would be correct in his opinion, if only those who heard the evidence were to vote upon the Bill; but twenty Members alone were present when the evidence was given, and he need not say that a great many more would decide the question. The evidence ought to be printed. Divorce was a remedy out of the reach of the lower classes, and naturally regarded on this account with jealousy by the great body of the people. It ought to be recollected, too, that Lord Ellenborough was a member of that other House whose decision was the only suggestion to precede their judgment. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would not oppose the printing of the evidence, without which it would be unbecoming in them to give a vote upon the question.Mr. Tennyson
 declared, in explanation, that his only wish was, to prevent unnecessary exposure, and that more for the sake of the unfortunate lady, whom he had formerly known well, than from any consideration in the remotest degree connected with his Lordship, that he had raised his voice upon the occasion; but if it were the general sense and feeling of the House that this evidence should be printed, he certainly would not oppose it.Sir Henry Hardinge
 declared himself quite satisfied with the evidence, and stated that the sooner the affair was concluded the better it would be for all parties.Mr. Nicolson Calvert
1138 said, his mind was made
1138Mr. Lennard
 did not think it would be right for the House to give their decision without having the evidence printed.Mr. Harrison Batley
 observed, that the House was acting judicially, and thought that in deference to the opinions of many Members, and the dignity of their proceedings, they ought to make these proceedings as judicial as possible. He had no doubt upon the case; but he wished to have the evidence printed.Mr. Home Drummond
 said, his right hon. friend and he had no objection to the evidence being printed. He could state most broadly, that no friend of Lord Ellenborough's could do otherwise, as far as he was concerned, than wish for a publication of the entire transaction.Sir G. Clerk
 had expressed himself most infelicitously if he had given the House to understand that in consideration of his Lordship's interests or feelings he had any objection to having the evidence printed.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that such a clause was never introduced into such Bills.Sir G. Clerk
, as one of the Cotrustees to Lord Ellenborough's marriage settlement, said, that such a provision had been made as had received the approbation of the lady's family.Sir H. Hardinge
1155£23,600
£23,6004,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session2,000In the salary of the Justice General
2,000In the salary of the Justice General1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court
1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court800In the salary of the Judge Admiral
800In the salary of the Judge Admiral£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£23,600
£23,6004,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session2,000In the salary of the Justice General
2,000In the salary of the Justice General1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court
1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court800In the salary of the Judge Admiral
800In the salary of the Judge Admiral£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be1154£4,215,000Making a total of
£4,215,000Making a total of2,839,000Excise
2,839,000Excise£1,376,000Customs
£1,376,000Customs
£4,215,000Making a total of
£4,215,000Making a total of2,839,000Excise
2,839,000Excise£1,376,000Customs
£1,376,000Customsl.l.,l.,115311521151115011491148l.,s.,l.114711461145mensa et thoro,1144l.l.l.11431142114111401139 said, the subject which it was his duty to introduce to the consideration of the House was one of the utmost importance, It affected the general ad-
1155£23,600
£23,6004,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session2,000In the salary of the Justice General
2,000In the salary of the Justice General1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court
1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court800In the salary of the Judge Admiral
800In the salary of the Judge Admiral£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£23,600
£23,6004,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Exchequer4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session
4,000In the salaries of two Judges of the Court of Session2,000In the salary of the Justice General
2,000In the salary of the Justice General1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court
1,800In the salaries of three Judges in the Commissary Court800In the salary of the Judge Admiral
800In the salary of the Judge Admiral£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be
£11,000In the Jury Court the saving would be1154£4,215,000Making a total of
£4,215,000Making a total of2,839,000Excise
2,839,000Excise£1,376,000Customs
£1,376,000Customs
£4,215,000Making a total of
£4,215,000Making a total of2,839,000Excise
2,839,000Excise£1,376,000Customs
£1,376,000Customsl.l.,l.,115311521151115011491148l.,s.,l.114711461145mensa et thoro,1144l.l.l.11431142114111401139he Lord Advocate
1173 said, that the people of Scotland would have reason to feel deeply indebted to Government for having lent their aid in bringing forward the present measure. No doubt there were those who would regard it with distrust and alarm— for some minds were so constituted that they could not help regarding every reform as an innovation, and every change
1173Mr. Maxwell
11751174 felt great pleasure at witnessing the introduction of the present measure. He wished to see the time of the Scotch Judges fairly occupied; but it would be unjust towards them, and mischievous to the public, to overpower them with business. It was not to be disputed that they, like all men, were entitled to that fair allowance of time for their domestic concerns, and for their amusements, he would add, which was alike just towards them and advantageous to the public, The salaries could never be such as would equal the sums obtained by the very highest men at the Bar; but neither should the Judges be selected from the middle classes of the bar: the public ought to have the services of eminent men in the profession, and of the best lawyers, and that could not be had without liberal payment. It was also important that not only should they live respectably, and in such a style as would command the respect of those whose interest they had to decide on, but they should possess such an income as would enable them to effect such savings as might place them above all anxiety with respect to their families, and enable them to devote themselves solely and exclusively to the duties of their situation—giving themselves, head and heart, to the public service. He entirely approved of that part of the measure which went to put an end to the Commissary Court; it would obviously be most convenient and advantageous to transfer its jurisdiction to a superior Court. Besides, by putting an end to that Court, the public service was relieved from the charge of the various Officers and Ministers belonging to that Court. Something had been said of the Court of Exchequer in Scotland; he was not favourable to its abolition—it was the most ancient Court in
11751174The Solicitor General
1176 denied, that Ministers were entitled to much praise for having given their support to the present measure. In doing so they did nothing more than their duty—it was their first and most imperative duty to get rid of unnecessary offices, and more especially was it the duty of the present Government, seeing the circumstances of the country and the pledges which the Ministers of the Crown had given to Parliament. An hon. Member, on the opposite side of the House, had said, that the happy days of Scotland had passed away—that it no longer possessed those prompt and powerful advocates so devotedly at its service in former times; hereby the removal from Scotland of the means of corruption was calculated rather to raise than to depress that country. They had been told of the recent appointment of the Lord Chief Baron, and it was stated as a circumstance highly meritorious in that appointment, and cancelling all the evils of the office, that the person appointed to fill it was in the habit of sitting on that side of the House. It was of little importance, in his opinion, whether the individual appointed to that place were a Whig or a Tory—if the office were a useless office it ought to be abolished, no matter who filled it; whether it were conferred as a reward for past services, or a lure for future sub-serviency, If the office were useless it ought to be abolished. As to the particular measure then under consideration, he hoped and believed that it would give general satisfaction; he was
1176Mr. R. Gordon
, in reply, expressed his gratification that the measure had appeared so generally satisfactory. The most important suggestion that bad been thrown out was, the remark of his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor-general, respecting appeals. He (the Lord Advocate) should certainly look into the subject; but he could tell him that one main cause of the number of Scotch appeals arose from the advantages which appellants had in carrying a cause from a court where the Scotch law was known and easily applied, to a tribunal where it was, comparatively speaking, unknown. With respect to the proposed augmentation of the Judges salaries, in his opinion that was necessary, and would be beneficial to the country.The Lord-Advocate
11841183l.Saw it himself, and showed us it."'And from the mountain-top of his exalted wit,Of the blest Promised Land,Did on the very border standThe barren Wilderness he past,"Bacon, like Moses, led us forth at last,11821181118011791178l.ll.,l.,1177 was not disposed at that hour to persevere in the Motion with respect to the Law of Forgery, of which he had given notice, but that he felt it absolutely necessary to do so in order to the successful introduction of any Legislative measure which might have the chance of passing into a law during the present Session. In the course of the prosecution of the task he had undertaken,—namely, the Revision and Amendment of the Criminal Law— the crime of forgery had appeared to him to occupy a most important station in the list of offences, and to it he was now anxious to direct the attention of the Legislature. Before he stated the object he had in view in the amendment of the laws respecting forgery, he hoped the House would permit him to present them with a slight view of the existing laws on that subject, and the way in which they arrived at their present extent. Originally there was no statute law relating to forgery. Up to the time of queen Elizabeth the punishments for forgery were inflicted under the common law; and it was not until the fifth year of the reign of that Queen that a
11841183l.Saw it himself, and showed us it."'And from the mountain-top of his exalted wit,Of the blest Promised Land,Did on the very border standThe barren Wilderness he past,"Bacon, like Moses, led us forth at last,11821181118011791178l.ll.,l.,1177Mr. Secretary Peel
11861185 said, that though he could not but be disappointed at some parts of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, there was much in his statements which met with his cordial approbation. It was but justice to him to declare, that he had introduced very many, and very great improvements into our criminal law. The right hon. Gentleman had, in former years, swept away a multitude of capital enactments, in which the crime on the one hand, and the penalty on the other, were so utterly at variance, and in such monstrous disproportion, that those laws never
11861185Mr. Fowell Buxton
 also expressed the great satisfaction with which he had listened to' the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had not gone further. He did not, however, distrust the right hon. Gentleman, and therefore looked forward with hope to a future period when more would be done. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the difficulty of fixing on a secondary punishment as an obstacle in the way of abolishing the punishment of death. Now, although hard labour in the country might not be a fitting punishment, he did not see why hard labour in the West Indies, or other colonies, might not be so. In his opinion, the fear of it would operate more effectually to deter from the commission of crime than the fear of capital punishment. Among other things, the country was greatly indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for this, that he had relieved the question of the mitigation of the Penal Code from the odium of being considered a party question. He remembered the time when every proposition similar to that of the right hon. Gentleman was considered to be made in hostility to the Government and the laws. The right hon. Gentleman had the high credit of having destroyed all such prejudices.Mr. Lennard
 would not acknowledge any difference in the offences of forging Bank Notes and Bills of Exchange. Immense sums were employed in London in the discount of bills, and every protection ought to be given to them against forgery.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 thought, the country would be disappointed on learning that a greater mitigation, or rather the total abolition of the punishment of death, had not been proposed. He declared that were he a juryman, and had to give his verdict on a man who had been guilty of sheep-stealing, he would rather commit the minor crime of perjury, by giving a verdict contrary to his oath, than, by condemning the man, be accessory to what he considered nothing short of the crime of murder.Mr. Trant
 could not make up his mind to the total abolition of the punishment of death; but if such a measure were to be adopted, it should at all events be carried slowly into effect. He had, therefore, heard the right hon. Gentleman's statement with great satisfaction.Mr. Martin
 said, he should be sorry if the measure of his right hon. friend should be construed into a preliminary for abolishing the punishment of death. He believed great alarm would be excited in the country if it was understood that this was only a preparatory step to that measure. Whatever might be the opinions of enlightened persons, the country at large was not prepared for the abolition of capital punishments. If the measure was found to work well, then the House might go a little further.The Solicitor General
 was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman had gone as far as the state of feeling in the country would allow him.Mr. Benson
1166l.l.,l.1165 said, he should abstain at the present moment from giving any opinion on most of the subjects that had been brought before the House by the learned Lord; for, unlearned as he was in the laws of his country—he meant Scotland—he should like to be better acquainted with the opinions of professional men before he hazarded his own. He was capable, however, of forming an opinion of the Lord Advocate, and he begged to say that no one could doubt that the motives of that learned Lord were as pure and as honourable as his exertions were praiseworthy. At the same time he might observe, that he could hardly conceive of any form of case, in aid of which the trial by twelve jurymen as to points of fact, would not be most useful: he therefore thought that it was worthy the attention of the learned Lord to consider whether these trials should be confined to the presidency of two Judges only, as it could not be denied that many of the other Judges were quite competent to the task of presiding over a jury trial. With respect to the reduction of the Court of Admiralty, he thought that that might safely be accomplished, as the causes that came before that Court might as well be tried by the Sheriff or the Court of Session; and, indeed, with respect to maritime cases, it was much more fit that they should come before the last-mentioned Court. With respect to the alterations in the Ecclesiastical Court he was not so well satisfied, as he thought that two Judges ought to be left there in order to give them a jurisdiction. He did not think that the Judges of the Court of Session any more than the Judges of Westminster-hall, could try and determine ecclesiastical causes as well as men who had been trained in that particular department. He did not think that questions of marriage, divorce, and legitimacy, could be safely transferred to such Judges. He, for one, could not agree in the proposition laid down by the learned Lord, that they ought to check litigation by adding to the expense; and as long as
1166l.l.,l.1165Mr. Fergusson
 was understood also to approve of the measures, but to dissent from the objections which had been made to increasing the Judges' salary. He did not believe that the rent of land in Scotland had fallen 40-per-eent; and when ever the proposition to increase the Judges' salaries came before the House, he should give it his strenuous support. The salary ought to be raised so as to tempt men of the highest talents to accept the office, and enable them to subsist like gentlemen while they devoted their time to the public service. He was anxious to see public men well paid.Colonal Lindsay
honorary, said Mr. Hume was happy to find the system so good, that the hon. Member could find out nothing else to blame but that the Judges of Scotland mixed with other classes of society, and engaged in some other business. Among the employments to which the learned Member objected was the being appointed on the Commission to inquire into Academical Instruction; and he stated as an aggravated offence that they were the presidents of charitable Institutions, and the Managers of Infirmaries. All the fault he could find with them was, that they mixed with their fellow citizens. The hon. Gentle-man said, that English Judges did not do such things; but he had sent for the Red Book, and on opening it at the Lying-in-Hospital, he found that Mr. Justice Park and Mr. Justice Gazelee were Vice-Presidents [honorary, said Mr. HumeMr. Secretary Peel
 resumed; the hon. Gentleman charged the Scotch Judges with addicting themselves to secular employments, and instituted comparisons between them and the English Judges, unfavourable to the former, and then he sought to aggravate the charge by saying that the English Judges went a length the Scotch Judges had never been known to go. If that were really and seriously brought as a charge, and sustained in the manner which he had just described, he must be allowed to say that his experience afforded but few parallels to such a mode of parliamentary discussion. It was indeed new to him to hear it brought as matter of accusation against judicial persons, that they were found mixing in deeds of charity with their fellow-citizens at large. The case of the English Judges, to which he had adverted, was certainly such as lay open to no reasonable objection; and he was quite satisfied that the hon. Member for Westminster, who sat opposite, could bear testimony to the benefits which their interference conferred upon the charities with which they were connected. It happened that in Scotland some of them had been appointed Commissioners for the purpose of inquiring into the state of Academical Education, and he should gladly learn what there was in the judicial office to unfit them for such a situation; and he might be allowed to add, that they deserved great credit for the willingness with which they undertook those duties, and the efficiency with which they discharged them. As to the immediate object of the present Motion, he should reserve to himself the right of addressing the House on it at some future occasion —possibly when it came to be discussed in the Committee. As he had a Motion of his own to bring on that night, he might be excused from then saying more.Mr. Peel
l.l., certainly thought it not fair that Scotch Judges should be kept at a salary of 2,500l.l.,Sir C. Forbes
11681167 said, he could not give a silent vote on that occasion; the measures now brought forward were so much in accordance with those he had recommended last session, that he should give them his cordial support. It gave him great satisfaction to see those measures introduced; and he thought they reflected the highest credit on his hon. and learned friend and the right hon. Secretary of State. They could not justly be charged with being rash innovations, for almost all of them had been under discussion for half a century. Upwards of forty years ago the three points of dividing the Court of Session, of introducing into it trial by jury, and reducing the number of Judges, had been recommended in a very able pamphlet, by a Judge of that Court, the late Lord Swinton, than whom no man ever wrote from a more sincere desire to discover the truth, or more uninfluenced by every other consideration than the public good. The measures introduced by his hon. and learned friend, however, had met with so much approbation in the House, that he did not think it necessary to enter into any arguments to enforce their claims to
11681167Mr. Home Drummond
l.l.l.11701169 was also anxious to see public men well paid, but he was afraid that
l.l.l.11701169Mr. Hume
1172, in explanation, said, that he did not find fault with the manner in which the right hon. Secretary had treated his argument, seeing that he was himself much in the habit of treating the reasonings of his own opponents with quite as little ceremony; but he hoped the House would allow him to re-state his argument in a manner that would protect it from the attack of the right hon. Gentleman. He instanced the way in which the Scotch Judges spent their leisure as a proof that they had too much idle time on their hands—or if not too much, that they had
1172Mr. Hume
 said, he could show that they went farther; some of them might be found amongst the Members of Select Vestries.Mr. Hume
1164l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,11631162l.1161l. said, unless the effect of the present measure were to produce a considerable improvement and reduction in the judicial establishments of Scotland, he should be the last man to concur in its adoption. But he thought it would be beneficial as far as it went, and felt grateful for it. He fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Baronet on the subject of Fees: he himself had received communications, stating that the middle classes in Scotland wore frequently deterred from applying for justice in consequence of the enormous amount of fees. The salaries to clerks derived from fees amounted to 24,0001164l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,11631162l.1161l.Sir G. Warrender
cheers11601159l.l.l.1158l.l.11571156 said, although he could not but regret the delay that had taken place since notice was first given for the introduction of this bill—a delay that could not but be inconvenient to the Lord Advocate himself, and to all the Members connected with Scotland, as
cheers11601159l.l.l.1158l.l.11571156Sir Michael Shaw Stewart
 brought up the Report of the Committee on this Bill; and moved that it be re-committed.Lord Lowther
 said, that he intended to oppose the measure, because it would be injurious to many of his constituents occupying houses in the Haymarket. It would remove the market so far from its present site as to be a great inconvenience. With respect to those who complained of it as a nuisance, it should be remembered that they came to the nuisance, and not the nuisance to them. He had no objection to the noble Lord establishing another market in the spot he had selected, but he begged of him to allow the old one to remain.Mr. Byng
 said, that there could be no question that the Market, as now situated, was a nuisance; and in moving it they were only following the example of other towns. Not above half-a-dozen persons would be affected by it. It was true that the inhabitants had come to the nuisance, but at the same time, within the last few years, the nuisance had greatly increased. The distance to which he proposed to remove the market was not great, as it was only on the other side of the New Road, and consequently equally convenient for the West end of the town.Lord Lowther
1210l said, that in consequence of what had passed in the House on the previous evening, a meeting of the Parishioners had been held this morning, and a Petition against the Saint Giles's and Saint George's Vestry Bill was immediately agreed to. It was signed by upwards of one thousand inhabitants, with their names and addresses, so as to bear the closest scrutiny. The Petition entreated the House, that if they persisted in disfranchising 1,856 of the inhabitants, they would, at least, not allow a gradation of voting, the consequence of which would be—giving to 400 of the higher ratepayers the same powers as those possessed by 1,600 of the lower rate-payers. The petitioners also stated, that if Parliament would consent to lower the rate one-half, so as to give a vote to those who were rated at 151210lMr. Hobhouse
 observed, that his only wish was the restoration of the harmony and good feeling of the parish. When he had stated that nine of the parishioners had relaxed in their opposition, he had founded what he said on what he had observed in the Committee up stairs; and he certainly had, on the occasion to which he alluded, understood that several gentlemen, when the rate entitling parishioners to a right of vote was reduced to 30/. had withdrawn that opposition which they had formerly entertained towards the measure.Mr. Ward
l1211 had kept himself free from all parties in this question, though he lived in the parish, in order that he might be able, in the House and in the Committee, to give an unbiassed vote. His feeling, however, was, that these parishioners had a right to what they asked; because he should ever contend, that every man had a right to vote what should be done with his own money. This was the very spirit of the Constitution, and they were bound to support it as long as they
l1211Mr. Alderman Waithman
 moved the third reading of the Bill.Lord John Russell
ll1212l.;llllbonâ fide would at that eleventh hour endeavour to have a Bill, so objectionable in its nature, if not re-committed, rejected by the House. The Petition which had been the result of the meeting held that morning, and which had been signed, as his hon. friend had stated, by upwards of 1,000 respectable ll1212l.;llllbonâ fideMr. Hume
 said, that course could not now be adopted. There were three modes of proceeding open to the House. Either the third reading might be negatived; or the third reading might be postponed to that day six months; or an Amendment of any clauses might be proposed, but that must be after the Bill had been read a third time.The Speaker
1213 observed, that his only reason for having anything to do with this Bill was in the hopes of restoring the peace and quiet of the parish That was the only interest either he or his family could have in the matter. In the commencement he had been anxious to have nothing at all to do with the Bill; but it was stated to him that his undertaking it would open the chance of a reconciliation between the parties, and he therefore thought that it would have been wrong in him to refuse. He had, therefore, undertaken it; but on this understanding, that he would not be bound by the principles of the Bill. AH the differences between the parties were settled before the Bill came under the consideration of the committee, and those three points were laid before the committee for their decision. He himself abstained from giving any opinion on the subject, and only laid the facts before them. The committee decided in favour of the principle as it stood in the Bill, and against that contained in Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act. That that so happened was the fault of those hon. Gentlemen who did not attend in the committee, and now came down to the House to complain of the step that had been taken. By the decision of that committee (all the petitions having been investigated by it) he felt bound, though, perhaps, it was not exactly what he himself
1213Lord J. Russell
 thought it was desirable that the House should assent to the Amendment of his hon. friend, and give all the parties an opportunity of coming to an understanding with each other. He disapproved of the Bill, and thought it would have been better to abide by the principles of Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act.Sir F. Burdett
 opposed any further delay. Sufficient concessions had already been made in the committee, and further delay would only increase the disagreement of the parties. There was no chance of their agreeing together, and therefore he hoped the House would at once decide the question. The Bill as it then stood was a very fair measure.Sir Thomas Fremantle
 declared that it was his intention to vote for the postponement. It was very desirable that some uniformity should be introduced into the proceedings of that House in relation to the parishes of London. Last year they had passed a bill for St. Paul's, Covent-garden, with one qualification, and now they were going to pass one for St. Giles's with another qualification. The House was bound to look that its enactments conformed to each other, and he should vote for delay, with a view to making this. Bill like other bills.Mr. Baring
ll remarked, that in St. Paul's, Covent-garden, already one principle prevailed; in St. Andrew's, Holbom, another; and in St. Anne's a third; so that it was impossible for the House to introduce a uniformity of enactment into the several parishes; if any hon. Member would move to substitute 20llColonel Davies
 hoped the Bill would be postponed till after the Easter holidays. The concession spoken of by the hon. Baronet opposite was only on one point. There were four points in dispute, and one only had been conceded to those who opposed the Bill; and that was the least important, viz.—that the election of the vestry should be annual, instead of biennial. If the Bill were not postponed till after the Easter holidays, he should feel it to be his duty to vote against the Bill altogether.Mr. Byng
 supported the Amendment.Lord Nugent
 said, he did not know what was meant by concession; but the Bill, as it then stood, contained one of the most monstrous propositions he ever remembered. Almost 2,000 persons were disfranchised by it, and 400 individuals were to have as many votes as 3,000. He hoped the Bill would be postponed.Mr. Tennyson
ll denied, as it was only a question of degree, that the principle of disfranchisement was at issue; at the same time, as he wished to see the House unanimous, and all parties satisfied, he should like to see 20llMr. Bramston
l next proposed, as an Amendment, that every person rated at the sum of 25lMr. Hume
 stated, that from the manner in which the Amendment was worded, the effect would be, that no person could possess more than one vote.The Speaker
ll said, that the friends of the Bill had reduced the qualification for a vote from 30llLord John Russel
 declared he had not heard of any such agreement as that alluded to by the noble Lord.Mr. Hume
 thought it would be extreme injustice to the parties concerned, to postpone the third reading until after the holidays; but he suggested that it should take place on a later day than Monday next—namely, on the following Wednesday or Thursday.Mr. S. Rice
1222 said, I have listened with attention to the statement of the hon. Gentleman who presented the Petition, and I can affirm, from my own knowledge, that the distress of the Shipping-interest is by no means exaggerated. The Shipowners were the first interest to experience that distress which has since unfortunately pervaded all classes: they have suffered long, and most severely. The evidence of this may be found in the present indifferent construction and parsimonious equipment of those vessels, which formerly stood preeminent in the commercial marine of the world. I remember the time when a British ship was insured at half the premium asked upon the foreigner. Now, from the causes I have stated, a foreign vessel is often preferred to the British. Notwithstanding this, I am afraid that it is not possible to grant effectual relief by legislative measures. In my judgment, the distress is to be ascribed to the natural approximation to the low prices and profits of foreign nations, which has arisen from the free intercourse since the peace. It is well known that the price which our surplus commodities command in the foreign market regulates the price at home. We have more shipping than we can employ in our coasting and colonial trades (which are, in fact, our home market as regards shipping.) The surplus ships seek employment in foreign trades, where they must of necessity navigate upon terms as low as foreign ships. These low freights bring down the freight of British ships at home
1222Mr. Marryat
 supported the petition, and expressed his concurrence with what had fallen from the hon. Member who had presented it. He hoped that the President of the Board of Trade would take the subject into his consideration with a view of affording relief.Mr. Alderman Waithman
12301229 thought, that the House would have been more surprised if he had entered into a discussion like the present, containing such various topics, and embracing so wide a field, on the presentation of a petition, than it now was on hearing the hon. member for Aberdeen taunting him for his silence. Had it not been for the appeal made to him by the hon. member for Montrose, he should not have risen for one moment to address the House on the present occasion. It was to vindicate himself from the possible imputation of any want of respect to the hon. member for Hull, who had presented this petition, and
12301229Mr. Herries
1233, in reply, stated that he had spoken of the increase in the amount of our tonnage from returns made up to the latest period. He had stated that the amount of British tonnage entering inwards and clearing outwards for the last four years was superior to the amount for the four years immediately preceding the year in which we made the alterations in our commercial system; and he now said, that the amount of men, tonnage and ships entering inwards and clearing outwards, during the last year, was greater than ever it was at any former period. Take the amount, for instance, for the years 1828 and 1829. In 1828, hte number of ships entering inwards was 13,436, their tonnage was 2,094,357, and the number of men employed was 119,141. In 1829 the number of ships entering inwards was 13,659, their tonnage was 2,184,535, and the number of men employed was 122,185. Thus the difference in favour of the year 1829, for ships entering inwards, was, in ships, 223, in tonnage 90,178, and in men 3,044. In 1828, the number of ships clearing outwards was 12,248, their tonnage was 2,006,397, and the number of men employed was 119,143. In 1829 the corresponding numbers were—ships 12,636, tonnage, 2,063,179, men, 119, 262. Thus the difference in favour of the year 1829, for ships clearing outwards, was, in ships 388, in tonnage 56,782, and in men 119-Surely this would satisfy the hon. Member for Worcester. He had also spoken of the comparative average amount of ships, tonnage, and men entering inwards and clear-
1233Mr. Herries
 moved that the House, at its rising, do adjourn till Monday next.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
123712361235 said, that he would take the present opportunity of putting a question to his Majesty's Ministers with respect to the Foreign Relations of the Country. In his Majesty's Speech from the Throne, at the meeting of Parliament in the present Session, the House had been informed that certain things were pending with reference to Greece, and that when the arrangements were complete, Parliament would be duly informed of the fact, and that the papers connected with those arrangements would be laid before the House. Nothing of the sort had as yet been done. Since this declaration, a speech of the King of France had appeared in all the public Newspapers, in which his Most Christian Majesty informs his two chambers, that the negotiation with respect to Greece had come to a close, and that a Prince had been chosen by the common consent and agreement of the Allied Powers to preside over the destinies of Greece. Although the Prince was not named in his Most Christian Majesty's speech, it was perfectly understood by every body that the allusion was to his Royal Highness Prince Leopold—and he was sure, that a choice more perfectly calculated to ensure the future happiness of Greece, and to establish permanently her pacific connexion with the rest of Europe, could not be made. But this announcement on the part of the King of France to the Chamber made him anxious to inquire of the right hon. Gentle
123712361235Lord J. Russell
cheers1238 said, he could assure the noble Lord that his Majesty's Ministers were anxious to produce the papers which related to the negotiations regarding the future condition of Greece at as early a period as they could, consistently with that which must be the leading object of all statesmen—the permanent interests of this kingdom, and those likewise of that country in whose affairs we had been induced to interfere. He had the satisfaction of stating that the parties who signed the Treaty of the 6th of July, 1827, had conic to a resolution respecting the government of Greece, and the relations it was to hold with other powers; and he had also the satisfaction to say, that they were in perfect accord as to the Prince to whom the Sovereignty of that country was to be committed. On these main points, the future government of Greece, its future condition (which, he was happy to declare, was to be one of unqualified independence), and lastly, the selection of the Prince who was to preside over its destinies—on all these great points there was the most complete concord, and the most perfect unanimity between the Allied Powers who had signed the Treaty of the 6th of July. That concord had existed from the beginning, and up to this moment was uninterrupted. But there were some points of a subordinate nature, on which negotiations were still pending, and until they were brought to an end, the noble Lord himself must concur with him that it would not be for the public interest to produce the papers; he was sure, however, that at no distant moment, he should receive the commands of his Majesty to lay them before the House. He was also sure that this would be done at the earliest possible time consistent with the interests of England, and the permanent welfare of Greece. The noble Lord had stated that he approved of the domestic policy pursued by the Administration, but that he viewed the foreign policy with some suspicion and distrust. Now, he could not help thinking that the distinction arose from the circumstance that there was not the same opportunity of giving that immediate explanation respecting the course
cheers1238Mr. Secretary Peel
 asked if the negotiations then pending related to the affairs of Greece, or to those of the Ottoman Porte?Lord J. Russell
 stated, that they were negotiations between the three Allied Powers on the one hand, and the Prince designated as Sovereign of the country on the other. The right hon. Gentleman, after a short pause, gave a further explanation of what, he said, was a very important point which he had inadvertently omitted, in replying to the questions of the noble Lord. He was unwilling to leave it in that degree of uncertainty which might seem to warrant the correctness of the noble Lord's opinion. The noble Lord said, that from something which had passed in that House, he had been led to understand that in August last we were upon the verge of a war, in order to protect Turkey from the attacks of Russia. Now he could not acquiesce in the correctness of the noble Lord's inference. He was not aware that the country was on the verge of war at the period alluded to, and still less for the purpose of protecting Turkey or Constantinople from the Russians.Mr. Secretary Peel
1239 said, that he had been led to this opinion in consequence of what
1239Lord J. Russell
 answered, No.Mr. Herries
 said that he had stated that applications had been made to increase the establishment of the Naval Hospital at Malta beyond its amount, when there were only six thousand men in the Mediterranean, because circumstances had induced Government to raise that force to eight thousand men, and such being the case, they necessarily required a more extensive establishment, and an augmentation was made in the Naval Hospital.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1241 having moved the Order of the Day for receiving the Report of the Committee,
1241The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 flattered himself that he could give a satisfactory answer to the hon. Member's question. On the night of the Budget he had intimated that it was the intention of Government to have two commissions—one to inquire into our colonial expenditure, the other to investigate the collection of the revenue. The commissioners would shortly commence their labours, and he had no doubt that before the period mentioned by the hon. Member, they would have advanced so far as to be enabled to lay some information on the subject before the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l then brought up the Report of 100,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the vote for Civil Contingencies was merely on account. As to the course he intended to pursue, he proposed first to go on with the Ordnance Estimates; then the Army Extra ordinaries; and lastly, the Miscellaneous and Irish Estimates, in the usual course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the object was, to finish the Ordnance Estimates before Easter. He hoped to get through them to-night, or at furthest on Monday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l observed, that there was a clause in the bill imposing a penalty of 500lMr. Jephson
 was reluctantly compelled to press his Motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l proposed that 8,933lMr. Perceval
llll1244llllllllll said, he rose to offer a few observations which could no longer be of any use, since the vote upon which he proposed to touch had been already agreed to. The thrice-told tale about the Ordnance had now become very stale indeed; and from the recent vote, which decided upon the continuance of an unnecessary office, it was perfectly obvious that no reduction in this department was to be expected. He was now fighting in a cause altogether desperate; still he would trouble the House with a few words. There was one extraordinary thing to which he desired to call their attention. The expenses of the Ordnance Establishment, in 1796, were only 18,700llll1244llllllllllMr. Hume
ll1245 observed, that the speech of the hon. Member appeared to be entirely directed to the vote that had been carried the other night; and he thought that the hon. Gentleman must candidly admit that he had made but a rambling statement, from beginning to end. He therefore trusted that he should be excused if he did not follow him accurately and convincingly through every portion of it. The hon. Gentleman had compared the present state of the Ordnance with that of 17.96; but he must be aware that since that period an immense increase of business had been imposed upon the department. That was a ground, therefore, on which censure could not, with justice, be founded. The duty at the present time was increased,—it was trebled; and he would ask, could those who were at the head of the department prevent it from being so increased? The whole subject had been gone into with great detail by his right hon. friend (Sir H. Hardinge) in his evidence before the Finance Committee; and the expressed opinion of his right hon. friend was, that in reality a great saving had been effected. The hon. Member had compared the establishment of the Ordnance with that of the Navy; but he seemed to have forgotten that the former department, in many respects, had much to do on account of the Navy department; all which ought to be taken into consideration. The whole of the Colonial business, as far as garrisons and artillery were concerned in particular, had been thrown on the Ordnance department since the year 1823. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the duties of the chief clerk in the office of the Surveyor-general. That individual had been in the service for fifty years; his exertions had been most meritorious; his salary was not more than commensurate to his labours; and on his retirement, his allowance would
ll1245Mr. Perceval
ll remarked, that in the Estimates there were four clerks at 550llMr. Poulett Thomson
 said, he wished to know whether there was any estimate of the expense that would be incurred by removing the clerks to Pall-mall; for at present the question appeared to be one of expense only? The right hon. Gentleman, in his evidence before the Finance Committee, seemed to favour the supposition that the removal itself would be expedient. He was also of opinion, that the business might be done at a less expense.Mr. Lennard
1246 said, there was no reason whatever—notwithstanding the assertions of hon. Members opposite, who seemed to think that these two offices possessed some repelling power—why they should be kept separate. A removal as to the Store-department had already taken place; then why not in this case also. It was in every respect improper, that two establishments, which related to the same department, and ought to be under one roof, were thus divided, Letters were continually sent to and fix because the two parts were separate. The Finance Committee, in looking at this question, had proceeded on principle; for what
1246Mr. Maberly
 said, he was unwilling to trouble the House, but he was obliged to do so by the observations of the hon. member for Dover, relative to the clerks in the Surveyor-general's office. Looking to the various duties which were to be performed, forty-seven clerks were not too much; and he could assure the House that all of them were occupied. It had been said, on a previous evening, that the only business of the Ordnance was to superintend the cutting of jackets and the contracts for pipe-clay: with respect to his own department, he begged to say that the duties were much more serious and important. The details of business connected with the barrack department were very numerous. He had to examine accounts of almost all business which could be named, and even of much which could not be named in that place. With respect to the enormous amount of salaries, all he could say was, that the gentleman to whom allusion had been made had been in the service for more than fifty years, and had always shown himself a most meritorious officer.Sir Henry Fane
1247 said, there were many general officers who had served equally long, and who did not receive a third of the pay; therefore either the one was over-rated, or the other under-rated. At the same time he was bound to say, that no department could be in better order; and as to the individual, he appeared to be as fit as possible; and if the union and consolidation which he had introduced had been adopted by the Board, he thought that the whole department would now have been in much better order. As regarded the barracks, two good clerks were sufficient to do the work, for all
1247Mr. Hume
 answered, that in his department all the clerks were at the Tower. He could assure the Committee that it would be a convenience to every member of the Board to have all the clerk brought together; but the question of expense had been looked to. The offices at the Tower were admirably suited to the purposes required; the Secretary of the hoard was the only officer that had a residence.Sir Henry Fane
, would recommend then that all the gentlemen should be sent to the Tower. If the Tower could not he brought to Pall-mall, then Pall-mall must be sent to the Tower.Mr. Hume
lll observed, that according to the calculation, there would be an expense of l,560lllMr. Perceval
ll1248llll said, it was his intention, not having understood that the votes on the salaries of several clerks had been passed, to have divided the House on almost every one of them. He thought, in the present state of things, and looking to the great and growing distress of the time, that these clerks were too well paid, when their remuneration was compared with that of the really hard-working classes of society. Therefore it was his wish to divide the House on these votes. There was no less than 44, 138ll1248llllColonel Sibthorp
ll thought, that the salary of 1,100llSir H. Hardinge
 had not intended to question the respectability or abilities of these gentlemen; but he thought that the state of the country called for reduction.Colonel Sibthorp
 said, he could bear testimony to the merits of those individuals. There never was a more admirable or efficient body of public servants. He contended also that the offices at the Tower and at Pall-mall could not be dispensed with.Colonel Trench
 wished to see the salaries of the principal officers reduced, and not that of the clerks, who did all the duty. He regretted that the office at Pall-mall was not yet abolished.Mr. Lennard
 thought the discussion quite superfluous, as the vote for those offices was passed.Sir H. Hardinge
1249 was of opinion that the subject was yet open to discussion. There was not sufficient business to employ both the offices at Pall-mall and at the Tower, and they ought to be consolidated. With very little trouble the house at Pall-mall might be made to contain all the Ordnance offices. The real reason why neither of these establishments was done away with was, that the gentlemen at the Tower would not go to the office at Pall-mall, and the gentlemen at Pall-mall would not go to the Tower. He hoped another year would not pass without one or other of them being compelled to change their residence. As to Mr. Angell he was quite ready to bear his testimony to the efficiency and value of that
1249Mr. Maberly
llll having been in the Ordnance, and having still the misfortune to hold office (though this might make him a suspected witness in the estimation of the hon. member for Cumberland), felt himself called on to give his opinion. He admitted, that if they had then to form the offices in question, they might be conveniently consolidated; but at present there were two buildings for the two offices, neither of which would be sufficient for both. It would not be possible to collect all the members of both these offices either at the Tower or at Pall-mall, without erecting additional buildings. If the office were to be removed to the Tower, the whole of that must be remodelled to provide convenient offices; and what would the hon. member for Aberdeen say, if the Ministers were to ask for a sum of 30 or 40,000llllSir G. Clerk
l1250 was willing to drop that subject, though he had heard no reason why the two offices should not be consolidated; but he should like to know if the sum of
l1250Mr. Hume
 was as anxious as any man to reduce the salaries of officers, but he must hear some more convincing arguments than had been urged by the Gentlemen opposite, before he could vote with them. Sometimes they complained of the salaries of the inferior clerks being reduced too low, and now they say they are too high: when those hon. Gentlemen became consistent they might perhaps command his vote.Colonel Peel
l was not aware of the inconsistency alluded to by the hon. member for Norwich, though he must admit that it would be very inconsistent in him ever to expect that hon. Member to vote with him. Passing by the hon. Member and his observations, however, he wished to know if 14,000lMr. Hume
 could not hold out any hope of reduction in that particular. The salaries of the officers were fixed a few years ago; the office could not be dispensed with, the whole of the barracks and ordnance stores of Ireland being placed in charge of the office at Dublin. It had also a continued correspondence with the chief office in London. Unless the hon. Member were to sweep barracks and all the establishments for the army out of existence, he could not sec how these various offices of inspection and account could be dispensed with.Mr. Perceval
 wished also to inquire, if the office of Inspector of the manufacture of gunpowder at Feversham was to be continued. He admitted that gunpowder must be had, but he doubted the utility of the means the Government employed to procure it. The inspector had a house at Feversham, the manufacture was at Waltham Abbey, the office of accounts was at Pall-mall, and the store was at the Tower. Were these the ingredients for manufacturing gunpowder?Mr. Hume
 could give the hon. Member a satisfactory answer on this point; the office was to be done away, and arrangements to carry that into effect were in progress.Mr. Perceval
 objected, on account of it being extremely inconvenient to vote all the items included under that sum together.Mr. Hume
l said, that the items were all set forth in the Estimates. The expense for the stations at home and abroad were kept distinct, and the total of all the stations was the sum of 87,464lMr. Perceval
 was aware of that, but the arrangement was inconvenient, because some Members objected to one item and some to another, and either they were compelled to forego all opposition or to vote against the whole sum, which many did not like to do. In his opinion the votes for the home and for the foreign stations should be taken separately.Mr. Hume
 reminded the hon. Member that the present Estimates only differed from those of former years by the expense for the Irish barrack-masters having been brought under the head of Ordnance-stations. The home and foreign stations had always been placed together.Mr. Perceval
llll gave the hon. Gentleman credit for the best intentions, but he must call his attention to the inconvenience of the arrangement. The vote was for 87,464llllSir John Wrottesley
 said, that the change had been made in the Estimates, he believed, at the suggestion of the hon. member for Callington, and in obedience to what was understood to be the wish of Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House.Sir Henry Hardinge
 had no objection to divide the votes to suit the convenience of hon. Members.Mr. Perceval
 was of opinion, that the Ordnance stations should be separated from the Barrack-masters' expenses.Mr. Maberly
 suggested that the hon. Member should move for a vote for each item as it was placed in the Estimate.Mr. Hume
l thought, that the vote was open to all the objections which had already been made to the other, and he should move as an Amendment, to substitute for this the sum of 17,430lMr. Hume
ll12541253lll.;lssd said, that was probably the most convenient time for him to bring a subject under the notice of the Committee, on which he had previously presented a Petition from the town of Birmingham. He wished first to express his opinion, that the plan of manufacturing arms by the Government was an injudicious one. It was a sound principle of political writers that a Government should not undertake to manufacture for itself. It never could hope to inspire its servants who were paid by a salary, with that zeal and exertion which were dictated by individual interest; and, therefore, it was at all times better that it should buy what it wanted than attempt to make it. An example of the consequence of acting on the opposite principle had lately fallen under his notice: 10,000 musket stocks, of the manufacture of the Government, had lately been sold for 5½ll12541253lll.;lssdMr. Lawley
1256dssldslldsdss1255 wished to explain, as far as he could, the principle upon which the
1256dssldslldsdss1255Mr. Perceval
ddd.;ds hoped the Committee would support the Amendment, and thereby express its reprobation of the erroneous, and unjustifiable, and extravagant policy pursued by the Government, with respect to the supply of an article which should be left to the free competition of skill and capital. He admitted the general merit of the Ordnance Department, but in this instance he thought it acted on improper principles. This was confirmed by an admission made before the Finance Committee, that during the war we had been obliged to bring arms from abroad. When the hon. member, the Secretary to the Ordnance, attempted to justify his policy by the fact that the price of arms had fallen since 1812, the date of the Government establishment at Enfield, he seemed to forget the far greater fall of prices which had taken place within the same period in all kinds of manufactures and articles of commerce. Had the supply of arms been, as it ought to be, left to competition, their price would be much lower, and the public be considerably a gainer. This would appear the more manifest if the price of commodities now, as compared with that in 1790, be considered. Bolt-locks, to take one manufacture in the iron trade for an example, which sold in 1790 for 2ddd.;dsMr. Littleton
 admitted the great general reduction of price mentioned by the hon. Member, but the fall in the price of gun-barrels was so coincident with the establishment of the Government manufacture, it taking place very shortly before 1812, that he could have no doubt that it ought to be attributed to that establishment. The Government reduced the prices of the contractors by proving to them that it could manufacture cheaper than they charged.Mr. Perceval
 thought the hon. member for Warwickshire had made out a case which demanded the support of the Committee. He saw no reason why the Government should keep up its establishments at Enfield and Lewisham, to the injury of the good understanding between the Government and the manufacturers. The trade at Birmingham in this branch had been very dull since 1815, and when there was a little improvement in 1818, the Order of Council, prohibiting the exportation of arms, interposed and put a stop to it. He was of opinion that the Government could always buy cheaper than it could make, and therefore he should certainly vote for the Amendment.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that Government would always find it better to depend on public competition for what they wanted than to manufacture on their own account. This vote, therefore, concerned a great principle in the management of public affairs. He was fully persuaded that such establishments as those at Enfield and Lewisham,—if all they cost were laid before the public—would be found very expensive. He should like to see the real outgoings of such establishments compared to the value of the work performed at them, and he believed, if such accounts were laid before the House, of all the articles manufactured by the Government, it would be found that they cost five, six, or even some of them twenty times as much as they could be bought for ready made. The Government establishments had their store-keepers, their chapels, their chaplains, their surgeons, their inspectors and sub-inspectors, all of whom had retiring allowances, and ought to be included in the cost of the manufacture. From these charges the private manufacturer was quite exempt, and to him, therefore, it seemed beyond all doubt a most unwise policy in the Government to be a manufacturer.Mr. Maberly
1258 entirely concurred in the opinion of his hon. friend. He was persuaded that the Government establishments
1258Mr. Whitmore
l said, there were only four articles manufactured by the Government, and these chiefly with a view of putting down that competition which, during the war, had raised prices upon the Treasury. It had a manufactory of small-arms, by which it had reduced the price of that article very much. It manufactured gunpowder, and had saved by that, 300,000lSir H. Hardinge
s1259 said, that this plan of preventing combination would be ineffectual, as on a sudden emergency of war, the workmen would themselves combine against their employers in these Government factories. The observations made on the prices of articles, as compared with the prices in 1812, must be fallacious, because that price was altogether an artificial one. Nothing was better proved by experience than the fact that the Government could not manufacture as cheaply as it could buy. Besides, Government manufactures discouraged trade, and damped the ardour of enterprise in individuals. By the latest version which had been given of the utility of the manufactory at Enfield, it seemed to be kept up in order to shorten soldiers old muskets for the use of the Navy. Now this was, in his opinion, an idle recommendation of that establishment, for water-carriage cost so little that these muskets might be sent to Birmingham for a mere trifle. Prices there
s1259Sir J. Wrottesley
 stated, that he already had had a conference with the Duke of Wellington, in company with a deputation from the gun-makers, but no benefit had resulted from it; and he was afraid that none would result from any appeal to the Government as long as it held to the opinion that it was able to manufacture cheaper than individuals.Mr. Lawley
 did not contend that the Government could manufacture cheaper than individuals; but at a cheaper rate than they charged the Government. The establishments were useful, therefore, in keeping down the prices of the private manufacturers. As to sending muskets to be repaired at Birmingham, the expense of carriage would be more than the expense of cutting them down.Mr. Perceval
 did not support this Amendment out of any regard to a particular place; but on the broad principle that the Government ought to buy at the cheapest market. He did not object to these establishments that they were merely useless; but they entailed an endless expense for retiring allowances, and superannuations for clerks, and quartered an army of assistants and supernumeraries on the public.Mr. Hume
s1260s was in favour of Government keeping the manufacture of arms under its own eye. He had seen, while in the field, quantities of arms made at Birmingham rejected as useless. The soldier too was obliged to keep his arms in order after he received them, and he had known a private put to the expense of 10s1260sSir Ronald Ferguson
l thought it was more likely that the arms the gallant General had seen rejected had been manufactured at En-field than at Birmingham. He should like to see the vouchers for the 98,000lMr. Attwood
.—That was effected by reducing the price, and bringing about an alteration in the mode of making the contracts.Mr. Perceval
.—That saving was made by expending about half a million of capital, raised by taxes on the people, so that the people paid to enable the Government to compete with themselves, and drive down their proper rewards; they derived no benefit from the Government plan.Mr. Attwood
 explained, that at the period he alluded to, muskets were not manufactured at Enfield, and those he spoke of had the Birmingham mark.Sir Ronald Ferguson
 admitted, that at the breaking out of the war the manufacturers of Birmingham were not so expert as they afterwards became.Mr. Attwood
 also observed, that since the period the hon. and gallant General alluded to, a proof-house had been established at Birmingham, and the whole manufacture was as well carried on as possible.Mr. Littleton
 inquired whether the offices of Naval and Ordnance storekeepers in the neighbourhood of Cork might not be consolidated. There was one at Cove, and another at Ballyncollig, ten miles from Cork, and one, he thought, might be spared.Mr. Jephson
 replied, that such a consolidation would be impossible, as the duties of the respective offices were essentially different. One belonged to the Naval department, and the other to the Ordnance.Mr. Perceval
1261 saw no reason why stores of
1261Mr. Hume
 denied that the Finance Committee had come to any definitive resolution on the subject, though he knew that the Committee adopted consolidation as a principle, and recommended it generally. Both the Duke of Wellington and himself had explained before that Committee, that the charge of the Ordnance and the Naval Stores at the same station could not be placed under the same person. The Ordnance and the Barrack departments had been consolidated, but it would be impossible to have the Naval and Ordnance stores, at Cork for example, under the same management. The question had been discussed at great length in the Finance Committee; consolidation had been carried into effect as far as possible, and he saw no utility in renewing the discussion at that time.Sir H. Hardinge
 admitted that the Finance Committee had not come to any resolution on the subject, but he reminded the gallant officer, that it recommended the reductions of stations generally. For his own part he saw no reason why the Ordnance and Naval stores might not be placed under the care of one person, and if the gallant Admiral would confer with the gallant General, if the Ordnance would give up its patronage in one place, and the Admiralty its patronage in another, he had no doubt a great many useless places might be done away, and a great saving effected.Mr. Maberly
 thought, in opposition to the gallant General, that the Committee of that House was the proper time and place to discuss the subject. There was a storekeeper at Cork, another at Cove, and a third at Ballyncollig, four miles from Cork, and he should like to know why the stores at these three places might not be taken charge of by the same person, even supposing that it would not be convenient to have them collected on the same spot.Mr. Robert Gordon
 did not mean to imply that a Committee of Supply could not discuss the question, but to state, that as it had been discussed in the Finance Committee, and as there were great doubts how far the Ordnance Department could take charge of stores for the Navy, he did not suppose the Committee of Supply could discuss it with advantage. As to the three storekeepers mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, there were large buildings at Ballyncollig, which required the care of a responsible person. Cork was an important station, whence troops were embarked for the West Indies, and being four miles distant from Ballyncollig, required a storekeeper and other officers. Again, Cove was eight miles from Cork, and these stores were kept for the men-of-war which frequented that port. If Ballyncollig could be moved to Cork, and Cork carried down to Cove, one storekeeper might serve, but while there were stores and buildings at the three places to be taken care of, he did not see how that could be done by one person. He would only further observe, that by the evidence given before the Finance Committee, it appeared that the number of storekeepers in 1828 only exceeded by three the number in 1792.Sir Henry Hardinge
 observed, that the Finance Committee being informed that there were ninety-eight stations came to this resolution, "That the number of stations appears great, but this Committee is not competent to give an opinion how far any of them can be reduced; they therefore recommend the Ordnance Department to institute an inquiry, in order to see what reductions can be made." He wished to know, whether or not that recommendation had been attended to.Mr. Hume
 said, two deputy storekeepers had been reduced, and the work of reduction was going on.Mr. Perceval
llll1263 would next remind the Ordnance Department, that Enfield and Waltham Abbey were close to each other, and yet there were separate storekeepers,
llll1263Mr. Hume
 explained, that the individual who was storekeeper at Waltham Abbey was, for many years, at Ballyncollig, and had a right to some situation. He was a gentleman of great merit, and yet he would not undertake by himself to be wholly responsible for the works at Waltham Abbey. His services were valuable, but if he retired he would be entitled to the whole of his salary. The storekeeper of Enfield certainly lived at Waltham Abbey, but he did not sec any difference which that made, when his services were necessary, as he could assure the hon. Member they were, to that establishment.Mr. Perceval
 repeated his statement, that reductions ought to be made, but as he would, above all things, avoid granting superannuations, he would not press for them.Mr. Hume
 wished to know, from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether his Majesty's Government had come to any determination relative to a point which had excited much interest among persons engaged in the brewing trade, and upon which several memorials had been presented to the Government,—namely, the ad vantage which would arise to the publicans if they were permitted to brew Beer, from the present period until the 1st of October, without paying duty, such Beer to remain under bond until the 1st of October.Mr. R. Gordon
1264 was of opinion, that considerable inconvenience would result to those engaged in the trade
1264The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the provisions of the Bill. He was aware that it was similar to an Act passed last year, and which had just expired, but the present Bill was to be in force seven years, and some of its provisions though they might be consented to for one year when the country was disturbed, became intolerable through such a period as seven years. By the Bill, arms must be registered, and a license taken out to possess them. No man could have more than two pounds of gunpowder in his house without an express license—a clause that made him suppose Ireland was in a state of rebellion, or at least that the Government regarded the inhabitants with great suspicion. The Act was passed last Session without an observation, but if it were suffered to do so this year, it would reflect great discredit on the Gentlemen connected with Ireland.Mr. Robert Gordon
1227 said, that the object of this petition had been so fully and ably stated by the hon. and learned member for Hull, that he did not feel it necessary to say many words in support of it. But as he had presented petitions of a,
1227Mr. William Duncombe
1215 protested against the haste with which hon. Members were hurrying the Bill through the House. He was not
1215Mr. A. Ellis
 wished the third reading to be deferred to a later day. He was not prepared, without first reading the evidence through, to give his vote on the Bill.Mr. Tennyson
 said, it had been his intention to take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the important subject of the collection of the Revenue. His own wish was, that, a committee should be appointed to inquire into the extraordinary amount of the charge of collection: however, he understood that Government intended to make an inquiry into the subject themselves. If this were confirmed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he should feel disposed to wait till the result of that inquiry was known. He now asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if steps were to be taken by Ministers for the formation of a commission to investigate the matter, and if such were the case, whether we might expect any report or information on the subject before the close of the Session.Mr. P. Thomson
1221dsl41114Percent increase
41114Percent increase1151Difference
1151Difference111513Total
111513Total003Wages
003Wages10180Bread
10180Bread1014Pork
1014Pork3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—
3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—10012Total
10012Total6172Wages
6172Wages9130Bread
9130Bread3103Pork
3103Pork419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—
419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—PROVISIONS And WAGES,
PROVISIONS And WAGES,
41114Percent increase
41114Percent increase1151Difference
1151Difference111513Total
111513Total003Wages
003Wages10180Bread
10180Bread1014Pork
1014Pork3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—
3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—10012Total
10012Total6172Wages
6172Wages9130Bread
9130Bread3103Pork
3103Pork419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—
419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—PROVISIONS And WAGES,
PROVISIONS And WAGES,dsl031Difference
031Difference766Total
766Total9151America
9151America9103Petersburgh
9103Petersburgh101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—
101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—797Total
797Total642America
642America1014Petersburgh
1014Petersburgh33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—
33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—per ton.FREIGHTS.
per ton.FREIGHTS.Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
031Difference
031Difference766Total
766Total9151America
9151America9103Petersburgh
9103Petersburgh101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—
101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—797Total
797Total642America
642America1014Petersburgh
1014Petersburgh33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—
33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—per ton.FREIGHTS.
per ton.FREIGHTS.Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]12201219d121812171216 rose, pursuant to the notice which he had given, to present to the House a Petition from the Ship-owners of the town of Hull. He was confident that the petition would meet with every consideration and attention from the House. If the subject to which the Petition related would of itself be sufficient to fix the attention of all the Members present, the claims of the Petition on their consideration would be enhanced by their knowing that it came from a body of well-informed and well educated gentlemen, who were perfectly cognizant of their own interests and rights, and in his opinion as well qualified as any hon. Gentleman in that House to form a correct judgment upon the subject to which the Petition referred. These gentlemen were associated together in a society called the Ship-owners' Society. From time to time they had laid their petitions most respectfully before the House, and they now again approached it with a respectful statement of their condition,
1221dsl41114Percent increase
41114Percent increase1151Difference
1151Difference111513Total
111513Total003Wages
003Wages10180Bread
10180Bread1014Pork
1014Pork3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—
3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—10012Total
10012Total6172Wages
6172Wages9130Bread
9130Bread3103Pork
3103Pork419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—
419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—PROVISIONS And WAGES,
PROVISIONS And WAGES,
41114Percent increase
41114Percent increase1151Difference
1151Difference111513Total
111513Total003Wages
003Wages10180Bread
10180Bread1014Pork
1014Pork3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—
3155BeefFrom 1826 to 1829—10012Total
10012Total6172Wages
6172Wages9130Bread
9130Bread3103Pork
3103Pork419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—
419£4BeefFrom 1821 to 1824—PROVISIONS And WAGES,
PROVISIONS And WAGES,dsl031Difference
031Difference766Total
766Total9151America
9151America9103Petersburgh
9103Petersburgh101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—
101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—797Total
797Total642America
642America1014Petersburgh
1014Petersburgh33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—
33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—per ton.FREIGHTS.
per ton.FREIGHTS.Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
031Difference
031Difference766Total
766Total9151America
9151America9103Petersburgh
9103Petersburgh101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—
101MemelFrom 1826 to 1829.—797Total
797Total642America
642America1014Petersburgh
1014Petersburgh33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—
33£1MemelFrom 1821 to 1824.—per ton.FREIGHTS.
per ton.FREIGHTS.Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]
Average Rate of Freights, Provisions, and Wages, from 1821 to 1824 and from 1826 to 1829, all inclusive. [The. year 1825 was omitted, as being one of feverish excitement and unusual speculation.]12201219d121812171216Mr. Sykes
1234 returned thanks to his hon. friend, the Member for Montrose, for having excited the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, by his observations, to give some reply to the statements of the petitioners. He thought that this question would have been left in a very unsatisfactory condition indeed, if it had not elicited from his right hon. friend the observations which he had just made. His object in giving notice of his intention to present this petition to-day, was to apprize Ministers of the importance which he attributed to it, and to call upon them to declare their sentiments upon it. If his light hon. friend had persisted in his original determination to keep silence, the greatest dismay would have fallen upon the petitioners. It would have pleased him much more if his right hon. friend, instead of dealing in general professions of the attention which be and his colleagues were always ready to
1234Mr. Sykes
"Tarda venit seris factura nepotibus umbram.'' referred, in confirmation of the assertions of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, to a declaration contained in the Report recently made by the Committee on commerce to the Congress of the United States. That declaration was as follows:—"When the present and past condition of our navigation are contrasted,—when we compare the increase of British and American tonnage before and since the war, and show the rapid growth of the commerce of the British North American possessions, we shall learn to comprehend the advantages of a system of free trade, and we shall perhaps feel no small degree of alarm, lest our fatal restrictions should have already driven us too far in the rear of all our rivals for national power and naval ascendancy." Attached to that report was a comparative statement of British and American tonnage actually employed; and from that statement it appeared, that for the last few years the increase had regularly been on the side of British, and the decrease on the side of American, tonnage. The hon. member for Worcester had quoted the number of foreign vessels entering inwards as a proof of the mischief arising to the Shipping-interest from the reciprocity system; but the evidence which the hon. Member had brought in support of his position did not appear to him to be altogether satisfactory. For his own part, he believed that all foreign shipping was in a much worse situation than our own. The distress of the Shipping-interest was not the malady of our country, but of the times. He believed that the further we advanced in experience, the more should we be convinced that the doctrines advanced upon this subject by his right hon. friend, the member for Liverpool, were doctrines founded on sound policy and the most philosophical principles of political economy. They were the seeds which would hereafter ripen into a plentiful harvest of national wealth; and to their prosperous results might be applied the beautiful expression of Virgil—
"Tarda venit seris factura nepotibus umbram.''Mr. John Stewart
ll1228ll rose also to express a hope that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade would take some notice of the statements which had just been made to the House, He was one of those who thought that some relief might be granted to this particular branch of trade. One of the objects prayed for in the petition presented by his hon. friend, the member for Hull, was certainly within the power of the Government. It was quite possible for the Government to reduce the rates paid by merchant vessels for lighthouses—rates which put about 18,000ll1228llMr. Hume
 said, the statement was, that a case of emergency had arisen which warranted the Admiralty in venturing to increase the expense of the particular item in question, even without the sanction of the House. He could assure Gentlemen opposite, that among persons sitting on this side of the House the impression created, not only by what fell from the Secretary of the Admiralty, but by the observations of another right hon. Gentleman, now in his place, was, that such a danger as that described did exist last August.Mr. Hume
 asked, what was to be the course of proceeding respecting the Estimates. He was surprised at the Civil Contingencies taking precedence of the Ordnance Estimates. When were the Miscellaneous and Irish Estimates to be brought forward.Mr. Hume
 asked, if Wednesday was to be a Supply day.Mr. Hume
 claimed for himself the merit, being one of those Gentlemen, of not having been inattentive to the Bill; but he saw no good reason for opposing the second reading of it. There were some of its regulations which he did not approve of, but he thought that they should be discussed in the Committee.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, that he himself, the worthy Alderman behind him, and others, had waited four or five hours to present petitions; he thought they should be afforded the opportunity of doing so before any other business was entered on.Mr. Burrell
 called the attention of the Secretary for the Colonies to the propriety of procuring certain returns, connected (we believe) with the number of deaths in the colonies. The returns, though ordered, had not been laid before the House, and unless the right hon. the Secretary wished otherwise, he should move that those orders be complied with forthwith.Mr. W. Smith
 asked whether the right hon. Gentleman included steam-vessels in his account.Mr. Trant
 said, there was no disposition on the part of the supporters of the Bill to hurry it through the House. But a most ample inquiry had been entered into, and he thought a very general feeling existed in the House that, after the evidence was ordered to be printed, as little delay should take place as possible. The House would adjourn on Wednesday or Thursday next for the holidays, and it was desirable, he conceived, to have the fate of the Bill decided before that period. The evidence would be printed and in the hands of Members by Monday next; but if any hon. Member should then state that he had not had sufficient time to consider it, he should be ready to postpone the third reading of the Bill till the next day.Sir G. Clerk
 said, the noble Lord had mistaken the nature and tendency of the statement made by the Secretary to the Admiralty. It had been simply stated, that because in August our force in the Mediterranean had been increased from six thousand to eight thousand men, and from six to nine sail of the line, there would be a necessity for an increased accommodation in the Seamen's Hospital at Malta. Nothing had been breathed respecting the country being upon the verge of a war.Sir G. Cockburn
 said, it was stated that in July there was no intention of augmenting the establishment; but that in August, an increase having taken place in the Mediterranean fleet instead of a decrease, it was necessary to augment the hospital. Nine sail of the line were upon the station: it was impossible to tell what might be the result, but he did not say there had been a probability of war.Sir G. Cockburn
1242 explained the circumstances under which the subject had been introduced last Session. An hon. Member had moved for a return of the deaths at Sierra Leone; and combining the un-healthiness of this colony with others, he proposed that similar returns should be produced respecting them. But there were many objections to this. Hon. Gentlemen would at once perceive, in the first place, that as some colonies were healthy at one season, or one year, and the contrary at another season and, at another year, there was
1242Sir G. Murray
 again contended, that in the return which he had seen there were 642 vessels of registered tonnage less this year than there were last.Mr. Robinson
1232 said, that he must be permitted to make one or two remarks on the observations which had fallen from the right hon. President of the Board of Trade. The right hon. Gentleman had said truly that there had been—not that there is—an increase in the amount of British tonnage entered inwards and cleared, outwards.
1232Mr. Robinson
primâ facie122612251224110,6811,0751830
110,6811,0751830128,7521,1851829
128,7521,1851829163,9461,4401828
163,9461,4401828207,0881,7191827
207,0881,7191827Tons.Ships.
Tons.Ships.
110,6811,0751830
110,6811,0751830128,7521,1851829
128,7521,1851829163,9461,4401828
163,9461,4401828207,0881,7191827
207,0881,7191827Tons.Ships.
Tons.Ships.1223 said, he had been particularly requested by the petitioners to support the prayer of this Petition, and he rose to discharge that duty with very great pleasure. The petitioners complained, that since the period when they asked for a Committee of Inquiry—namely, the Session before last, when that committee was refused, the depression which then existed in their trade, so far from getting better, since that time had gone on continually increasing; that the diminution in the value of their property had proceeded at rapid strides; that the rate of freights had become still lower; and that their ships were employed now in many instances without any profitable return. It became the House to consider whether this important national interest should be consigned to ruin without any effort being made to afford it relief. His hon. friend, in presenting the Petition, had said, that the petitioners did not point out any particular remedy for their distress. They certainly did not, because they were of opinion that, without inquiry, it would be presumptuous on their part to dictate to the House the species of remedy which they conceived should be employed for the removal of the distress. It was for the House to institute an inquiry, and to apply the proper, remedy. He recollected that in the course of an incidental discussion upon this subject last Session, the hon. member for Liverpool (Mr. Huskisson) said, that he did not believe that the Shipping-interest was so much depressed as it was described to be, for that we went on building ships, and he could not be satisfied that the Shipping-interest was in such distress while that was the case. He was obliged, however, to deny the correctness of that statement at the time, and he would refer the hon. Member to an account of the number
primâ facie122612251224110,6811,0751830
110,6811,0751830128,7521,1851829
128,7521,1851829163,9461,4401828
163,9461,4401828207,0881,7191827
207,0881,7191827Tons.Ships.
Tons.Ships.
110,6811,0751830
110,6811,0751830128,7521,1851829
128,7521,1851829163,9461,4401828
163,9461,4401828207,0881,7191827
207,0881,7191827Tons.Ships.
Tons.Ships.1223Mr. Robinson
 entirely acquitted the right hon. Gentleman of having given any ground for supposing that a war was impending in August; but from what fell from the Secretary to the Admiralty, he must say that the strong impression upon his mind at the time was, not only that it had been likely that the hospital would be called into action to a greater extent than usual by reason of the augmentation of force in the Mediterranean, but that it had been necessary to provide for the contingency of having a certain number of wounded men to take care of; and it struck him at the time as being rather extraordinary that a communication so important as he considered that to be, should have come from a Gentleman not in the Cabinet.Sir J. Wrottesley
 observed, that the exact words made use of on such an occasion are important; and he believed he could state them pretty accurately. The right hon. Secretary said, that in the month of July the Lords of the Admiralty thought no increase in the hospital at Malta would be necessary; but that in August, there being a prospect of the fleet being called into immediate action, it was requisite to augment the hospital.Lord Howick
 said, he was very sorry to hear of the appointment. The office was one of those which he had expected would have been abolished. He expected that any opportunity which occurred to abolish it would have been eagerly embraced, as it might have been dispensed with ever since the Union. It was to him most extraordinary that Government should have filled up the vacancy when there was a Resolution on the Table of the House, that every part of the expenditure which could be saved ought to be saved. There might have been some delicacy towards removing the hon. Member who held the office; but when he was removed by another appointment he did expect the office would have been done away. He had heard the report of the appointment, but he could not believe it. People could not expect that one Member of Parliament should be sent to the colonies from a useless office, and that another should supply his place at home. He was sorry to hear the Motion, but he could not, of course, oppose it.Mr. Hume
 was ordered to issue a New Writ accordingly for the county of Kerry.The Speaker
 next moved for a New Writ to return a Burgess to sit in Parliament for Corfe Castle, in the room of G. Bankes, Esq., who had accepted the office of one of the Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury.—Ordered.Mr. Planta
1269s.l., in rising to present a Petition from a Stone-mason of Paisley, of the name of Kintry, complaining of the Administration of Justice in Scotland, expressed his regret that the Lord Advocate, or the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department was not present, as the petition contained some representations of very great importance, and well worthy of the attention of the officers of the Crown. The petitioner complained of the great expense he had been put to by being obliged to sue a man for debt in a Sheriffs' Court, which was for such a sum that he could not go into an inferior court. The petitioner complained of the extraordinary length of the written pleadings, and of the great delay which had been caused. It was above a year since the cause was begun, and it was not yet terminated. The proceedings to recover a debt of 411269s.l.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 took that opportunity of observing, that he had, for the same object, moved for a return of the total expense of his Majesty's Consuls at the various ports of the United States of America. No such return had yet been produced; and as it was extremely important that the House should possess it before they came to a determination on the Civil Contingencies, he hoped it would be prepared and laid on the Table immediately after the holidays.Sir James Graham
 observed, that the Government of the Netherlands had reduced the rank of its Ambassador at this Court. He wished to know if it was intended, on the part of this country, to reduce the rank of their Minister?Mr. Lennard
 said, that some reduction was, he believed, in the contemplation of the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department (Lord Aberdeen), but he really was not able to say to what extent it would be carried.—Returns Ordered.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.,1272, in presenting a Petition from Staiths and Runswick, in the North Riding of the County of York, praying for the continuance of the Bounties on taking and curing Fish, which stated, that if the Bounties were withdrawn, ruin would be the consequence to numerous families, took occasion to observe, that he was sorry to see Ministers leave their places and walk away, when the wants of the people were alluded to by
l.,1272Colonel Wilson
1274 said, the counties the hon. Member spoke of were fortunate in possessing a means of passing away va-
1274Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 wished to take that opportunity of asking a noble Lord what was his intention respecting the subject to which he had called the attention of the House some time ago; namely, the great influx of Scotch and Irish paupers.Sir James Graham
, in answer, stated, that shortly after the recess he would submit to the House a proposition with respect to the best mode of passing Scotch and Irish paupers to their own countries.Lord Stanley
1275 said, he had been requested by his hon. friend, the member for Essex, to present a Petition from the Magistrates, Clergy, Gentry, and other inhabitants of Braintree and Bocking, in Essex, praying for the mitigation of the punishment of Forgery. The numerous petitions which had been presented to that House on the subject showed the general feeling which existed in the Country respecting it; and there could be no doubt that that number would have been much greater had not the public been aware that the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department participated in their feelings with respect to the expediency of mitigating the punishment of forgery. He (Mr. Lennard) felt great satisfaction at what the right hon. Gentleman had already stated it to be his intention to do, as far as it went; but he was sure that the public wished for a more extensive measure, and were anxious that the punishment of death for the crime of forgery should be abolished altogether. It had been said, and among others by the hon. member for Bristol, that the monied interest would not be sufficiently protected if the punishment of death for forgery were abolished entirely. He believed, on the contrary, not only that it would be protected, but that it would be protected more efficiently, if the punishment for forgery were not such as to render it repugnant to the feelings of those upon whom forgeries were committed, to prosecute the offenders. He had himself given notice of a motion for the abolition of the punishment of death in all cases of forgery. He had great satisfaction, however, in surrendering the motion into the hands of his hon. and learned friend, the member for
1275Mr. Lennard
 said, that he should with the greatest pleasure resign his undertaking into the hands of the right hon. the Secretary of State, and would therefore wait until the further progress of the right hon. Secretary's Bill, to ascertain how far the objects which they had in view were the same. If he found that the Bill did not go so far as he wished, he should then find it his duty to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice.Sir. J. Mackintosh
1276 rose to present a Petition from certain inhabitants of Westminster, in reference to a subject which had been lately more than once alluded to in this House,—he meant the propriety of making an opening from Waterloo-place into St. James's-park. This Petition was extremely worthy the attention of the House. It was most respectably signed, as any hon. Member might perceive by looking at the signatures attached to it, amongst which were the names of some hon. Members of this House. The petitioners stated, that they did not believe that there had been any specific promise given that the opening in question would be made; but they added, that the genera] impression certainly had been that such an opening would be effected. They further stated, that if they thought the accommodation in question would at all encroach upon the royal privacy, or give the public admission to parts of the Park from which they were at present excluded, they would not seek for it. The accommodation, however, which they sought, would only afford to the public a more easy means of access to those parts of the Park already open to them, and the petitioners expressed their reliance that if a proper representation of the matter were made to his Majesty, he would not deny to the public this means of access to the privileges which they already enjoyed. The petitioners truly stated that this opening would be a great improvement, not only in the way of a public accommodation, but also in point of appearance; for that while the wall remained there, that part of Pall-mall opposite to it was sunk down, and only a part of the Park could be seen from the Terrace; but, as they suggested, if this opening were made, it might be so contrived as to com-
1276Mr. Hobhouse
 gave notice, that on the 29th of April he would move for leave to bring in a Bill to ascertain the boundaries of the Forest of Dean.Lord Lowther
l.l.l.127912781277 presented a Petition from Clement Joseph P. Pen, Baron de Bode, complaining of the losses which he had suffered in consequence of the conduct of the Commissioners for settling the claims of British subjects on the French Government, and praying for relief. If on that occasion he abstained from entering into the details of the case, it was not from a diminished sense which he entertained of the great hardship of the Baron de Bode's case, but because the subject had been several times under the consideration of the House. His own impression of the equity of the Baron's claim was as strong as ever; and it was the impression of several of his hon. friends, who were members of the learned profession, that the claim was as strong in law as he believed it to be in equity. He would, however, confine himself on the present occasion to one point of peculiar hardship in the case; and it was a point to which he wished especially to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. There was no doubt that the Baron de Bode's family had property in France which was confiscated, and there was no doubt that he was a natural-born British subject. Those were facts which were admitted on all hands; but it was asserted that at the time the property in question was confiscated, it belonged, not to him, but to his father. That was denied by the Baron; but it was clear, even if it had been so, that the Baron had not lost his indisputable and undisputed reversionary right in the property. Whatever effect, therefore, that objection might have on the amount of the claim, it could have
l.l.l.127912781277The Hon. E. G. S. Stanley
1280 said, he would not enter into any discussion of the merits of the case; for as it appeared that there was a variety of opinions with respect to the facts, some being asserted by one party and denied by the other, he could not state anything positively without further reference to the circumstances. He certainly, however, did agree with the hon. Gentleman in the view which he took of the matter. He would not enter into the question if the circumstances of this particular case were hard or not; he only knew that where any general rule had been established, an individual might suffer a hardship for which it was not possible to devise a remedy. The great difficulty was as to the distribution of the remaining surplus in the hands of the Commissioners. For it appeared that appeals might be made to the Privy Council against the decisions to which the Commissioners had already arrived. If those appeals were successful, the surplus in the hands of the Commissioners might be demanded by the persons by whom those appeals were preferred. With regard to the claim of the Irish College at Paris, it was not the Government, but the Privy Council, that had decided that the College had a right to appeal. The claim made by the East India Company was for the maintenance of prisoners of war in India during the late war. He agreed that as the Company had not urged its claim in time, it was not entitled to a share in the remaining surplus at present; and (as we understood the right hon. Gentleman) he had
1280The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was due to the numerous and industrious class connected with the Fisheries to state, that the subject of continuing the Bounties on some part of the Fishery, and for a limited period, was now under the consideration of his Majesty's Government; hut it was also necessary to state, that those Bounties would not on any account he continued in any case beyond that limited period. Parliament had determined that the Bounties should cease at a period now near at hand; and he confessed that although the subject of continuing some of the Bounties was under consideration, it would require a very strong case to induce the Government to alter its determination that these Bounties should wholly cease. The continuance of all of them was, indeed, quite out of the question. The Bounties on the curing of the fish might, perhaps, be continued for a short time, both on account of the peculiar nature of that employment, and its aiding the formation of a nursery for seamen; but beyond a short time, he thought it but fair to state, the Government had no disposition to continue any of the Bounties.Mr. Herries
l.1282l. would refer the House to another case, that of Mr. Newland's claim for interest, which ought to be at five instead of three per cent. This person's claim was as sound as any upon the Boyd and Luxemburg Lists. A public body, the India Company, had put forth a claim which had never been heard of until the discussion of the 300,000l.1282l.Mr. Bernal
 said, he was by no means insensible to the opinion of foreign governments, but he must nevertheless say, that it would be extremely hazardous to pay over what was called the surplus, to persons whose claims might be advocated by Members of that House. A number of the petitioners had a right to appeal to the Privy Council, and if the commissioners distributed their funds before the final term, what would the House say to him, if he had to come down to Parliament and ask for a grant to pay the balances?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
"And your Petitioner will ever pray, &c.""Your Petitioner, therefore, most humbly prays that your Honourable House will be pleased to take his unhappy case into your early consideration, and to afford him such relief as, in your wisdom, may seem meet."That your Petitioner courts the most minute, strict, and public investigation of his case."That your Petitioner was possessed of large landed property and mines, which were illegally confiscated and sold by the Revolutionary Government of France; that indemnity for such loss was admitted to be due to your Petitioner, and that it would be a case of unparalleled hardship if, notwithstanding such admission, and the recognition of his losses by two great and powerful Governments, your Petitioner should be deprived of his property without remedy or hope of recovery."That your Petitioner is debarred, by the Convention of April the 25th, 1818, from seeking any redress from the French Government. That your Petitioner having applied in 1826 to the French Government, was referred to that special clause in said Convention, in which it is stated that no farther demand is ever to be made on France by the individuals who were, in conformity to the Convention of 1815, registered as British Claimants, and whose claims had been discharged on the part of France by the funds created in conformity to the Convention of 1815 and 1818, and placed for that purpose at the disposal of the British Government, adding, that Trance could not be called upon to pay the same debt twice, and that your Petitioner must seek his remedy against the British Government.1285The London Gazette,"That your Petitioner can prove that though the Commissioners would not wait for the arrival of the most important evidence announced to them before they signed their Award of Rejection against him, yet that they have to others, even after awards of rejection had been signified to claimants, and published in 1285The London Gazette,"That your Petitioner begs humbly to submit, that under all those circumstances it cannot be maintained that his case has been regularly gone through."That a rehearing was refused by his Majesty's Privy Council to your Petitioner, in consequence, as their Lordships stated, of the limited power granted them by the Act of the 59thGeo. 3rd. c. 31."That your Petitioner was deterred from availing himself of the advantage arising from the introduction of additional evidence in consequence of a threatening letter from the Commissioners, in which they state that they understood that your Petitioner intended to support his case on the appeal with his additional evidence, and therefore, informed him, that the producing of the new additional evidence before the Lords of the Council would not only be fruitless, but most probably would occasion the immediate dismissal of the appeal."That the Commissioners made their Award of Rejection in absence of the most essential evidence, knowing at the time that it was forthcoming, having been apprised by his agent that every thing they had required from him to substantiate his claim would be obtained, and that without the expected evidence it would be impossible for them to come to a just and equitable adjustment. That the Award of Rejection was principally founded on a passage pretended to be in a private deed, but which passage did not exist in that or in any other deed. That there could have existed no valid reason for the Commissioners not having waited for the arrival of his additional evidence before they made their Award of Rejection against your Petitioner, the Commission having remained open nearly four years and a half after this Award was made.1284"That your Petitioner can prove, and always was prepared to prove, if the opportunity had been afforded him, that the property for which he claims indemnity was confiscated
1284"That your Petitioner can prove that the Commissioners have acknowledged, in official documents, that they had kept a large sum apart to meet your Petitioner's claim, which could not have been done had not your Petitioner been a regular registered Claimant. That your Petitioner's case could not at all have been gone into, and have been considered, before the 26th of July, 1826, when the Commissioners closed their labours, as far as concerned the registered Claimants, had not your Petitioner been a regular registered Claimant.The London Gazette."That your Petitioner's name and the amount of his claim stands in the list of regularly registered Claimants in the official Returns made by the Commissioners to your Honourable House; that it stands as such in the official Reports of the Commissioners in The London Gazette."Sheweth—That Parliament, through the operation of the Act of the 59th of Geo. 3rd., c. 31, having virtually become a Trustee for the British Claimants on the French Government, your Petitioner begs leave humbly to represent that he was a Claimant duly registered by the English Commissioners, with the concurrence of the French Commissioners; that his name is registered in the second book, No. 1130. That your Petitioner can prove by documents that it is solely in consequence of the neglect of the English Commissioners that his name was not registered in the first book, No. 587. And your Petitioner humbly submits that the fact of his name having so been only registered in the second book, No. 1130, by the omission of the Commissioners, instead of No. 587, in the first book, cannot be alleged as a reason against the validity of your Petitioner's claim, because that circumstance rests with the Commissioners, and not with him, and because oilier Claimants, registered in the same book, under the same head as your Petitioner, have been paid."The humble Petition of Clement Joseph Philip Pen, Baron de Bode, Baron of the Holy Roman Empire, a Knight of several Orders, and a natural-born British subject"To the Honourable the Commons of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled:1283l. said, that the House had travelled from the question before it, which was not that of the claimants in genera), but simply the case of the Baron de Bode, which was but too well known to the House, for the merits of it had been stated with great ability by the hon. members for Staffordshire and Preston. The case was one of very peculiar hardship. It was never to be lost sight of, that it belonged to class No. 7, out of which a sum of 250,000"And your Petitioner will ever pray, &c.""Your Petitioner, therefore, most humbly prays that your Honourable House will be pleased to take his unhappy case into your early consideration, and to afford him such relief as, in your wisdom, may seem meet."That your Petitioner courts the most minute, strict, and public investigation of his case."That your Petitioner was possessed of large landed property and mines, which were illegally confiscated and sold by the Revolutionary Government of France; that indemnity for such loss was admitted to be due to your Petitioner, and that it would be a case of unparalleled hardship if, notwithstanding such admission, and the recognition of his losses by two great and powerful Governments, your Petitioner should be deprived of his property without remedy or hope of recovery."That your Petitioner is debarred, by the Convention of April the 25th, 1818, from seeking any redress from the French Government. That your Petitioner having applied in 1826 to the French Government, was referred to that special clause in said Convention, in which it is stated that no farther demand is ever to be made on France by the individuals who were, in conformity to the Convention of 1815, registered as British Claimants, and whose claims had been discharged on the part of France by the funds created in conformity to the Convention of 1815 and 1818, and placed for that purpose at the disposal of the British Government, adding, that Trance could not be called upon to pay the same debt twice, and that your Petitioner must seek his remedy against the British Government.1285The London Gazette,"That your Petitioner can prove that though the Commissioners would not wait for the arrival of the most important evidence announced to them before they signed their Award of Rejection against him, yet that they have to others, even after awards of rejection had been signified to claimants, and published in 1285The London Gazette,"That your Petitioner begs humbly to submit, that under all those circumstances it cannot be maintained that his case has been regularly gone through."That a rehearing was refused by his Majesty's Privy Council to your Petitioner, in consequence, as their Lordships stated, of the limited power granted them by the Act of the 59thGeo. 3rd. c. 31."That your Petitioner was deterred from availing himself of the advantage arising from the introduction of additional evidence in consequence of a threatening letter from the Commissioners, in which they state that they understood that your Petitioner intended to support his case on the appeal with his additional evidence, and therefore, informed him, that the producing of the new additional evidence before the Lords of the Council would not only be fruitless, but most probably would occasion the immediate dismissal of the appeal."That the Commissioners made their Award of Rejection in absence of the most essential evidence, knowing at the time that it was forthcoming, having been apprised by his agent that every thing they had required from him to substantiate his claim would be obtained, and that without the expected evidence it would be impossible for them to come to a just and equitable adjustment. That the Award of Rejection was principally founded on a passage pretended to be in a private deed, but which passage did not exist in that or in any other deed. That there could have existed no valid reason for the Commissioners not having waited for the arrival of his additional evidence before they made their Award of Rejection against your Petitioner, the Commission having remained open nearly four years and a half after this Award was made.1284"That your Petitioner can prove, and always was prepared to prove, if the opportunity had been afforded him, that the property for which he claims indemnity was confiscated
1284"That your Petitioner can prove that the Commissioners have acknowledged, in official documents, that they had kept a large sum apart to meet your Petitioner's claim, which could not have been done had not your Petitioner been a regular registered Claimant. That your Petitioner's case could not at all have been gone into, and have been considered, before the 26th of July, 1826, when the Commissioners closed their labours, as far as concerned the registered Claimants, had not your Petitioner been a regular registered Claimant.The London Gazette."That your Petitioner's name and the amount of his claim stands in the list of regularly registered Claimants in the official Returns made by the Commissioners to your Honourable House; that it stands as such in the official Reports of the Commissioners in The London Gazette."Sheweth—That Parliament, through the operation of the Act of the 59th of Geo. 3rd., c. 31, having virtually become a Trustee for the British Claimants on the French Government, your Petitioner begs leave humbly to represent that he was a Claimant duly registered by the English Commissioners, with the concurrence of the French Commissioners; that his name is registered in the second book, No. 1130. That your Petitioner can prove by documents that it is solely in consequence of the neglect of the English Commissioners that his name was not registered in the first book, No. 587. And your Petitioner humbly submits that the fact of his name having so been only registered in the second book, No. 1130, by the omission of the Commissioners, instead of No. 587, in the first book, cannot be alleged as a reason against the validity of your Petitioner's claim, because that circumstance rests with the Commissioners, and not with him, and because oilier Claimants, registered in the same book, under the same head as your Petitioner, have been paid."The humble Petition of Clement Joseph Philip Pen, Baron de Bode, Baron of the Holy Roman Empire, a Knight of several Orders, and a natural-born British subject"To the Honourable the Commons of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled:1283l.Sir James Graham
1286, in moving that the Petition be printed, asked the hon. Gentleman whether it was not the fact that the Baron de Bode's being put on the list of claims under the British Government had barred his seeking redress from the French Government, which, under other circumstances, he would have been entitled to demand? When he had brought forward this case two years ago, he had founded his motion upon terms not calculated to secure success, for he had criminated the Commissioners. Although he had also moved for a Select Committee, which was not the way best calculated to conciliate the opposite side of the House, yet the case had made so strong an impression, that he had been defeated by a majority of only thirty-seven. This sufficiently showed what the real feelings were upon the subject. It was a case of great injustice, and. he trusted that the Treasury
1286The Hon. E. G. S. Stanley
 would not allow, that because the Baron de Bode's case had been registered, the claim must be allowed. This only made it a fair subject for consideration. The Commissioners were of opinion that the claim of the Baron ought to be settled by the French Government, the decision turning on the fact that the property had not been confiscated on account of the Baron being an English subject, but because it was the property of a French subject, who had belonged to the unsuccessful party in a civil contest. The Commissioners thought they had no authority to settle his claim, and therefore they rejected it.The Solicitor-general
 explained, that the Baron's having been put upon the list by the British Government barred his claim upon the Government of France.The Hon. E. G. S. Stanley
l.l.l.1287s.l.s.l.l.,l. presented a Petition from Cirencester, complaining of Distress, and praying for a Repeal of the Malt-tax. The hon. Member said, he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of the Members of the Government to the saving which might be effected in the Packet-service, with advantage to the country. He was induced to notice this in consequence of a letter addressed to him in a provincial paper, wherein the difference of expense was stated at 41,000l.l.l.1287s.l.s.l.l.,l.Mr. Pendarvis
13231322132113201319contemptu famœ contemptu virtutis1318"Urban venalem et citò perituram."131713161315 said, that the speech they had heard from his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Macauley) was one which, he had no doubt, would make its full impression on the House, it being every way worthy of the name he bore. It was not, therefore, to supply any defects in that speech that he had risen to address the House, for indeed there were none that he could find, but principally to absolve his own conscience. He felt that it was a duty he owed to his religion, to mankind, and his country, to declare his sentiments on this occasion. His desire was, to bear testimony in favour of the completion of that system of religions liberty of which that House had already, during the last two Sessions, effected so large a portion. However politic it might have been in his hon. friend, who had so luminously introduced
13231322132113201319contemptu famœ contemptu virtutis1318"Urban venalem et citò perituram."131713161315Sir James Macintosh
13251324 said, if he could consider that it would be a departure from the principles of the bill of last year to oppose the present measure, he should he one of the last to oppose it; hut he was of opinion it stood on very different grounds from that measure. He could not view the subject in the same light as the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. He considered that there was a great and broad distinction between the parties to the mea-
13251324The Chancellor of the Exchequer
132813271326 said, if he thought the Motion likely to beget an impression among the people that the Parliament was indifferent to Christianity, he should find great difficulty in agreeing to the principle of the measure. But whether he looked to the principles of the Motion of his hon. and learned friend, or whether he looked to the conduct of the people since notice was given that it was the intention of his hon. friend to bring forward such a Motion, be was satisfied that the country did not
132813271326Dr. Lushington
13081307mollissima tempora fandi,1306The Morning PostThe Morning Chronicle13051304 felt himself called on to resist the introduction of the measure as an imperative duty from which he could not shrink; and he hoped it would be rejected instantly, and for ever. In the speech of
13081307mollissima tempora fandi,1306The Morning PostThe Morning Chronicle13051304Sir R. Inglis
1314auto da fé,onus probandi13131312131113101309 proceeded to address the House nearly as follows:—In spite of the parallel which my hon. friend (the member for Oxford) has attempted—I think in vain—to draw between this case and the Roman Catholic measure before the House during the last Session of Parliament, I trust that we shall not have to forego the votes of many of those hon. Gentlemen who in the last Session were opposed to the concession of the Catholic claims. Indeed, many of those Gentlemen will be precluded, by the course they then took, from offering any opposition to the present measure. The general principle of religious toleration was involved in the question of last year, as it is now: but most of those Gentlemen who voted against the Roman Catholics declared in favour of this general principle, only they found that there were special circumstances which took the case of the Roman Catholics out of the pale of that principle. But, Sir, there are no such circumstances here. In this instance, there is no foreign power to be feared. There is no divided allegiance threatening the State—there are no bulls—there are no indulgencies—there are no dispensations—there is no priesthood exercising an absolute authority over the consciences of those who are under their spiritual control—there are no agitators rousing and exciting the people to a course contrary to all good government—there are no associations assembling, or charged with assembling, for the purpose of assuming, a power which ought only to belong to legally recognized functionaries—there arc no mobs, disciplined to their task, and almost in the regular training of arms—there is no rent levied with the re-
1314auto da fé,onus probandi13131312131113101309Mr. Macauley
133313321331 said, that the situation of the Jews had been more than once likened to that of the Roman Catholics, although it appeared to him there was a wide and material difference between them. The Catholics had possessed great power and privileges, of which they had been, for good reasons, deprived; and it did great honour to those who, studying well the circumstances of the country, had restored them to the situation they before had held. But how did the case of the Jews stand? They had possessed nothing; they held nothing. They had no civil rights; they never had any. He looked with as much abhorrence as any man, and deplored as much as any man the atrocities once perpetrated against them; but he could not, therefore, be insensible to the nature of their situation in this country. They had no natural rights; and Lord
133313321331The Solicitor General
1273 presented a similar Petition from the Robin Hood's Bay fishermen, and intimated a wish to know what
1273Mr. W. Duncombe
data"De communi consilio super negoliis quibusdam arduis el urgentibus, regem statum et defensionem regni Angliœ et ecclesiœ Anglicanœ concernentibus." was of opinion, that the Jews could not be admitted into Parliament without an alteration of the original writ of summons, as their religion was entirely at variance with the spirit of that declaration. He opposed the Jews because they did not believe in Christianity. The original summons to Parliament ran thus. data"De communi consilio super negoliis quibusdam arduis el urgentibus, regem statum et defensionem regni Angliœ et ecclesiœ Anglicanœ concernentibus."Mr. Harrison Batley
 presented a Petition from the Justices of Peace near Lichfield, praying for a Revision of the Laws with respect to Vagrants; belonging to Ireland, Scotland, Guernsey, and Jersey, resident in England. The number of Irish and Scotch vagrants who visited Staffordshire and Shropshire was very great, and they gave a great deal of trouble, particularly the Scotch, who seemed to have an extraordinary desire to revisit the places where they had once been harboured. The parish authorities, at considerable expense, sometimes sent some back to Scotland, but they in general returned, causing additional expense. There were instances of the same individuals having been eight times passed to the northern side of the Tweed within a very short time. With this disposition to prey on their neighbours, there was no other mode of dealing than by a strong legislative measure.Mr. Littleton
 presented a Petition from the Operatives of Dublin, complaining of Distress, and soliciting inquiry by the Committee appointed to inquire into the propriety of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland. The petitioners stated, that the distress in Ireland, particularly in Dublin, was very great, so great indeed as to be unexampled,' except when famine was hanging over the land. The manufacturers there had generally suffered from the same vicissitudes as the manufacturers of England. There was a sympathetic union between the two. In 1824, for example, the English manufacturer enjoyed temporary prosperity, and the Dublin manufacturer was also prosperous. Between the condition of the two countries there was, however, a striking difference, for what was only depression to the English manufacturer, was destitution to the Irish manufacturer.Mr. Moore
1271l.l.s.l.l.l.l., in rising to move for certain returns necessary to a proper explanation of several items charged in the Civil Contingencies, observed, that as these would shortly come under the consideration of the House, it was important that the House should be put in possession of all the information which might be necessary to form a proper judgment of the different items charged under the head of Civil Contingencies. Some of them appeared to him to demand explanation, as, for example, 1,0001271l.l.s.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l. supported the prayer of the petition, and recommended enlarging the sum to 30l.Mr. Hume
 said, that he was sorry not to see the hon. Member in his place who had charge of Lord Ellenborough's Divorce Bill, as he should ask him to re-commit the Bill, in order to amend the evidence. At present the evidence was in such a defective state, that he was sure hon. Members would think the Bill ought not to pass. When the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill was present he would again mention the subject.Mr. Hume
pro ratâ1281l., said, he could not avoid expressing his regret that the right honourable Gentleman had given such a vague and unsatisfactory answer to the plain and straight-forward question, addressed to him by his hon. friend. The question was, whether it was the intention of the King's Government to take into their favourable consideration the case of the Baron de Bode as having an equitable and legal demand on this fund.pro ratâ1281l.,Dr. Phillimore
1270 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Bristol, praying for the abolition of the punishment of death for Forgery. The petitioners stated, that only three prosecutions for the crime of forgery, with the exception of prosecutions by the Bank of England, had taken place in Bristol during twelve years, and
1270Mr. Hart Davis
 thought the case one of great hardship, and the subject was of such importance, that it required a more formal inquiry. On that occasion he only wished to guard himself against the supposition that he acquiesced in the arguments of his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Robert Grant
1303130213011300129912981297***12961295129412931292de Judaismo12911290de Judaismo."Non solum excoriendo, sed eviscerando exlorsit."12891288 said, that in introducing the Motion of which he had already given notice, to the attention of the House, he should have preferred avoiding all particular observations, reserving to himself the right of making whatever remarks he pleased during the discussion of the question at some future stage; and this course he would have pursued, because he could not have anticipated that any difficulties would be thrown in the way of the Bill at that period, or any opposition offered to its further progress; but having understood that one or two hon. Members had announced their intention, as it undoubtedly was their right, to contest the measure in this its first stage, and other hon. Members having declared their design to suspend their opinions until they should have heard the reasons advanced on either side, he thought he had no option, but must, however reluctantly, trouble the House with an exposition of those points upon which he founded the belief, and indulged the hope, that his proposal would be entertained. He begged, however, to preface his observations upon the subject with an explanation of the nature of his connection with the cause he advocated. It was not only unsought and unforeseen, but altogether fortuitous. Understanding that sonic such question was in contemplation, he had been led to turn his attention to it—not without prejudices, which, however, calm reflection had completely dissipated—and thus convinced of the justice and policy of the measure, he did not consider himself at liberty to decline the honourable office of conducting it, although it came from strange hands. He stated this, that his humble opinions might not lose their due weight, however small that might be, being, as they were, entirely the result of conviction. The question before the House he proposed to treat after the following manner: he would first state the law in regard to that class of British subjects on whose behalf he appeared: he would next declare the grounds upon which these persons complained of that state of the law,
1303130213011300129912981297***12961295129412931292de Judaismo12911290de Judaismo."Non solum excoriendo, sed eviscerando exlorsit."12891288Mr. R. Grant
13361335 said, he would make a very short reply. It had been allowed by every one that the loyalty and excellent conduct of the Jews were unexceptionable. No man, not even the right hon. Gentleman, had thrown any imputation upon them. It was quite unnecessary, therefore, for him to trouble the House at any length; for he appealed to every unprejudiced person who heard him, if any subject had ever been more victoriously argued than the Motion had been by those hon. Members who had supported it. It was perfectly evident, indeed, that their arguments were unanswerable. The great objection of those who opposed the Motion seemed to consist in the phrase, "they are Jews; we are Christians." Now, in his opinion, the very reason for admitting the objects of his Motion into a full participation of the civil rights of their countrymen was, that they
13361335Mr. R. Grant
 entreated the House, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to preserve the religion of Christianity—the religion of the State—from being defiled by the introduction of the Bill now proposed. If they wished to preserve the name of a Christian people—if they were anxious to support the distinctions of their Christian Constitution, he implored them to reject a measure which gave political power to a sect whose religion was hostile to both. Without trying to reconcile his vote on the Roman Catholic Question with the one he should give that night, he should merely say that he resisted this bill on the great principle that its admission was inconsistent with our Christian Constitution.Mr. Perceval
1334 maintained, that if it were desirable that the Jews should at any time be admitted within the pale of the Constitution, it was desirable that they should be admitted with as little delay as possible. He must beg to express, not merely his approbation, but his admiration of the manner in which his hon. friend had brought forward the present Motion. He admired both the sincerity and courage of his hon. friend; and he had evinced both those qualities in the highest degree. Religion ought not, in his opinion, to be introduced into any question similar to the present, which was a question, not of religion, but of politics. Let those who introduced it recollect a passage in the book which they so justly revered—"Render unto Caesar the things which are Cæsar's;" and then came the grand distinction—"and unto God the things which are God's." On all points of religion he would leave men to their own consciences. As to political considerations, he wished to know in what times had the Jews evinced any inclination towards such political principles as ought to prevent them from having a share in the civil rights enjoyed by their fellow subjects? He had never heard of any such case. He had heard, indeed, of their having engaged to furnish loans for other countries than those in which they lived. If, however, they had not the patriotic feeling which would prevent such a transaction, the imputation rested, not on them, but on the governments which withheld from them those civil rights and privileges which alone rendered a man's country dear to him. He recollected an hon. Member, who had that evening opposed the Motion, and from whose good sense he should have expected a different line of conduct, declared in the last Session of Parliament that when once a dozen Catholic Members were introduced
1334Mr. W. Smith
13301329 said, that, if to justify himself in hazarding a few observations upon this subject, he had felt any hope that he should have been able to add any thing to what had already been brought forward, he had certainly better not now have risen; but he was inclined to think that upon an entirely new question the expression of a mere concurrence of opinion might be of some use, from however humble a Member of that House, though it added nothing in point of argument. The effect of argument might safely be left to the speech of his hon. and learned friend, the very circumstance of whose introducing this measure had conferred much benefit upon it—much by his great powers of mind, and much by his blameless character. An objection, anticipated indeed by his hon. and learned friend, had been taken upon a religious
13301329Lord Morpeth
13871386138513841383a mensa et thoro said, that if he were to consult the dictates of his own inclination, he should not take any part in this discussion; but, on mature reflection, he felt that he should fail in his duty, if he did not state the impression made upon his mind by the evidence which had been taken. It so happened that he, as Chancellor of the Diocess of London, had to pronounce the sentence of divorce 13871386138513841383a mensa et thoroDr. Lushington
1388 said, he rose to congratulate the House and the country on the speech he had just, heard. The hon. and learned Gentleman had done as much as man could do in controverting a certain set of arguments which had been brought forward by some hon. Members, and which, he thought, might be well described without imputing motives to any hon. Gentleman under the appellations of cant and
1388Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that having been in a manner appealed to upon this subject, he felt bound to say what he knew respecting the conduct of the noble Lord. He was the better able to do this, because he had married a sister of the noble Lord's former wife, and he thought he should not do his duty to the noble Lord if he did not bear testimony to the excellent conduct of the noble Lord towards that Lady. He thought that the argument which went to blame him for having allowed his wife to go out without him, had been fully refuted by those who had spoken in favour of the Bill, and he would, therefore, only make this observation on the course pointed out. by hon. Gentlemen who advanced that argument. If that course were to be pursued, instead of being English husbands, they would be converted into suspicious persons of a very different character. He was of opinion that they ought to treat their wives with attention and kindness, remembering that they were English-women, and that they ought not to be blamed for placing unbounded and unlimited confidence in them.Colonel Wood
1394 thought, that more evidence might and ought to have been produced. If they were to retain their judicial functions in matters of this sort—though, in his opinion, the sooner the judicial functions of that House ceased
1394Lord Francis Osborne
 said, he would give his vote upon this question uninfluenced by fear, favour, or affection—by envy, hatred, or malice. The evidence did not appear to him to be satisfactory—it was not, in his opinion, sufficient to entitle the noble Lord to a farthing damages in a court of law. He allowed that the adultery had been committed; and therefore his opposition arose, not from any doubt of this fact, but from his belief that there was a collusion between the parties to obtain a divorce. He thought, too, that the long-continued neglect of Lord Ellenborough deprived him of all right to the relief he claimed at their hands. He was not desirous of insinuating that such neglect justified the conduct of the lady, but it certainly was an extenuation of it. He believed in his conscience that Lady Ellenborough had been neglected, abandoned, and sacrificed. There was no good proof of the existence of connubial felicity, or that his Lordship had enjoyed the comforts of matrimony; on the contrary, it was in evidence that he had not enjoyed them, and most probably by his own fault. It appeared that the parties had not cohabited for months before their final separation. And when the youth and inexperience of her Ladyship were taken into consideration, and when it was remembered that she was subjected to the mischievous influence of gay and profligate associates, in disregard of warning given, and suffered, with a blind confidence on the part of his Lordship, to roam about unprotected, he thought there could be little doubt that she had been sacrificed, and he had as little doubt that Lord Ellenborough was not entitled to the relief he sought. Although reluctant, he felt himself compelled to vote against the Bill.The Marquis of Blandford
1398 said, if he had conceived it was within the power of misapprehension itself so to have misapprehended what had fallen from him, as he now found it had been misapprehended by the hon. member for Montrose, perhaps he should have remained silent on this discussion. But he had never believed that such a power of misrepresentation could have existed in any individual. That any man who had the faculty of recollection, that any one who had the power of stating facts that had previously happened, should have got up within three-quarters of an hour after he had delivered his speech, and put into his mouth sentiments which he had never uttered—conceptions he had never entertained, and which he had never given any man of common apprehension reason to believe existed in his mind, was most wonderful. There was no safety for any man if, speaking in plain intelligible language, his terms were to be tortured into meaning they did not bear, unless the House had a short-hand-writer at the Table at once to refute representations that were totally unfounded. What had he said? He had been accused of having said that the opposers of the Bill had been carried away by the influence of the unpopularity of the noble Lord, and had for that cause alone been betrayed into attempting to do injustice. Now what he had really said was, that he lamented he had found a strong feeling against the noble Lord on the ground of his unpopularity; but it was only the hon. Member who could have converted such an expression into a direct charge that that hon. Member was influenced solely by such a motive. The hon. Member had said that he knew nothing of that unpopularity, but were it not for his confidence in that hon. Member's statements, he should have had a little difficulty in crediting such ignorance. What bad he (Dr. Lushington) said? Let
1398Dr. Lushington
 voted in the minority, because he was of opinion that the noble Lord ought not to receive the relief he claimed. He knew nothing about his unpopularity either in that House, with the country, or with the ladies. Certainly the situation of the noble Lord, whether he were popular or unpopular, was not enviable.Mr. Alderman Wood
a laugha laugh1401 had not the slightest intention of doing what the gallant officer appeared to imagine. The observation he had made was in allusion to what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Tregony, as to the supposed unpopularity
a laugha laugh1401Mr. Alderman Wood
 assured the gallant officer that he had not much time for reading newspapers, in which he supposed the statement complained of was contained. For his own part he had certainly never heard of it.Mr. Alderman Wood
 stated the course he intended to pursue with regard to the Stamp Duties. He should move for a committee of the whole House to-morrow on the subject, in order to obtain an opportunity of presenting the new schedule of duties. Although he meant to bring the matter forward on a Wednesday, in contravention of the usual practice, he hoped he should be excused, when it was considered that it would be desirable to have the schedule printed and circulated during the recess, and Wednesday was the only opportunity for taking steps to effect that object. He hoped, however, that the matter might not become the subject of discussion, particularly on a Wednesday, when the House would probably not be very fully attended, and at a time when the subject could not be properly treated, Members being but partially acquainted with the schedule. He should lay the schedule before the House tomorrow, and the consideration of it would come on appropriately after the holidays.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that considering there were a million of persons in the metropolis, it was monstrous and preposterous that public conveyances should continue in their present state. No coach, excepting Hackney Coaches, was allowed by law to carry passengers to any part of the town, unless it took its departure from a distance. He considered this a most monstrous regulation. It was impossible that such a state of things could continue, and that the public convenience should be thus needlessly sacrificed. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would turn his early attention to the subject.Mr. Warburton
ll1404 rose to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the intentions of his Majesty's Government, on the subject of the Tobacco Duties. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether it was intended to make any alteration in the relative duties on stem, leaf, and the other kinds of Tobacco. He also begged to know if it were
ll1404Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that with respect to the subject alluded to by the hon. Member who spoke last, he believed that it would be included in a motion which was to be made by the hon. member for Southwark. He had, however, no hesitation in stating at once, that the constant answer which had been given by the Board of Trade to petitioners on this subject, since 1825, was, that the parties complaining had no right to compensation for this dropped shilling. If the hon. member for Southwark had been there to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice for that evening, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should have been prepared to state to the House the reasons upon which he and his colleagues had come to this determination with respect to the dropped shilling. In answer to the questions put to him by the hon. member for London, he begged to state that he had no intention of altering the relative duties on stem and other Tobacco. He proposed, however, to move tomorrow that the House should resolve itself into a committee upon the laws with respect to Tobacco in Ireland, and then he should be prepared to go more fully into the question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 feared, that on the second reading of the Bill, he should be obliged to object to it altogether.Lord J. Russell
 took that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention to propose the consolidation of the Assessed Taxes Acts, and when he should be ready to bring it forward.Mr. Bright
 said, he was so much occupied in the consolidation of the Stamp Acts that he had not had time to pay attention to the other subject, and could not at that moment say when he should be ready with it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to bring on the subject in the present session.Mr. Bright
 replied, that he was prepared to do so, but at present he could not fix the time.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1411 asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to renew the Assessed Taxes Composition Act. If he did, it was time that those concerned
1411Mr. C. Calvert
 said, that the House and the Country would obtain a full explanation of what was intended on the subject in a few days.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llll.,l observed, that as the House had decided against the recommendation of the Finance Committee, and had negatived the reduction of the office of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance, it was hopeless now to have any reduction in this department. But there was an understanding that if the Lieutenant-general were continued, the salary of the Master-general, which was now almost a sinecure, should be reduced from 3,000llll.,lMr. Hume
1412 hoped the falling-off in the revenue would be double the sum mentioned by the hon. member for Mont-rose, for that alone would oblige Government to reduction. He had had several anonymous communications lately, pointing out various instances of extravagant application of the public money; and though he would not use them, for he was unwilling to encourage any such communications, thinking they came from those who, if what they stated were true, ought not to be afraid or ashamed to avow themselves, yet he believed much of the information conveyed by them to be correct. He hoped, therefore, the hon. member for Montrose would continue his very useful exertions to promote economy, and he should be happy to give him his best sup-
1412Colonel Sibthorp
 could not approve of that kind of economy recommended by the hon. member for Montrose, of going back to the system of 1792, which he so often recommended. Let it he recollected, that we formerly carried on war by our money, and employing foreign troops to fight for us, and the consequence was, that war was much more expensive, and less efficiently conducted: but when we began to take the matter into our own hands, we went on much better. The Ordnance Department was now in a much more efficient state, and though he saw a formidable, and perhaps, not a very constitutional, array of seven or eight officers opposite connected with it; yet he would rather see the department in its present effective state, than go back to the former practice of carrying on the war rather by the employment of others than by our own forces.Mr. Trant
 brought up the Report of the last Committee of Supply.Sir A. Grant
, adverting to what fell from the hon. member for Dover, said, he did not expect his support in any useful object,—and he should never seek it. He would take this opportunity of asking whether the Government were still going on manufacturing and selling powder. He thought the practice of manufacturing our own gunpowder, was a very extravagant mode of supplying the public service with that article, which might be much more cheaply supplied by others.Mr. Hume
 said, that Government was at present manufacturing only a small quantity of powder, and was not selling any.Mr. Perceval
1413 must repeat, that we were paying three times more for the article by Government taking the manufacture on itself, than it might be obtained for from private manufacturers. We had now a
1413Mr. Hume
 concurred with the hon. Member, that the system of manufacturing by Government was any thing but one of economy. He had heard that some arms, which were made for the East India Company at our manufactory at Enfield, might have been obtained much cheaper at Birmingham; and that, accordingly, the Company refused the contract.Sir J. Wrotlesley
 said, that Government offered to make some arms for the Company, but the contract was refused, though without reference to the price or the pattern.—The Resolution agreed to.Mr. Perceval
 said, that he could perhaps satisfy his noble friend without referring to the document, which, however, he thanked his noble friend for being obliging enough to put into his hands. His noble friend had referred to a document which had been copied from the foreign into the English Newspapers, and which purported to be an amnesty granted, or intended to be granted, by Don Miguel, to persons who had taken part in the recent political events in Portugal. He had seen that document in the papers, but he could assure the House and his noble friend, that his Majesty's Government had no knowledge of the existence of such a document, or of any intention of issuing such a document. His noble friend, therefore, had as much information as his Majesty's Government had on this subject; and it would be seen, therefore, that as the newspapers were the common and only source from which any thing respecting the document could be learned, he could tell no more about it than any other hon. Member could. This, he believed, would satisfy his noble friend, and there was no occasion for him to go through his noble friend's questions, which, after this explanation, of course fell to the ground.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would not oppose the bringing in the Bill, but would beg to suggest to his noble friend that certain parties should be exempted from its operation; for instance, farmers who cultivated their farms by their own labour and that of their sons, and that persons so employing labourers should not be thereby qualified to vote at vestries. With such exemptions, he thought the Bill would be likely to do much good.Mr. Lennard
1374 congratulated the House upon its having consented to have, the evidence taken in this case printed. He had given to that evidence his deepest consideration, and he thought that it must carry conviction home to the mind of every man who read it, that adultery had been committed by Lady Ellenborough. Neither by the divine law, nor yet by the ecclesiastical law, did adultery give a right to marry a second lime to the party injured by that adultery. He must come down to Parliament to obtain that right. The interference of Parliament was necessary to obtain that privilege; and he said, that the individual who claimed that privilege at the hands of Parliament, must himself come before Parliament pure and unpolluted in all respects. Now, he maintained, that upon such evidence as had been produced in the present case, Lord Ellenborough would not have gained a shilling damages in any court of common law; for the evidence established, beyond all dispute, that he had not been that faithful and affectionate, and vigilant guardian of his young wife's honour that he ought to have been. It was in evidence that Lady Ellenborough had been in the habit of going to operas, balls, and routes, unaccompanied by her noble husband; and he was con-
1374Mr. Harrison Batley
 presented a Petition from George Green, an owner of Hackney Coaches, against the Commissioners of Hackney Coaches, and complaining of a system of favouritism and monopoly.Mr. C. Pallmer
 was aware of the difficulties in the way of parts of the plan, but he would endeavour to meet them as well as he could.Lord Nugent
14101409dssdss1408dIn sese redit.""Ubi nulla fugam reperit fallacia, victus1407, after presenting a Petition from labourers of an hundred in Buckinghamshire, complaining of distress, and attributing a great portion of their misery to the injurious administration of the Poor-laws, proceeded to move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable parishes to make bet-
14101409dssdss1408dIn sese redit.""Ubi nulla fugam reperit fallacia, victus1407Lord Nugent
 said, that the schedule would not be sufficient—the Act itself ought to be produced. However, if it were impossible to do this before the holidays, he hoped it would not be delayed one day after the re-assembling of Parliament.Mr. Bright
 inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he meant to bring in his bill to alter, consolidate, and amend the Stamp Acts.Mr. Bright
 wished to set the hon. Member right as to what he had said. He meant that there had been gross and atrocious calumnies publicly circulated against Lord Ellenborough, stating that he was anxious to re-marry. He repeated, this was a most gross and atrocious calumny. Thinking that the hon. Alderman alluded to those statements, he rose to order.Sir H. Hardinge
 rose amid considerable confusion, to order, and observed, that what had been stated was a most foul and atrocious calumny. His reason for rising was, that the hon. Alderman, member for the city of London, appeared to be making observations re-echoing the foul and atrocious calumnies which were in circulation.Sir H. Hardinge
1399 certainly seldom had to accuse the hon. member for Montrose of invention, and in this instance he only meant to say, that that hon. Member had mistaken his arguments. He had said, that that hon. Member's view of the evidence was a perversion of it, and he was still of that opinion. The hon. Member had argued that a case of sufficient adultery had not been made out, Surely that
1399Sir H. Hardinge
, Lord Nugent, and two or three other Members rose together, but,Sir Henry Hardinge
1362136113601359135813571356animus1355No, no13541353 persevered, and began by observing, that under any other circumstances he should be happy to allow any other member to address the House; but under the peculiar circumstances of the present case, he must beg leave to make a few observations on the speech of the hon. member for Montrose. He thanked that hon. Member for the opportunity he had afforded him of replying to the charges brought against the conduct of his noble friend; but he must, at the same time, say, that he never recollected to have heard a more clumsy perversion of reasoning, or a more exaggerated statement of facts; and if he pretended in this matter to fulfil a judicial function, he confessed he had never met with or heard of any case in which the evidence had been summed up in a more unfair and perverted manner. He did not complain of the examination of the witnesses. He was glad, as far as his noble friend's character was concerned, that the evidence had been sifted so much; and that, as the honour and happiness of his noble friend were at stake, the House would have an opportunity of fairly deciding on the merits of the case. The hon. member for Montrose, in his disjointed and inefficient examination of the evidence, had dwelt much on the prevarications of Lady Ellenborough's groom; but the House would recollect that he was the witness for the guilty party, and that he was engaged in their interest. Mr. Freshfield had proved that Carpenter was exclusively the groom of Lady Ellenborough, and a most unwilling witness; and that the moment the adultery was discovered, and the separation took place, he was dismissed from Lord Ellenborough's service. All his evidence, therefore, must be taken as coming from a person who was an unwilling witness for Lord Ellenborough, and only brought forward in order to prove
1362136113601359135813571356animus1355No, no13541353Sir Henry Hardinge
 was understood to say across the Table, that the cases referred to were very different from the one before the House.Sir H. Hardinge
1402a laugh wished to make a single observation as to the present state of the law with regard to marriage. There was one law for marriage in England, another law of marriage in Scotland, and in Ireland there was no law of marriage at all [1402a laughMr. Croker
 remarked, that while all the short stages had so materially improved within the last few years, Hackney Coaches had deteriorated, arising from the imbecility and misconduct of the Board.Mr. Monck
ubi minus dicitur plus intelligitur.1393 said, that there were suspicions in this case, as there must be in every case which was not submitted to the decision of a jury; but he did not think that there were any good grounds for imputing misconduct to his Lordship. It was, therefore, impossible for him to refuse his assent to the present measure. He agreed in general with the principle of the Mosaic law, that infidelity was a ground for divorce; but that general principle must have some certain exceptions, not, perhaps, distinctly expressed, but not the less clearly understood, according to that
ubi minus dicitur plus intelligitur.1393Mr. Monck
13971396, in continuation said, he knew nothing of what had been done out of doors. He certainly had not made any false and foul imputations. Then it was paid there was a conspiracy among those
13971396Mr. Hume
Some hon. Member was understood to deny that such words had been uttered1395 was addressing the House. The hon. Member complained of the conduct of other hon. Members in casting improper imputations on the motives of those individuals who had opposed the Bill. He did not complain of hard words merely, for to them he was pretty well accustomed, but of imputations which were most unfounded, and, therefore, most unjust. He complained especially of the hon. member for Tregony (Dr. Lushington) who being himself so well acquainted with the manner of examining witnesses and sifting evidence, and who must, therefore, be well aware of the different impressions it produced on different minds, should yet have told the House that those who were of an opinion contrary to that which he held, were not men of honest and upright minds, He thought such an observation most uncalled-for and unwarranted. An hon. Member had then accused those who opposed the Bill of having opposed it merely because Lord Ellenborough was unpopular. He denied the fact. The first time he had heard of that unpopularity was in that House. He asserted that that hon. Member was wrong in the ground he had taken—he assumed that there was no evidence to implicate Lord Ellenborough, although he must have recollected the opinion given by an hon. and learned Member, who had clearly stated, that not only no fault ought to be capable of being proved against the person who asked for
Some hon. Member was understood to deny that such words had been uttered1395Mr. Hume
l said, that it was nearly three years since almost a promise had been given that the state of the Hackney Coach Office should be investigated. Nearly 10,000lMr. Hume
.—"That is very impertinent: but I am glad that these observations will be made public."Mr. Hume
 suggested the propriety of having two columns in the schedule, one to contain the present duties, and the other to contain the alterations which it was proposed to make.Mr. Hume
13411340.—Sir, I am not well aware what course I ought exactly to take on the present occasion, because I have two objects in view upon which I still want explanation; one is, to see if further in formation can be afforded to supply the evidence which appears to me to be wanting here; and the other is to reconcile, if it can be reconciled, the contradictory evidence we have upon our minutes respecting this Bill; for as it stands, it certainly does not warrant us in granting the redress which is prayed. If by adjourning the third reading of this Bill, or by any other course which can be suggested by the hon. Gentlemen who have charge of it, we can obtain these objects,—if there can be any mode supplied of filling up the blanks which exist in the evidence,—I am ready to adopt that mode. I will state to the House what I conceive really to be wanting in the case before us. In the first place, it appears to me that not only has the preamble of the Bill not been proved, but it has been disproved by the evidence: so clearly so, indeed, that I apprehend it to be quite impossible we can pass this Bill while such glaring inconsistencies exist upon the face of its averments. The preamble states, that the parties, up to the time when these discoveries were made, were cohabiting together in a state of connubial happiness. Now, we have it from Miss Steele, in a part of her evidence, that this was not the case; and that Lord and Lady Ellenbo-
13411340Mr. Hume
13521351ll13501349Non miricordoNo, no1348A laugh, as if the Members were surprised at Mr. Hume's simplicity134713461345134413431342 said, that as they were, it appeared, to have no further evidence, and as the hon. Gentleman saw no inconsistency in the discrepancies which he had stated to him, it only remained for him to proceed in his statement of the reasons why he thought they ought not to pass the Bill, and why Lord Ellenborough was not in a situation to be entitled to the redress which it went to confer. He had already shown that the preamble was notoriously contradicted by the facts stated in evidence. The proof was clear, that he and Lady Ellenborough, instead of living together as man and wife, had been for several months occupying distinct apartments, and living as it were separate. The preamble avers that Lord Ellenborough has, by his wife's act, lost the comforts of matrimony, and therefore he hopes Parliament will grant him the relief of this Bill. It is proved most decidedly, that he had not been in the possession of the comforts of which he spoke, and that could be shown by the evidence of the letter marked "Saturday night," without date or post-mark, but which must be supposed to have been written about the time of the separation, and in that there was nothing to show his wife's affections
13521351ll13501349Non miricordoNo, no1348A laugh, as if the Members were surprised at Mr. Hume's simplicity134713461345134413431342Mr. Hume
 explained. He had not thrown any blame whatever upon the manner in which the case had been discussed and settled in the courts below. His observations had extended only to the proceedings of the two Houses of Parliament in taking cognizance of such cases.Dr. Phillimore
1373Dedecus ille domûs sciet ultimus."Nota urbi, et populo, contingat principis aures—"Dum res137213711370 said, the gallant Officer had misunderstood his object; he had not referred to any case as being one similar in its facts to the present case; but he had quoted opinions on cases merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principle of law which was applicable to all cases of this description. The hon. member for Aberdeen had said, that in the Courts below, in which he (Dr. Phillimore) had the honour to practise, no attention was paid to the conduct of the husband in cases of this kind. The facts to which he had just referred afforded, however, a complete refutation of that statement. He would then proceed to advert to the evidence which had been adduced, as to
1373Dedecus ille domûs sciet ultimus."Nota urbi, et populo, contingat principis aures—"Dum res137213711370Dr. Phillimore
13691368' Nec parlium confessioni fides habeatur;'1367"Judex adulterii ante oculos habere debet et inquirere an maritus pudice vivens, mulieri quoque bonus mores colendi auctor fuerit. Periniquum enim videtur esse ut pudicitiam vir ab uxore exigat quam ipse non exhibeat."1366***136513641363 said, he trusted the House would bear with him, while he endeavoured, as shortly as he could, to express the opinions which he entertained upon this case, and in reference to this particular subject. His hon. and gallant friend who had just addressed the House had called upon them to consider this case in their judicial capacity, and he had entreated hon. Members to divest themselves of all political and party feeling in pronouncing judgment upon it. He could assure his hon. and gallant friend, that from the commencement of this investigation he considered it strictly in his judicial capacity, and that he had given to the case, as it proceeded, all the attention which it was in his power to bestow upon it. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, there had been a variety of cases of this description accidentally discussed there, but as it had so happened that he had been employed in the courts below, either for one party or the other in those cases, he had uniformly abstained from offering an opinion either on the one side or the other, when the case came under the consideration of the House. But in this case, he had not been employed either by one party or the other, and he approached the consideration of it, and the circumstances attached to it, with a mind divested of every species of bias or preconceived impressions. In the course of the discussions upon this case, a complaint had been made, and it had been reiterated this evening by the gallant officer opposite, that an unprecedented course had been adopted with respect to this Bill. Now, he would confess, looking at the manner in which this measure had been conducted, that it had been such as to justify what might be considered a devious, but which was certainly a constitutional, course on the part of the House in respect to the Bill. It was to be observed, in the first instance, that in the proceedings which took place in the courts below, there had been no cross examination of any witnesses. It was further observable, that no proceedings had been taken in this case in a Court of Common Law; no verdict had been obtained; and these were circumstances which appeared to him such as called upon the House to exercise more than usual caution and vigilance in passing this Bill, Other circumstances also had oc-
13691368' Nec parlium confessioni fides habeatur;'1367"Judex adulterii ante oculos habere debet et inquirere an maritus pudice vivens, mulieri quoque bonus mores colendi auctor fuerit. Periniquum enim videtur esse ut pudicitiam vir ab uxore exigat quam ipse non exhibeat."1366***136513641363Dr. Phillimore
 thought this one of those general measures which were sometimes adopted to remedy local evils; the evil which it went to cure was not the fault of the law, but of the mode in which it was administered, and showed the bad effects of interfering in any manner, by legislative measures, with the wages of labour.Mr. R. Colborne
13821381 said, that he had never risen to perform a more painful duty than that which was cast upon him by the present Bill. He felt happy indeed to say, that in the few observations he should make, he should have no occasion to make any personal comments or allusions whatever; but he was called upon to express his sentiments in the discharge of judicial functions of a very important nature. Acting with that conscientious feeling on which members of that House were bound to act in all judicial questions, he felt himself bound to say, that the conclusion to which he had come was unfavourable to the relief for which Lord Ellenborough was an applicant. If the principle of divorces adopted by that House be right, if such a principle be allowed, the applicability of the principle to the present case could not, he conceived, be denied. Every Gentleman who had admitted the expediency of passing the Bill, was of opinion that there was a peculiarity in the case by the House being called upon to come to a decision without the usually preceding examination and judgment of a court of law. He implored the House to consider how important it was, that such inquiry should be had, not merely in this, but in every other case of adultery. If a verdict of a jury had been given, by the husband's seeking a pecuniary compensation for his wife's dishonour, the evidence would have been thoroughly sifted, and it would have been competent for the defendant to have. repelled the evidence to prove the adultery, or to have established a case against the plaintiff which might have effected a reduction of damages. He might have proved ill-usage on the part of the husband; he might have proved connivance or collusion, or flagrant immorality and libertinism on the part of the husband, or at least a very high degree of culpable negligence. Whenever a defendant attempted to prove any of these defences, and failed, no such objec-
13821381Mr. Robert Grant
1377ex post facto13761375 said, that in justice to his own feelings he could not, after reading the evidence taken in this case, consent to give a merely silent vote. He begged leave, in the first place, to state, that if there had been any thing unprecedented in the course taken upon this occasion by the House, the peculiar circumstances which surrounded this case had fully justified it, not indeed with reference to the parties concerned in it, but with reference to this being an application for a bill of divorce, unsupported by any verdict obtained in a court of common law. He thought that, without entering into the consideration of whether the parties were high or low, rich or poor, titled or untilled, it was the duty of the House, exercising its functions legislatively and judicially, to make the most complete inquiry into any case which had not that groundwork for a decision which was always afforded by the verdict of a court of justice. He, for one, was of opinion that the House had upon this occasion fully discharged its duties to the public; and though he did not think that the House ought to be at all swayed by reference to the rank of the parties, yet acting in the face of the public, he admitted, that if there were to be any exception to its general rule of not examining evidence in cases of this kind, that exception ought not to be found in cases where the parties were rich and powerful, in order to show that its decision was not mere matter of interest and favour, but founded on the strictest and most impartial examination. So far, then, in justification of their recent mode of proceeding. The House had now the evidence before it, and what was the legitimate inference to be drawn from it? Here he must say, that he entirely dissented from the doctrines which had been advanced by his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen. In
1377ex post facto13761375Mr. Spring Rice
 said, that whatever disputes there might be as to the propriety of granting this divorce, there was no one who disputed that the present law was bad, and that the judicial duty which the House had just exercised must always be most imperfectly performed by them. The conclusion he took to be this—that if they allowed the Session to pass away without making any attempt to remedy the evil, when all admitted its existence, he thought they would not stand well with the country, nor could they be considered as having discharged their duty to their constituents.Mr. S. Rice
 presented a Petition from one of his constituents, named Middlewood, who carried on the trade of a perfumer, and had invented a soap, composed of vegetable matter, which was serviceable in promoting the growth of hair. He wished particularly to call the attention of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the subject. The petitioner complained of the system of Stamp Duties upon Patent Medicines, and stated that he had been fined, and was now under prosecution by the Board of Stamps. This the petitioner represented as a great hardship, and prayed for the revision of those duties.Mr. Huskisson
s said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, perhaps, be good enough at the same time to give the House information respecting another part of this question, in which his constituents were deeply interested. He alluded to the IsMr. W. Smith
1400 had given his vote for the Bill, because he thought that the facts of the criminality had been so distinctly proved. He trusted most sincerely that this mode of proceeding would be speedily altered. He had been scandalized at the House permitting a person of such respectable character as Miss Steele to be brought to that Bar, and there questioned in a manner that seemed to him unnecessary, and if unnecessary, was most discreditable to the House, and that offered a monstrous and detestable affront to female delicacy. That a woman should be exposed to such an examination, merely because she happened to have been in a situation which no woman need be ashamed of having held, was most distressing; and every one must regret, that because the woman, in whose family she had resided, had not performed her duty, it should have become her duty to be placed at that bar,
1400Mr. W. Smith
1389 declared, he had been led to adopt the opinions of the hon. member for Inverness, and would vote against the Bill. He trusted that the House would not shrink from the performance of its duty, however painful. He was not unfavourably disposed towards Lord Ellenborough, or in any manner influenced by the unpopularity of the noble Lord. He had not the honour to know him, and had never taken his conduct at all into consideration, except when a hon. friend of his asked some questions relative to a letter written by that noble Lord. He had then felt it his duty not to approve of that noble Lord's conduct, but that feeling was wholly the result of taking into consideration what was due to the public. Had he felt any prejudice against the noble Lord, he would have absented himself on that occasion. Being sensible, however, of no such prejudice, he had been present at all the proceedings, and the conclusion he had come to was that which he had already stated. As long as the Constitution threw the burthen of deciding cases of that kind on the House of Commons, so long he should think it his duty to pay attention to such bills, and give no vote on them without a
1389Mr. Trant
13801379corpus delictia vinculo matrimoniia vinculo matrimonii.1378a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoro, said, he had no doubt whatever as to the vote he ought to give on that Bill. He had fully considered the evidence, and made up his mind as to his decision. He could not, however, justify it to his own feelings, either as a lawyer or a gentleman, to give a silent vote upon this occasion, especially as he felt convinced that there was not the shadow of a reason for refusing Lord Ellenborough the relief for which he prayed. He regretted infinitely the state of the law on the subject of divorce, but that was no new subject of regret with him, though he should not have raised his voice against the law, had he not felt himself justified by the various objections which had of old time been urged against it, and by the wishes which some of our most able statesmen had uttered for a reformation of it, which had never been carried into effect. He asserted, that so long ago as the reign of Edward 6th, this defect in our law, this miserable divorce 13801379corpus delictia vinculo matrimoniia vinculo matrimonii.1378a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoro,Sir Edmund Carrington
.—I have no hesitation in informing the hon. member for Montrose, that we have no intention to produce further evidence in support of the preamble of this Bill; and indeed, I believe the hon. Member is himself the only Member of this House who docs not think the evidence already adduced sufficient. He was told the other night, that we had all the servants here, if any hon. Member wished for a further examination of them; but he started no doubt of this kind then, and now his whole objection is, that the parties had not slept together as man and wife for a short period,—a circumstance which, he says, is inconsistent with the preamble of the Bill. I do not see that any such inconsistency is furnished by a temporary arrangement of the nature alluded to, while the parties were, living on terms of affection at that time, under the same roof.Sir G. Clerk
.—Sir, I rise to move the Order of the Day for the third reading of Lord Ellenborough's Divorce Bill.Sir G. Clerk
 said, the hon. Member for Montrose had misrepresented him very much. He did say that no person could see the articles that appeared in the public press for a few weeks past without coming to the conclusion that there was a studied attempt to influence the decision of that House. And if he did not know the extraordinary talent for misapprehension displayed by the hon. member for Montrose, he should have been led to believe that the extraordinary perversions which he had displayed before the House that evening were not the result of his having read the evidence, but had been taken from some of these publications. But he supposed that they really did arise from the extraordinary formation of his mind.Sir G. Clerk
 said, he spoke of reports out of doors.Sir George Clerk
13921391 a vinculo matrimonii.1390 said, he could not let the question go to a vote without saying a few words. The hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite objected to the species of remedy, but till the law should be altered, a Bill like this
13921391 a vinculo matrimonii.1390Sir G. Clerk
 gave notice that on the 13th May, he would move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the Duties, Salaries, and Emoluments of the Commissioners of Hackney Coaches; and into the present state of the public Carriages of the Metropolis.Sir. J. Wrottesley
 said, he trusted that the House would do every justice to Lord and Lady Ellenborough and their families by allowing this Bill to pass. After the sentence of the Ecclesiastical Court, the Bill could inflict no evil upon one party, although it might afford relief to the other. Whilst he was this morning at breakfast, reading" the evidence taken at the Bar, a lady of rank and respectability, who was intimately acquainted with Lord Ellen-borough's family, called in upon him, and in the course of conversation, informed him that, to her knowledge, a more tender husband and father than Lord Ellenborough never existed. She said that his only fault was, that he had always been more liberal to his wives than any man should be.Sir John Beresford
14061405 said, he rose for the purpose of putting some questions to his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with reference to a statement which had been made public during the last few days. The statement to which he alluded related to a certain document, called an amnesty, which it was said had been issued, or was about to be issued, by the government of Portugal. According to this statement,
14061405Lord Palmerston
, supported the claims of the West-India Planters to the consideration of the House, and contended that they had as good a right to participate in the benefits of the home consumption as the agriculturists or the distillers, and that they paid a very high price for that participation by the restrictions imposed on them.Mr. Marryat
 did not rise to enter upon the discussion of the question brought before the House. He had had frequent opportunities of meeting both the parties interested on the subject, had heard the question discussed on both sides, and had made such inquiries as he thought proper as to the statements he had received, but he thought it better to defer going into any discussion on the question until he brought his bill on this matter regularly before the House, when an opportunity would occur of going into the whole of the calculations. He only begged hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House to believe that he should propose that bill with no view of favouring either one or other interested party. He had endeavoured by his proposed measure to give them both that fair competition in the market which both had a right to expect. He was not insensible to the importance of the great interests concerned in the subject, but while he remembered what was due to the petitioners, he could not forget the claims of our West-India Colonies, and in his opinion, the home-market ought to be equally accessible to both. The calculations submitted to the House did not seem to him quite correct. The parties interested had, as was very natural, dealt somewhat in exaggeration, and he had no doubt, when the matter came properly under discussion, that he should satisfy all parties of the justice of the views entertained by his Majesty's Government, though, as each party sought a peculiar advantage, he was afraid neither would be contented by those views.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not intend to prolong the present conversation, but rose to bear testimony to the respectability of the signatures attached to the Petition. Whenever the question was discussed, he should consider the interests of Ireland and the Colonies closely connected. He acquiesced entirely in the principles laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he thought it was the duty of the House to discuss the question fairly, and with a view of doing justice to all parties. He wished to obtain no advantage for Ireland, at the expense of the Colonies, but he must at the same time say, that he was not ready to concede to the Colonies new advantages without a full conviction of their being both just and necessary.Mr. S. Rice
dsds1425dss, although one of those interested in the prosperity of the West-Indies, had never wished to support their trade at the expense of either the English, Scotch, or Irish agriculturists and distillers. It was, however, a well known fact, that the distillers had been at all times anxious for a monopoly, which must be at variance with the interests of the community, and although the duty on the Spirits of the Colonies was 8dsds1425dssMr. Bernal
 seconded the Motion, and expressed his surprise that the necessity of having a well-regulated Library had not been, earlier felt by the House. He had been one of the first persons to recommend the formation of a library, and those Members who opposed his views, were now sensible of its utility. He agreed that it was quite proper to inquire if it could not be placed on a more advantageous footing. At the same time, he must bear his testimony to the merits of Mr. Spiller, the Librarian, whose knowledge and attention afforded every possible facility to those hon. Members who wished to avail themselves of the means of information which the Library afforded.Mr. Spring Rice
 expressed his full concurrence in what had been said by the hon. member for Limerick, as to the services of Mr. Spiller; he also agreed with the hon. Member, that it was a matter of great astonishment that such a body as the House of Commons should have gone on, until three years ago, without a. Library. It was not possible, he believed, that such a fact could be stated of any other deliberative assembly.Sir R. Inglis
l observed, that in the whole range of public men, there was not a more meritorious individual than Mr. Spiller. He had not only exerted himself to the greatest degree in the arrangements of the Library, but in the preparation of copious indexes to all the public statutes from 1801 to 1828, which were invaluable for purposes of reference. This latter occupation was not comprehended in Mr. Spider's official duties; and under all the circumstances, the salary of the Librarian, which was only 300lMr. George Dawson
 also bore testimony to Mr. Spiller's merits. He understood there was a large collection of papers belonging to another House, containing important and valuable documents, which were inaccessible and useless for want of an index. If an index could be formed, so that a reference to these important papers could be easily made, it would be a great advantage.Mr. Warburton
l.1429 said, although no one could
l.1429Mr. Hume
, Mr. Secretary Peel, Mr. Spring Rice, Lord Viscount Lowther, Lord Viscount Morpeth, Mr. Littleton, Mr. Cust, Mr. Ridley Colborne, Mr. George Dawson, Sir Robert Inglis, Sir Henry Hardinge, Mr. Williams Wynne, Sir George Clerk, Sir James Graham, and Mr. Courtenay.Mr. Agar Ellis
 said, that it was not his intention to bring in such a bill this Session. The consolidation of the Stamp Acts, which was the consolidation of 152 Acts of Parliament, had been attended with so much labour, that he could not venture to involve himself in a work of similar labour during the present Session. Some progress had been made in the consolidation to which the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded, which would be of use in a future Session of Parliament.The Chancellor of the Excheqeur
 hoped that he was never backward in taking his due share of ministerial labour. At the same time be thought that the House would hardly deem it necessary to have the consolidation of the Stamp Acts, and of the Acts relative to the Assessed Taxes before it at one and the same time. It was not a question of urgent necessity; although desirable, it was not so much so as to make the House submit to the inconvenience of hurrying it forward when there was so much other business before it.Mr. Herries
 said, that he rose with some degree of shame to propose to add six riders to the present Bill. He admitted that the custom of adding riders to bills was one, in his opinion, "more honoured in the breach than in the observance." At the same time he must observe, that the clauses were of a mere formal nature, and did not at all affect the principle of the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Acts relating to the Post-office were now under consideration, and would shortly be consolidated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could give no other answer than that the subject was under consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it was understood yesterday evening that he should, upon this occasion, merely submit to the House the schedule of the Duties to be continued by the new Act, and should defer the explanation of them to the next opportunity. In conformity with that understanding he would merely say that there was no intention, as an hon. Gentleman had supposed, to increase the Stamp Duties in this kingdom. There was much done in the schedule to simplify the mode of imposing- these duties, to give accommodation where accommodation could be afforded, and to diminish the general expenditure of the department. As to the propriety of having two columns in the schedule, one containing the present duties, and the other containing the alterations proposed to be made in them, he had only to say, that in many cases it would be extremely difficult, and in some impossible, to make such an arrangement. Where it was practicable he had no objection to agree to the suggestion. He then moved a Resolution repealing all the existing Stamp Acts, and enacting in their stead the duties contained in a Schedule which he handed to the Chairman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1433 (confirmed by Mr. Hume)stated, on behalf of the people of Ireland and of Scotland, that nothing but a schedule containing the past and the present duties
1433Mr. Rice
 said, that he would pay every attention in his power to the suggestions of the two last speakers. He would bring in the Bill as soon after the recess as possible. At the same time he meant to say, that 152 separate Acts of Parliament, containing a great number of minute regulations, and which were to be consolidated into twelve Acts, gave a great deal of trouble. In the new arrangement also he had attached a schedule to each Act, so that every person might find together the stamps in which he was interested and the law relating to them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d.,sds1434 said, that last Session his right hon. friend near him introduced a bill to prohibit the growth of Tobacco in Ireland, but that bill not being favourably received by the House, it was withdrawn. The measure he meant to propose had for its object to regulate the growth of Tobacco in every part of the Empire, prohibiting it nowhere, but imposing on it a certain rate of duty.
d.,sds1434The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer might and a substitute for the revenue he derived from Tobacco, and then every man might cultivate what he pleased.Mr. Alderman Wood
 would be satisfied if it could be shown that Tobacco could be profitably cultivated, and yield a revenue equal to that at present obtained from Tobacco. He believed, however, that it would be impossible to collect the present amount of revenue from Tobacco grown at home. The opportunities of evading the duty would be numerous, and they would all be taken advantage of.Mr. Warburton
1436a sine quâ non, found it singular that he should be of the same opinion as the hon. Members to whom he was generally opposed. He had no doubt that as to the Revenue, prohibition would have been the safer course, and as he must protect the Revenue, for that was 1436a sine quâ non,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had before argued this point with his hon. friend, and had the misfortune to differ from him. The present rate of duty gave a bonus to Tobacco grown in the Colonies sufficient to encourage its cultivation, while the duty to be imposed at home was only to secure the Revenue. It would be anything but a bonus on the cultivation of Tobacco in England.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that by a Bill to effect Legal Reform, brought in by his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State, there would be a necessity to make certain payments from the Consolidated Fund, and the object of the present measure was, to authorise the appropriation of certain surplus fees to this purpose. The Bill would make no additional charge on the Consolidated Fund. The Chancellor then submitted two Resolutions to the effect that compensation should be made out of the Consolidated Fund to Officers of the superior Courts of Justice, whose legal fees should be reduced by the operation of any Act passed this Session, and the Lords of the Treasury be authorised to purchase the interest of any person in any office or emolument in the superior Courts which may be abolished, the purchase money to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1438 stated, that the measure was necessary with a view to his right hon. friend's bill, but that one of its objects would be to guard against extravagant compensation. On former occasions the reforms made were not complete, and some of the high officers re-
1438The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ds1422dssd would take this opportunity of stating, that he had a similar Petition to present from the Distillers of Corn Spirits in Ireland; it was signed by six or seven of the principal distillers, and conveyed the sentiments of the whole body. He thought it right on this occasion to state, that the Irish distillers had peculiar grievances to complain of, independent of those which they had in common with the English and Scotch. There was great injustice and hardship in the way in which these additional duties were proposed to be levied. The Irish distiller had to pay an additional duty of 2ds1422dssdMr. Brownlow
 said, that as, notwithstanding discussion was generally deprecated at the present moment, every Member who had risen had said something upon the subject, he must be allowed to trouble the House with a few words. Did those hon. Members who talked of the advantage which the proposed measure would give to the West-India interest recollect the sacrifices which that interest had made? Would the Scotch and Irish distillers be disposed to sell at a loss, as the West-India planters had done? It had been said that the consumption of Rum increased last year; but that was to be accounted for by the fact, that the West-India interest had been selling at a considerable loss. That could be satisfactorily proved to the House. The arrangement of Lord Goderich on the subject was an experimental arrangement, the object of which was, to produce and preserve an equal competition. Had it succeeded? No. Let means be adopted then for securing a fair competition in all parts of the empire, and that would be just and satisfactory. To the remark that the British distillers had been put to a great expense by the alteration in their premises, the answer was, that the British distillers continued to be in a very prosperous and flourishing state.Mr. C. Pallmer
, in presenting a Petition, took the opportunity of stating, that he meant soon after Easter to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for the better accommodation of those who report the proceedings of the House. If his motion were agreed to, the result of giving better accommodation to reporters, he was persuaded would be, that more full and more accurate accounts of what was said in that House would be published, and Members would not be annoyed, as they now frequently were, by misrepresentations, which, however unintentional, were injurious to the Members in relation to their constituents. He trusted the House would facilitate so desirable an object, and that his motion would not meet with one dissentient voice.Colonel Sibthorp
1435 would not address himself to the House in its then state: but he should feel it his duty to oppose this provision on the third reading. It introduced a new species of taxation, that was at once inconvenient, oppressive, and expensive, without the probability that it
1435Mr. Poulett Thomson
1423 supported the complaint of the petitioners, and declared, that although he should be sorry to do anything which would prejudice the interests of the West-India proprietors, he was satisfied that they possessed an undue advantage over the British distiller. The subject was one in which he felt great interest, because the agriculturists were well aware that the distillers were among their most useful customers. The great county he represented was therefore much interested in this question, and he did hope that the
1423Mr. Western
 concurred with the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, and he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not lose sight of the agricultural interests. He should have been glad to have seen encouragement given to the West-Indian proprietors, by taking off the duty on sugar, rather than by increasing the duty on British Spirits.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, that if the hon. member for Aberdeen would only wait till their re-assembling after the recess, he would then see that his right hon. friend the President of the Board of Trade had six bills to introduce, though he had not as yet introduced one bill in the course of the present Session.Mr. George Dawson
 rose to move, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act of 7 and 8 Geo. 4th, cap. 54, relating to the levying of the Duties on Malt. The regulations which were contained in the Bill which he proposed to introduce had been agreed upon in certain conferences that had taken place between a deputation of the Maltsters and the Commissioners of the Excise Board; and he therefore supposed this Bill would not meet with any opposition. Amongst other alterations, this Bill would do away with the Barley-book, in which the maltster was obliged to enter the quantity of barley he had taken in each day, the quantity he had on hand, and the quantity he sent out. It also altered the number of days allowed for the sprinkling of barley from twelve to eight days, and it likewise contained an important regulation for the abolition of the certificate system. These regulations would be productive of great advantage to the trade. There was one other important alteration proposed by this Bill. After the process of sprinkling, under the present law, an allowance of 20 per cent was made for the increase. The Excise Commissioners had shown to the maltsters that that was too much, and it was now determined to leave it at 17½. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Malt Acts.Mr. George Dawson
 trusted, that as far as Ireland was concerned, no short-sighted policy would induce the Government to abandon that which afforded the only means of protection to the Irish agriculturist for the consumption of his corn. He contended, that experience since 1825, showed that the Irish distiller needed still further protection than was afforded him by the arrangement made at that period. When the consumption of Rum had increased, it was surely too much to require that two-thirds of the present protecting duty in favour of British Spirits should be done away.Mr. G. Moore
 had heard the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with much pain, as a great many cases of oppression had taken place under the existing laws. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would allow the subject to be referred to a committee, in order that it might examine whether any and what alterations could be made in the present Acts; for sure he was, that an interpretation had been put upon some of them which was never intended by their framers,Mr. Bright
 said, that as a misapprehension had got abroad respecting what had been said last night by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would take that opportunity to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he meant to bring in a bill this Session for the consolidation of the laws relating to the Assessed Taxes.Mr. Bright
 hoped that the duties on insurances, and also on small receipts, would be reduced. He further hoped that the new regulations would enable legal practitioners to act with less uncertainty than now as to the stamps which they ought to employ. The present regulations had caused many cases of intolerable hardship, and he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would do no more than justice, while he would confer a great benefit on many persons, if he introduced a clause declaring that all stamps on executed instruments, though contrary to the regulations of the present Acts, should be held valid and legal. He hoped that the Bill would be brought in as speedily as possible after the holidays.Mr. Bright
 considered the Scotch and Irish distillers as having already an unfair advantage over the English distillers, because the duty was much higher in England than in Scotland or Ireland: these, therefore, had no right whatever to complain. Why the distillers of Scotland and Ireland were allowed to have this advantage over the distillers of England he did not understand. As to the increased consumption of Rum, that was very small in England; while the consumption in Ireland and Scotland had, he believed, fallen off. He was disposed to complain of the Scotch and Irish distillers, who seemed to want the monopoly of the English market: whatever their motive might be, he was confident that their advantages were too great for them ever to be injured by the consumption of Rum in the British market.Mr. Bright
 was of opinion, if the privilege were extended to Canada, that it ought also to be extended to the West Indies. The Colonies there were labouring under great privations, and would be benefitted by such an advantage. We might then defy the Americans, and furnish ourselves with an article of the finest quality.Mr. Bright
ss1419ssds rose to present a Petition from a very important interest in the community—he meant the Distillers from Corn Spirits, who complained, and he thought justly, of the imposition of the additional duty of Is. a gallon upon Corn Spirits, while there was no corresponding additional duty imposed upon Rum. He would entreat the House to bear in mind, that in the year 1825, after due and deliberate investigation on the part of the Government, an arrangement, having all the appearance of permanency, was made between the parties, and which was admitted by Lord Goderich, under whose auspices it was made, fair and equitable. By that arrangement it was fixed that a duty of 8ss1419ssdsMr. Home Drummond
1417The Times,—"If, immediately after I spoke at the moment, the hon. Member had no recollection of my using-such a phrase, although he says he was attentively listening to me, he will easily believe it is very probable I could not have used it. No such expression was, in point of fact, used by me, as directed against him. Certainly, I never could have so far departed from the courtesy which one Gentleman is bound to observe towards another in this House, as to charge him with uttering a notorious and unnatural lie. What I said was, as well as I recollect, that the accusation against Lord Ellenborough, of having connived at his own disgrace was a foul calumny, and I threw back the unnatural he upon the authors of it. I used the plural number, intending the imputation for the authors of those calumnies out of doors, of which Lord Ellenborough had to complain. What I did say last night I find reported with singular, indeed wonderful, accuracy in 1417The TimesSir Henry Hardinge
 presented a Petition, agreed to by a large number of the working Stonemasons of the Metropolis, assembled at the theatre of the London Mechanics' Institution, complaining that their situation was deteriorated, which they attributed to excessive Taxation, and praying the House for the further reduction of Taxation, and the abolition of all Sinecures. The petitioners also prayed the House would take into its consideration the large sums paid to the Bishops, and other members of the Established Church, while the industrious man was reduced to a state of starvation. The petitioners complained that the lordly followers of the meek religion of Christ starved them out of existence. This, the hon. Member said, was a fair subject for petitioning; he cordially agreed with the prayer of the Petition, and hoped, when there was a reformed Parliament—for which the petitioners also prayed—that the large salaries of the Bishops would be reduced, and every man paid according to his labour.Mr. Hume
14161415, on
14161415Mr. Hume
: This Session?Mr. Hume
 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether there was any intention to consolidate the Acts relating to the Post-office. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that such a consolidation was required. In many cases regulations had been made by the Post-office which were not, and could not be, justified by any existing law.Mr. Hume
 also would rather prohibit the growth of Tobacco altogether in this country than adopt these regulations. He thought the duty on Tobacco too high, but at the same time he thought the right hon. Gentleman should be careful, as foreign Tobacco yielded a large revenue, how he permitted the plant to be cultivated at home. The machinery connected with the new scheme would necessarily be open to many objections which deserved serious consideration.Mr. Hume
 was happy to hear that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade was not reluctant to take his share in this labour. He thought that some consolidation of these laws were necessary, because there were as many cases reversed as confirmed in the appeals made to the judges against the interpretation put upon them by the magistrates in the country. It was a toss up whether the magistrates were right or wrong. It was a libel on the body of 600 gentlemen to say that they were not able to take more than one idea into their consideration at a time. Surely they were able to consider in one Session the consolidation of the Stamp Acts, and of the laws relating to the Assessed Taxes.Mr. Hume
 thought that the excuse just made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for not bringing forward a bill for the consolidation of the laws relating to the Assessed Taxes was but a very bad one. If the right hon. Gentleman himself had not time for such labour, his right hon. friend near him (Mr. Herries), who had not introduced any bill this Session, was not equally occupied, and might find time for introducing such a measure.Mr. Hume
l1437 did not wish that any measure of reform should be stopped for want of means to compensate those who might have a vested right in abuses, but he wished to see a return of the greatest amount that
l1437Mr. Hume
 did not concur with his hon. friends who opposed this measure. A new branch of industry was opened, and if that could be prosecuted without injury to the Revenue, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not to be condemned for sanctioning the experiment. Several persons in Ireland had already embarked large capitals in the cultivation of Tobacco, and it would be hard on them to prohibit the exercise of their industry. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that these persons ought to have no claims for compensation should the duty on Tobacco be reduced; but he could not give his consent to any act of absolute prohibition, and he was surprised that his hon. friends, the members for Dover and Aberdeen, should advocate that principle.Mr. Spring Rice
l1427dssdsonus probandi said, so many important interests were involved in this matter, that it deserved to be seriously considered. He conceived that the arrangement made by Lord Goderich, four or five years ago, was to be a permanent one. That arrangement was come to, after an inquiry as full and as extensive as could be had now, and the l1427dssdsonus probandiMr. William Smith
1426 contended, that the increase of the consumption of Rum proved sufficiently that the duty was not sufficient to allow a fair competition. The British distillers did not seek, therefore, as the hon. member for Rochester supposed, an unfair advantage, but to secure to themselves an adequate protection. He was sorry that, while the consumption of Rum had increased, and that of British Spirits decreased, it should have been thought advisable to lay an additional duty on the Spirits manufactured in the three countries. That increase of duty would have the effect of encouraging the crime of smuggling and demoralizing the people. The hon. member for Rochester, was wrong also in supposing that the distillers had no claims on the Government, because the duties were low in Ireland and Scotland; they had there been made low in order to put an end to smuggling, and that the reduction of the duty had accomplished,— but the distillers both of Scotland and Ireland manufactured for
1426Sir G. Clerk
 trusted that the consolidation of the Assessed Taxes Acts would be rendered unnecessary by a total repeal of those taxes in the next Session. They were most unjust and unequal in their operation, and it would therefore be a been to the people to repeal them. At the same time he must observe, that the hon. member for Aberdeen had not at all exaggerated the uncertainty which prevailed as to the proper interpretation of these Acts. Out of 130 cases of appeal against decisions under those Acts, it appeared from a return laid on the Table, that in only 34 cases had the original decisions been confirmed. Under such circumstances it was quite clear that there must be a great deal of injustice committed by means of these Acts. He admitted that the Treasury was generally disposed to afford any aggrieved parties relief, but that did not diminish his wish to have these taxes repealed.Mr. Robinson
ds thought the same duty as was levied in the United Kingdom ought also to be levied in Canada. Tobacco could be grown there as well as in Virginia, and he did not know why the duty of 3dsMr. Robinson
 also suggested the propriety of reducing the smaller receipt stamps.Mr. Robinson
1418l presented a Petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Waterford, against the proposed plan for assimilating the Stamp Duties of England and Ireland. There were two ways, the hon. Baronet said, of assimilating duties; lowering the high ones and raising the low ones; but unfortunately, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as far as his experience went, always took the latter method, and augmented the burthens of the people. By his proposed plan, an addition of taxation, to the amount of 100,0001418lSir John Newport
5 said, he wished to take that opportunity to ask his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, a question or two, which concerned not only the faith of treaties, but the commercial interests of this country. It was well known that the Treaty of Vienna, concluded in 1815, contained certain stipulations concerning the navigation of rivers. Amongst the Acts which formed part of the Treaty, the Sixteenth related expressly to this subject, and contained several stipulations with regard to the Navigation of the Rhine. He would take the liberty of reading the beginning of the first Article, which was quite explicit:—"The Navigation of the Rhine, from its source to the sea, shall be entirely free for all, on the payment merely of the dues which shall be necessary for preserving the police of the river." By these words all the Powers of Europe were entitled to the free navigation of that river. No vessels whatever were to be excluded, nor any duties levied, except such as were necessary for keeping up the police. The King of the Netherlands, however, had resisted that construction of the treaty, and had excluded all vessels from the navigation of the Rhine, by prohibitory duties, except vessels belonging to the Netherlands. In consequence of his conduct, a great deal of discussion had ensued, which was extremely interesting; but notwithstanding that, and notwithstanding the treaty of 1815, the navigation of the Rhine was still closed, except to the subjects of the Netherlands. The Treaty of Vienna had not, therefore, been carried into effect, which was a serious subject, calling for the attention of his Majesty's Ministers. The event had recently received a considerable accession of interest. About a year ago some of the Continental Powers resolved to make a common appeal to all Europe, and in this it was expected that England would take a prominent part. When he quitted office in 1828, he was persuaded
5Mr. Charles Grant
7projet.projetjusqu' à la mer6 stated, that he was willing to follow the example of his right hon. friend, and give a short explanation as well as an answer. In 1815, a treaty was made at Vienna, which he thought, and in this he concurred with his right hon. friend, and all his predecessors in office, intended that the navigation of the Rhine should be open to all nations. A doubt, however, had arisen as to the meaning of the treaty, which was drawn up originally, he believed, in German, and not in French, and the King of the Netherlands contended that the words of the
7projet.projetjusqu' à la mer6Mr. Secretary Peel
projet said, that the convention between Prussia and the Netherlands, mentioned by his right hon. friend, was different from what he described it to be. The projetMr. C. Grant
projet8projet replied, that he had stated what was, he believed, correct. He believed the projet8projetMr. Secretary Peel
 knew that an English vessel had proceeded up the Rhine, but be also knew that there was no disposition to repeat the voyage. The duties levied on her were so enormous, that they destroyed all profit, and no other vessel would make the same experiment.Mr. C. Grant
 said, the Government would protest as strongly against prohibitory duties as against actual prohibition.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that the papers would contain a full statement of the progress of the negotiations, but it should be understood there were circumstances such as the existence of an armistice between the parties, which would take the case alluded to by the learned Gentleman somewhat out of the ordinary law of nations.Mr. Secretary Peel
l.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.d.s.9, in presenting a Petition from the Parish of St. Paul, Covent-Garden, against the unjust and
l.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.d.s.9Mr. Hobhouse
 alluded only to the unredeemed Land-tax; in his opinion, Parliament ought to consider whether or not some more equitable mode of raising the unredeemed Land-tax could be adopted.Mr. Hobhouse
 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Hastingden, in the county of Lincoln, the purport of which he was sorry to say was to represent to the House the great and general Distress which prevailed in that part of the country. Many persons the petitioners represented, had been reduced, by no fault of their own, from comparative wealth and happiness to poverty and destitution. They prayed for a reduction of taxation; but they stated that there was no way of relieving the Distress except the wages of labour were raised, or the price of the necessaries of life much reduced. The petitioners did not look for any rise in wages, owing to the continued increase of machinery; and therefore they thought that the Government was imperiously called on to make a large reduction of taxation so as to reduce the price of the necessaries of life. The clergyman who had forwarded the Petition to him had assured him that the distress of the petitioners was not exaggerated, and that although they had always borne their misfortunes with patience, they had been in a better humour with Government than before, since it had shewn a disposition to diminish taxation. When his Majesty's Government was thus informed that reduction of taxation, both relieved distress, and strengthened loyalty, he trusted that it would go on in the same wise course, and follow up the reductions of this year by still greater reductions hereafter.Lord Stanley
 saw no reason whatever, for continuing the vexatious Inventory tax, which to the people of Scotland was irksome beyond description, and of which they particularly complained, because they only were subject to it. They had long desired to be placed in this respect on the same footing as the inhabitants of England. He had been particularly requested by the people of the north to enforce this view on the attention of the Government, and took that opportunity therefore of doing so.Mr. Stewart
 presented a Petition from the Bankers, Merchants, and other inhabitants of Woodbridge, in the County of Suffolk, praying for the abolition of the punishment of death for the crime of Forgery. The hon. Member observed, that the Petition was most respectably signed; that the circumstance of its being signed by the bankers of the place was one deserving of the attention of the right hon. Secretary of State, and of the House. He knew that the feeling on this subject entertained by the bankers of Woodbridge was very general among bankers throughout the country, and he hoped that the same feeling would be evinced by the London bankers. He trusted that the time was approaching when the punishment of death for any description of Forgery would be expunged from our penal code.Mr. Lennard
 expressed his conviction, that a general impression existed throughout the country that the punishment of death for Forgery ought to be abolished. With respect to protection against the crime, the late alteration in the law, by which a person on whom Forgery was committed was permitted to be a witness in the case, afforded an incalculably greater protection against the crime than any severity of punishment. He was sure that public opinion would go with the right hon. Gentleman if he were to abolish the punishment of death altogether.Mr. Warburton
15s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s. expressed a wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whether he was aware that in consequence of a defect in one of the clauses in the bill on the subject, Timber might be brought to this country from Memel, without paying the duty on foreign Timber, by being first carried to Halifax? He knew that that had been done last year. One or more cargoes of Baltic Timber had, to his knowledge, been imported in that manner into Ireland. By the 10th of George 4th, the Timber, the growth of other countries, might be imported from our Colonies on paying only the small duty imposed on Timber the growth of the Colonies. People had profited by this, and had actually sent cargoes of Timber from the Baltic to Nova Scotia, and had then imported it into this country at an advantage. The evil of this practice, as it affected the regular trader, was very great. The prime cost of Timber in the Baltic was 2015s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.Mr. Warburton
 was glad that the hon. Gentleman had put the question to him, as it afforded him an opportunity of stating what were the intentions of Government on the subject. The hon. Member had described very correctly the defect in the clause of the existing bill, which enabled persons to import Baltic Timber circuitously through Halifax, at a less rate than, owing to the duty which had been imposed for the protection of Timber, the produce of our North American colonies, it could be imported directly from the Baltic. He should be disposed to say, however, that if the existing law were carried into complete execution, he very much doubted if the parties in question could make their venture so successful a one as they had made it, and as, according to the hon. Gentleman's statement, they contemplated making it. He had been asked a question by some of them with respect to one point on which the expectation of making a successful voyage hinged. That question was, whether it would be necessary that a ship should be unloaded at Halifax, and then of course reloaded before her departure for England? If the officers at Halifax did their duty in this respect, he had reason to believe that the expense attending on that operation would very much diminish the chance of any profit arising from the speculation. He now, however, gave notice, that in order to prevent the evasion of what was undoubtedly the intention of the Legislature, he would, immediately after the recess, introduce a bill to remedy the defect in the existing Act, and to prevent any advantage from being taken of it.Mr. Herries
 said, he could not hear what had fallen from the hon. Member that had just addressed the House without rising to say, that he was aware of the facts to which the hon. Member had thought fit to allude, and he could have no hesitation in corroborating the statement which the hon. Member had made. He believed that the hon. Gentleman had proposed to restrain, not enlarge, the powers of the magistracy with respect to certificates.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 intimated, that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman was of such importance, that it ought not to be introduced in so thin a House, and he should avail himself of there not being forty Members present.Mr. Stewart
l.l.l.l.l.22 thought that the course proposed by the hon. Member who had spoken last was altogether unnecessary and objectionable, for the only effect of it would be, to compel the right hon. Gentleman to bring in the Bill on another evening. It was then introduced for the convenience of Members, that they might acquaint themselves with its provisions during the recess. For his part, he could say of himself conscientiously, and without fear of contradiction, that there was not an honourable Member in that House who could regret more forcibly than he did, that reforms and improvements should be effected at the expense of numerous individuals. It was, however, in this case unavoidable. He could not help saying, although he had not intended to take any part in the discussion, that the laws under which the great brewers alleged that they had invested their immense capitals were not laws made for the protection of their trade, or of any trade whatever. They were laws having trade neither for their principle nor object, but made solely for purposes of police. The great brewers of the metropolis had availed themselves of those laws to promote their own interests, finding that, although they were meant for the good government of the poor, and for the decency of society, they might be converted into instruments of profit. He did not mean to say that the brewers had not acted fairly—that they had been guilty of anything improper; but he did mean to assert, that having availed themselves of the state of the laws, they had no right to come down to the House and demand that the laws should be made perpetual. If these laws were bad, if they no longer
l.l.l.l.l.22Sir John Sebright
 said, that it was not the intention of Ministers to extend the Bill now proposed to Scotland. He regretted to say, that from the period of the Session, only one day had been given to draw up the Bill for England, and that consequently, a sufficient lime had not been allowed to prepare the Bill for Scotland. The measure must, therefore, be tried in one part of the kingdom in the first instance; and if it were found beneficial, and to answer its intended objects, it might then be extended to the other.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
27 wished to take that opportunity of stating, that he was decidedly opposed to the principle of the Bill. Its object was, to encourage the cultivation of an article which could not be cultivated without a bounty, or such a reduction of duty compared with the duty on the imported article, as was tantamount to a bounty. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that his efforts had been directed to place the Tobacco grown at home on the same footing as that which was imported. That appeared to him most absurd. The question was, could the English grower compete with the Virginian planter? The attempt was as absurd as the system adopted in
27Mr. Warburton
l.d.s.d.s.d.s. said, the facts were somewhat different from the hon. Member's statement. He accused the measure of being a bounty on the growth of Tobacco, by the difference between the duty of 1l.d.s.d.s.d.s.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d.s.s.28 was of opinion, that this measure gave a bounty to Tobacco grown in this country. He had no wish to impede its cultivation here, but it ought to
d.s.s.28Mr. Hume
 was surprised to hear of the extent to which Tobacco was cultivated in Ireland, and under the circumstances of that country, when capital had been drove from its natural channels, it might perhaps be proper to give it the advantage which this measure would not confer but secure. At the same time, if Ireland were entitled to this indulgence—the colonies to the soil and climate of which the cultivation of Tobacco was congenial, had stronger claims to a similar boon. To the people of those colonies it would be a great advantage—and in their behalf he appealed to the House. He had before called its attention to the subject, but he thought it of such great importance, that he could not do otherwise than again press it on the consideration of the Government.Mr. Bright
 then said, that he would rather agree at once to vote a sum of money to pay them than consent to this measure. He did not know what answer could be made to fishermen and manufacturers who claimed bounty and protection duties if this measure were passed. He considered that it involved a departure from those sound principles which had lately been professed by the Government; and he therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would postpone the measure till after the holidays, when it might be fully and fairly discussed.Mr. Hume
, in the then state of the House, had no option—he was not his own master, and though he could not see what the hon. Member could gain by the postponement, he could not do otherwise than comply with his request.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 intimated, that he did not mean to avail himself of a thin House to enforce his own views, and he should have proposed the postponement though the right hon. Gentleman had been supported by his usual majorities.Mr. Hume
1918 only wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to certain operations of the Bill, which he thought would render it incumbent upon him to modify it. The right hon. Gentleman would certainly have the opportunity of better considering the evidence during the recess; and if he went into it, and saw the very great and important interests alluded to in it, he hoped that he would be induced to modify the Bill very considerably. If any person without any limitations whatsoever, might be allowed to sell Beer by retail, anywhere and any how, without any restriction whatever—for the proposed licensing system would be no restriction—mischief and inconvenience would ensue, of which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be little aware. He begged to be particularly understood as not speaking on the part of
1918Mr. Charles Barclay
20 should defer his observations upon the Bill until the evidence taken before the Committee was duly before the House, but in the mean time he could not refrain from saying, that he could not agree with all that had fallen from his hon. friend who had just sat down. He felt that the brewers were so identified with the licensed victuallers of the metropolis, that any law which affected the one would, as a matter of inevitable necessity, affect the other. His hon. friend very well knew, and, indeed, it was notorious to everybody, that a very great capital was embarked by the great brewers of London with the licensed victuallers, and he wished he could say that the Bill would be beneficial to the former, for if so, they could act with consideration towards others. He believed, unfortunately, that the Bill now introduced by the right hon. Gentleman opposite would prove more destructive to property on a large scale, and more diffusive of ruin to persons not very wealthy, than any measure which the House had ever adopted. The Bill, he was convinced, would cause the absolute ruin of the great body of victuallers, whilst it would destroy the property of the manufacturers of Beer. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that his Bill would admit of no modifications; that his principles could not be carried into operation without effecting the ruin of such great and important interests, and of such very numerous classes? He had hoped that Ministers would have been content with trying one experiment at a time, and would have waited until they had seen the effects of taking off the duty upon Beer before they proceeded to such extensive innovations. He believed that taking off the Beer duty would prove highly beneficial to the public; but he was convinced that ail the benefit from the Chancellor of the
20Mr. Charles Calvert
14 rose to present a Petition from the Bankers and Inhabitants of the Town of Witham, in Essex, praying that the punishment of death in cases of Forgery might be abolished. He was able to say, having presented several petitions on this subject, that a great body of his constituents were averse to the punishment of death for this crime, and wished to see it abolished. He concurred with them in thinking that it ought to be abolished for the crime of Forgery; but he went further, and thought that there were many other cases in which it was now improperly inflicted. He was very much inclined to doubt if any legislators or rulers had a right to take away life from an individual in any case of crime in which the life of the suffering or offended party had not been put in danger. Many writers of great and deserved celebrity had maintained this opinion. He trusted that the whole of the penal code would undergo a further consideration. He was convinced that secondary punishments might, in point of preventing crime, be made more efficacious as an example than death. Solitary confinement might be applied in a manner most effective to its object, whilst it might be deprived of those objections that had been urged against it. He could not conceive that any danger could arise from vesting a discretionary power in the visiting magistrates, or the governors of gaols, as to solitary confinement. There was no danger in giving a discretionary power to mitigate punishment; though there might be, and the Legislature could not be too cautious in granting it, in a power to inflict punishment. He stated this, because he had paid great attention to the subject, and he believed that the aversion to inflict-
14Mr. Western
, in the present stage of the proceedings, would only avail himself of the opportunity of saying, that whatever opinions might be entertained of the Bill, he was extremely glad that it was not the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to extend it to Scotland. He did not think that it was requisite to interfere with the system at present prevalent in Scotland, nor that it would be deemed expedient, upon any pretence, to introduce such a bill as the present; for, in point of fact, the evil so much complained of in England—the monopoly of the Beer trade—had never existed in that part of the kingdom. Since he had risen he might be excused if he availed himself of the opportunity of briefly referring to a gross misrepresentation that had gone abroad respecting his conduct. It had been said, that he was the author of a bill which introduced into Scotland for the first time the evil of the English system of a monopoly of the Beer-trade. He denied that he was the author of any such measure. The Act he alluded to, the 9th of his present Majesty, gave magistrates a great power over brewers' certificates, the clause having been copied from the Act of 44 Geo. 3rd. The only alteration he had proposed was, to restrain the power of the magistrates, which, in the general opinion of the country, in which he fully agreed, had formerly been too unlimited. In making this declaration he was aware that he was speaking in the presence of many hon. Members who must have a recollection of all that had taken place, and would contradict him if he spoke erroneously.Mr. H Drummond
13 said, that he had received two letters on the subject—extracts from which he would take the liberty of reading to the House. The first was from a highly respectable clergyman at Glasgow, where a petition had been prepared, signed by all the bankers and respectable merchants in that city, praying for the abolition of the punishment of death for Forgery. The words of his correspondent were:—"The bankers, to a man, have been favourable; I am given to understand that there is scarcely a banker in town (if, indeed, there be even one), who has not been in circumstances in which he has forborne to prosecute rather than expose the offender to the certainty, or even the risk of death; and this forbearance has been exercised sometimes in circumstances of an aggravated nature." The other letter to which he alluded was from a banker at Newcastle. The writer said, "I now wish to offer you my testimony on the subject of Forgery, in confirmation of your sentiments expressed in the House. My mind has long been distressed with the present law. I gladly embraced the first opportunity to do what I could for its alteration, and lately took some pains in forwarding a petition from here, praying that in all cases the penalty should be short of the forfeiture of life. The leading partners of the banks in this town signed it, under the practical conviction that the severity of the law was not a protection to us, but tended to increase the crime. I also called on our principal merchants, who concurred in the same sentiments, and signed it. This opinion maybe said to be universal in this district." He (Mr. F. Buxton) objected to the punishment of death for Forgery, on the grounds stated in his correspondent's letter, and he also objected to it on higher grounds. He thought the legislature had no right to take away the life of any man for an offence against property. He was sure that a strong wish existed among the bankers, and other respectable classes of
13Mr. F. Buxton
2524l.23 could not suffer what had fallen in the course of the discussion to pass unnoticed, particularly as allusions appeared to have been made to the sentiments he had uttered, and to the line of conduct which, upon this occasion, he had thought it his duty to pursue. In the first place, he must repel the insinuation, that in any stage of the proceeding, or upon any occasion, he had ever said anything, or pursued any course, that could induce anybody to conceive that he had adopted the monstrous notion that the law was intended for the benefit of the brewers. There could not be any doubt that the law was passed for the advantage of the public, as a means of preserving order and decency among the lower classes of the community, The
2524l.23Mr. Fowell Buxton
1716 said, that being Chairman of the Committee appointed to inquire into the state of the laws respecting the Retail Sale of Beer, it was his duty, by the direction of the Committee, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the privilege of selling that ar-
1716Mr. Calcraft
26 said, that he did not intend to enter at any length into the merits of the Bill, or into the mode of introducing it, for future opportunities would present themselves for all such considerations. He merely intended to confine himself to a few observations which had fallen from the hon. Member on the Ministerial Bench (Mr. Home Drummond). That hon. Member had not, in the slightest degree, impugned the principles of the Bill, or found the slightest fault with any of its provisions. He evidently intended to support it without objection or amendment; and yet he had risen in his place to express his hope that it should not extend to Scotland. This was incomprehensible to him; and he was not a little surprised that hon. Members should venture to utter so much of what seemed to him incomprehensible. If this measure were good for England, he was not aware why it should not extend to Scotland; at least it was for the hon. Member to show some substantial reason why a measure, which he acknowledged to be good for one part of the kingdom, should not be applied to the other. He agreed with the hon. Member, that the evils felt in England under the existing law were not so severely felt in Scotland, although this arose from causes extraneous to the law, but still there was a great case of hardship in that country. The hon. Gentleman was perfectly right in his efforts to put the Magistrates of Scotland under some control, for they needed it; but it was more easy to convince him of this, than persuade him that any reason existed why a Bill, founded upon such sound general principles, and expected to be bene-
26Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.11, in presenting a Petition from the Provost and Magistracy of Brechin, complaining of the Stamp Duties on Inventories, said, that this was the ninth or tenth Petition he had presented during the last three years on the same subject. Nothing could be more vexatious than the manner in which these duties were levied in Scotland, for they took an inventory of every article of a deceased person, even to a night-cap, and that, too, before the body was removed from the house, if the property amounted
l.l.l.l.11Mr. Hume
10 was of opinion that the Parliament ought not to interfere in this case. In many places the Land-tax had been redeemed, and the House had no right, after one person had redeemed his share of the Tax, to call on him to pay a part of his neighbour's share who may not have
10Mr. Hume
 took the opportunity to express a hope that the papers respecting the state of the negotiations on the subject of Greece, which were shortly to be laid on the Table of the House, would contain a satisfactory explanation of the cause of the Blockade of Prevesa, and those other events which were now so much a matter of conjecture. The imputation that Great Britain had been guilty of a violation of that law acknowledged throughout Europe, and which she had expended so much blood and treasure to uphold, ought to be removed.Dr. Phillimore
4, in presenting a Petition from the Licensed Victuallers of Sutton in Ash field cum Stuck wall under Huthwait, and other places against the proposed alteration of the Licensing System observed, that the subject was of great importance, both as affecting a large body of respectable tradesmen, who, shaping their operations by the existing law had invested considerable capitals in their business, and the public at large. He was opposed to the contemplated alteration because he thought, whatever evils might result from the present system, they were susceptible of being remedied without inflicting an injury on a large class of industrious men. The alteration proposed would, if carried into effect, instantly deteriorate the property of all Licensed Victuallers, many of whom had paid large sums for their business, while many of them had made that business by many years of uninterrupted labour, and un intermitted care. The petitioners also say, which in his opinion was well worthy of the attention of the House, that under the present mode of granting licenses, the magistrates exercise a salutary control over this class of tradesmen, and over the management of their houses and business, which is in the highest degree useful to the public. Its moral advantages were great, and they would be entirely thrown away if every man, on the payment of a trifling sum of money, be entitled to a license as a matter of course. He felt grateful, and was anxious to express his gratitude to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the remission of taxation already granted, but he begged leave to suggest to him that it would be far better to repeal the Malt than the Beer duties, which encourage domestic
4Mr. Sadler
12 said, that he knew a respectable banker, who having several years ago been obliged to prosecute an individual for Forgery, and having failed, after a conviction had taken place, in his efforts to save the life of the prisoner, he declared that henceforward nothing should induce him to institute a similar prosecution, and that he would rather lose his entire fortune than be the means of taking away the life of any man for such an offence. This banker also told him that such were the sentiments
12Mr. Trant
d.s. presented a Petition from the Merchants, manufacturers, and Dealers in Tobacco in Bristol, against the measure for imposing so small a duty as 1d.s.Mr. Hart Davies
 presented a Petition from the Bankers, Traders, and other inhabitants of Royston, praying for the abolition of the punishment of death in cases of Forgery.Mr. N. Calvert
36 would take the opportunity to express his satisfaction at seeing the number of petitions coming in from such quarters for the mitigation of the severity of the forgery laws. It was most gratifying to observe, that those persons who had formerly thought it their interest to oppose any such measure, and more particularly the traders and dealers in a paper currency, were now becoming generally favourable to it. The bankers throughout the country were reviewing their former opinions, and getting gradually rid of the prejudice which had hitherto induced them to suppose that the punishment of death, in cases of forgery, afforded security and support to the credit of a paper currency. He had, within the last week, occasion to look through a very extensive correspondence upon the subject, from various parts of the country, and from persons situated as he had described, and he should soon have to present several petitions from bankers and traders, in which they express their con-
36Mr. Brougham
 had no objection to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member. The discussion, as he proposed, might be taken in the committee; he wished, however, then to remark, that in proposing to reduce the number of cases to which the punishment of death should be applied, his bill did not go to create any new capital punishment. The principle of his bill was a consolidation of the criminal law with regard to forgery. For the convenience of hon. Members, he should not object to a postponement of the discussion upon the bill for a fortnight, but certainly not to a more distant period. The bill might now be read a second time, and the discussion would take place in committee upon the clause for retaining the punishment of death in certain cases of forgery.Mr. Secretary Peel
 had no objection to that arrangement, on the understanding that no Member was pledged to the principle of the bill by not opposing the second reading of it.Sir James Macintosh
38 would not oppose the Motion for the petitioners being heard against the Bill, but he merely rose to say, that this was a case of great hardship, in which a gentleman of advanced age and reduced fortune had been for thirteen years a suitor in the Court of the Directors, and in that House, for redress, on account of losses which he had suffered in consequence of the malversation of one of their public officers in India. At the same time, he could not recall to mind without great pain, the share which he had in creating that delay, and he should not willingly consent to postpone the Bill any further, so as to cut away the probability of it being passed during this year. In every thing short of that delay, he should be most happy to consult the convenience of the hon. Member who had just spoken. He candidly confessed that he wished to have this Bill sent up to the Lords before that period when a general massacre of all bills was committed by their Lordships on account of the old age of the Session. He had first thought of postponing the discussion of the Bill till Wednesday
38Sir J. Macintosh
41 expressed his satisfaction that a clause of the kind under consideration had been introduced into the Bill, because it involved that great principle of population which the House must sooner or later be called on to take into consideration. He was very much obliged to his hon. friend for having introduced the clause. The question the House would have to consider would be, the relation between the capital of the country and its population; between the means of employment, and the number of labourers, with a view of making them equal, and keeping one from outgrowing
41Mr. Wilmot Horton
4342 said, he thought Gentlemen who objected to this clause on the score of inhumanity, and who stated that it was unexampled in legislature—who, like the hon. member for Cricklade, had taken the Bill into his hands for the first time that evening, must be quite unacquainted with the fact, that the House had actually passed a bill with this clause in it, or one precisely similar in principle, in 1816. That bill was lost in another place. He did not mean, however, to state that the House, having before given its consent to such a measure, was then bound to support this clause. In fact, he could not vote for it, and he would state why: he knew that by the 43rd of Elizabeth, the overseers had the power of setting an able-bodied pauper to work, but they could not set his infant children to work; and as they were bound to give the means of supporting the children, they gave it to the father, being unable to give it to the children, so that for the maintenance of his children, though not on his own account, he did in fact obtain the money. To obviate this, it was proposed to establish institutions where pauper children were to be fed, and clothed, and educated; but he thought such a system could never be effected, because it broke through all those ties that nature imposed. It had been said, indeed, that the children of the rich were thus separated from their parents; but every one must perceive the difference between the master of an institution where the children were on principle taught to look to others than their natural protectors, and those nurses and schoolmasters whom the rich employed to bring up their children, and whose interest was most closely
4342Mr. Frankland Lewis
 said, that he took shame to himself that he had not before made himself acquainted with the Bill. He had only read it after he had entered the House, and he must say, that he never remembered so improper an instance of legislative interference. The hon. Member who brought in the bill assumed that the poor married because they knew that their children would be provided for. He did not believe that assumption to be well founded; but if it were, he took the readiest method to encourage them to do so, for he expressly declared by this clause, that their children should be educated and provided for, though separated from themselves. The clause was not only objectionable on the score of cruelty, it was also impolitic, and would not answer the only end for which it was proposed. He should most certainly object to that clause, and unless it were omitted, he should oppose the Bill altogether.Mr. Robert Gordon
40 said, no person who was at all acquainted with the country, and with the habits and manners of the people, could support such a clause. The Gentleman who had introduced it could not, he was persuaded, know anything of the people he attempted to legislate for. He believed that it would promote early mar-
40Mr. Cripps
 was anxious to preserve a moral check upon the poor man, in order to prevent his marrying until he was in a situation to maintain a family. At pre-sent, if a labourer married, he knew that his children must be supported by the parish, if he could not support them him- self. The principle of separating parents and children had been adopted in a clause already approved by the Committee, so that, if it were now objected to successfully, the Bill must be re-committed, in order to remedy the discrepancy. The Bill did not at all deprive the pauper of relief; it only declared that the relief should be given entirely as the parish thought fit, and not partly in a weekly allowance in money, and partly in educating and feeding his children. He was anxious that the Bill should be made prospective, and if it were rendered so he should give it his decided support.Mr. W. Horton
47 said, that if he thought the effect of his Bill would be to depress instead of elevating the character of the poor of this country, he would abandon it at once and instantly. He had read every report of every committee, and every work of reputation on the subject, and founding himself upon them, he had brought forward this Bill, in the hope of remedying acknowledged and existing abuses. After investigating all parts of the question, the committee, of which he had the honour to be Chairman, had come to the almost unanimous determination, that it was necessary to face the evil and to point out a remedy. That remedy was the Bill before the House, and he had proceeded cautiously, but steadily and firmly, in endeavouring to bring it into operation. The abuses of the Poor-laws were not, as some supposed, general; they were confined very much to the south of England, for in the North they were very beneficial in their operation. In the last Session an objection had been taken by the right hon. member for Ashburton (Mr. S. Bourne), and in order to obviate that objection, certain clauses were introduced, not recommended by the committee; but on the authority of the right hon. Chairman of the Committee of 1817, who had published one of the most valuable reports ever laid upon the Table of Parliament. The object of the present Bill was, to restore some parts of the south of England to the present condition of the North, as related to the maintenance of the poor. The magistrates of the south, in the teeth of the law, and acting upon a mistaken notion of humanity and benevolence, had apportioned the relief of the poor by the price of bread, and this principle had been introduced into about sixteen or seventeen counties. The effect had been in all those situations to degrade the poor, and to render them indifferent and dependent, while in the north of England, where no such practice prevailed, they were still independent, honest, and industrious. All that he asked was, that by this Bill a wholesome uniformity might, in this respect, be established. The hon. member for Radnor (Mr. F. Lewis) had contended, indeed, that the admitted evil was so extensive, that no remedy could be applied to it; but he (Mr. Slaney) hoped that this measure, if adopted, would accomplish
47Mr. Slaney
l48 gave the hon. Member credit for the ability and perseverance he had shown upon this subject, although he was convinced that it would be impossible to carry the Bill into effect, even if it were passed. He maintained that in Gloucestershire the magistrates had no choice but to regulate the degree of relief by the price of bread. No comparison could fairly be instituted between the South and. the North of England, inas-
l48Mr. Cripps
515049 said, he was sorry that there had not been a preliminary discussion—that they had not discussed the principle of the Bill before they went into committee upon it. At present, instead of paying all that attention to the clauses which it was the practice of the House to pay in committees, they had occupied themselves chiefly with discussing the principle of the Bill; thus reversing the usual course of business, by leaving to the third reading the arrangement of the clauses, and occupying the time of the Committee with that which ought to be done at the third reading. He wished, therefore, that the hon. Mover would endeavour, in the Committee, to render the Bill as perfect as possible according to his own conception, and then let it take its fate on the third reading. The hon. Gentleman had expressed his readiness to do all in his power to meet the views of Members, and so to frame or alter the Bill as to obtain general support: in doing so, he more indulged his own good nature than did what was calculated to promote the success of the Bill. He really thought that the object of the hon. Member would be best effected by making the Bill as perfect as possible, according to his own conception, and not by endeavouring to accommodate it to the fancies of every hon. Member. Though he saw
515049Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought that many of the objections to the Bill would be obviated, if it were distinctly understood that its regulations were to be prospective. It was proposed to fill up the blank in the clause then under discussion with the words "four years," thus giving to the Overseers and Churchwardens the power objected to only over the offspring of the parties who might marry four years after the Bill was passed.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 opposed the Motion, upon the grounds that the House had agreed to hear counsel against the Bill, and he had that evening, at eight o'clock, received a letter from Mr. Adam, the counsel, stating that he was unable to attend.Mr. Daly
 pressed the Motion. He thought, in the first place, whatever inconvenience it might be to a counsel to attend at the Bar, that should not be held as a sufficient reason for stopping the progress of a public bill; and secondly, he thought the case was not one in which counsel should be heard at all, because there was only one petition opposed to the prayers of a great number. He farther contended, that when the whole Bar of England was open to a man's choice, he had only himself to blame if he were left in any difficulty by the absence of a single person. He, for one, would move, "that the Speaker leave the Chair."Mr. S. Rice
 produced the letter, and declared he was not to blame. He saw Mr. Adam after receiving that intimation, and he had repeated the contents of that communication to him.Mr. Daly
 observed, that Mr. Adam had been in the House of Lords that evening.Mr. S. Rice
 observed, it had been decided by the House, that counsel should be heard. The question then to be considered was, if the absence of Mr. Adam was sufficient to authorize a postponement.Sir G. Hill
55 remarked, that counsel might equally well be heard on the report,
55Mr. S. Rice
 asked if the hon. member for Limerick would say that Mr. Adam did speak in the House of Lords that night?Mr. Daly
 thought they should not postpone the consideration of a public measure upon the simple assertion that it would be inconvenient for a counsel to attend. The principle would be highly injurious, as there was no public bill which might not be stopped if such excuses were suffered to prevail.Mr. W. Wynn
 said, he apprehended that the petition was not opposed to the principle, but to certain clauses of the Bill; and he thought his hon. friend was not liable to the slightest blame. He had, at a late hour that very evening, received a letter from the counsel, stating that his state of health was such that he could not attend. And what was he then to do? He could not get another at that time, although he might certainly have previously chosen from the whole Bar of England. He considered that the hon. member for Limerick had a right to call upon the House to proceed with the Bill after such a manner as would prevent the possibility of any obstacles being thrown in its way that might have the effect of checking its progress for the Session, and he accordingly believed it would be well if his hon. friend acquiesced in permitting the Bill to go through this stage, upon the understanding that counsel should be heard upon the report; so that if a sufficiently strong case against any of the clauses were made out, his hon. friend might have the opportunity of moving the recommitted of the Bill, and thus be placed in the same situation in which he now stood. He would therefore submit, that the Bill should now be suffered to go on, upon the understanding that counsel should be heard on Wednesday next, when the Report might be brought up.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that the petition was against the principle; he did not, accordingly, see how the Bill could be recommitted. He, however, was willing to agree to the arrangement.Mr. S. Rice
 having expressed his satisfaction in the arrangement, the Bill was passed through a Committee, and the Re port ordered to be received on Wednesday; counsel to be heard against it.Mr. Daly
 rose to move the second reading of this Bill. He explained that it was his intention to remodel the Bill, so as to confine it to the first of the two objects it proposed to embrace, namely—a provision for Deserted Children, and an abolition of the Foundling Hospital. The other point, which was a favourite one with himself, he proposed for the present to abandon; and this he did the more readily, because there was a committee then sitting above stairs, which would, in all probability, take the subject into consideration, and make some suggestion respecting it. He trusted, therefore, that as he had divided this Bill under separate heads, he might have it now read a second time without opposition. He acknowledged that there would be great difficulties in the way of this second division of the Bill, which referred to illegitimate children, and therefore he had proposed it for further consideration.Lord F. L. Gower
52 said, that the Bill did no more than make that practice legal which was at present carried on every day without law. The practice, it was said, also, would be inconvenient; but in fact it was now done without any inconvenience. In many parts of the country, as he knew the paupers were employed in gravel-pits, or at any suitable work for the joint benefit of those who were obliged to support them, and they received sufficient wages. He did not see any difference between such cases and what the hon. Member proposed to accomplish by his Bill. On the whole, he thought that the measure would be beneficial to the paupers, and though there might be some difficulties in carrying it
52Sir T. Fremantle
 gave the hon. Member who brought in the Bill every credit for his meritorious exertions, but he thought the hon. Member was legislating on effects, not on causes. The practice prevailing in the north might be a very good practice there, but it might be a very bad one for the south, unless the conditions of the two were the same. The hon. Member appeared to him to have lost sight of one thing: there was a manufacture at one time in the south, which was removed afterwards into the north. At that time the population of the north was small, that of the south was large. The population of the north, it was true, had increased, but so also had the manufacture; while in the south, the manufacture was lost, and the large population remained to be provided for. Under such circumstances, what could be done but to get the farmers to employ as many as they could, and make those who contributed to the rates provide for the rest. He agreed that this system had a tendency to lower the rate of wages, but what else could be done? Many other circumstances too, such as the intervention of a person between the labourer and his employer, and the law of settlement, had been overlooked by the hon. Member. He did not think the plan would answer the object proposed, and he was afraid it would entail a great increase of expense on parishes. He therefore must oppose it.Mr. Estcourt
53 said, that the hon. Member who spoke last had made out a strong case in favour of the Bill, by admitting that the law was deviated from in the south, and by admitting also the injurious effects of such deviation. Wherever the practice prevailed against which the Bill was directed the poor were ill off, and where it was not found they were well oft". As to the manufacture which the hon. Member said had been transferred from the south to the north; what manufacture, he would ask, had Sussex ever had? And yet Sussex was lowest in the scale. What manufacture had Kent ever had? Wiltshire, it was true, had once a manufacture, but the fact was, that the mischiefs were the greatest in districts which were, and ever had been, merely agricultural districts. Thus in the county of Sussex, exclusively an agricultural county, young men of eighteen or twenty made no scruple of
53Mr. Slaney
 said, the hon. Member was too hasty in supposing that he agreed with him in all the clauses of the Bill, because he did not object to them at present. He was anxious, however, to reserve any expression of opinion until he saw how the hon. Member proposed to carry his plan into effect, and he therefore hoped the Bill would go to a third reading.Mr. Secretary Peel
 declared, that nothing should induce him to relax in his exertions to prevent the Bill from passing into a law. Even the reservations in the Bill were more injurious than would be the abolition of the Usury Laws altogether. His hon. friend proposed to exempt mortgages from the operation of the Bill. If money were lent on mortgage for more than five per cent, the borrower might bring the case into a court of law, and the lender could not recover more than five per cent. But of what advantage would that be to the borrower? For although the lender could not recover more than five per cent, he might recall the mortgage. Was the present a proper moment at which to bring forward such a proposition? If any interest in the country were at the present moment in a prosperous state, it was the monied interest. The low price of every article, the change that had taken place in the currency, had all been favourable to the capitalist, yet at such a time his hon. friend proposed to allow the capitalist to take what might be considered as unlimited interest. If it were true that the time for such a change was inexpedient as respected the state of the monied interest, it was still more true, that it was inexpedient as respected the state of the agricultural interest; oppressed as that interest was with want of confidence, and with other difficulties, which his hon. friend's Bill must tend to enhance. All bills of this description had hitherto had an unfortunate termination; and he would venture to prophesy that this measure would share the fate of its predecessors. As he was persuaded that the sooner it was got rid of the better, he should certainly divide the House upon the present Motion.Mr. Heathcote
58 regretted that his hon.
58Mr. Gordon 
62 said, he had never been an advocate for the total repeal of the Usury Laws; but now, on further consideration, he doubted whether they ought not to be altogether repealed. At all events, however, they needed alteration; and then the question was, what that alteration ought to be. He agreed with the noble Lord, that if ever there was a happy moment for the alteration, the present was that moment, the interest on money being not above two per cent. To allow men to ask twenty when they would be obliged to lend at two, did not certainly appear to be a very great evil. With regard to mortgages, parties generally undertook to pay legal interest, and generally were enabled to borrow money at that rate, the evasions which occurred being only exceptions to the general rule. If, therefore, they should have a law, making the legal interest recoverable in a court of justice upon such contracts five per cent, the great majority of mortgages in this country would still be effected at that interest. If the House were not prepared to do that, and the matter were left open, the interest would be generally taken at the market price. The great evil of the Usury Laws was felt in times of pressure: and he must admit, that it fell heaviest upon those whom they were intended to favour. With these sentiments he should not divide against the Bill, though he did not think that it was one which would ever pass into a law. The learned member for Clare had adverted to that which had been long felt as an injurious consequence of the present Usury Laws—the cutting down of contracts which, perhaps, had been drawn up under the direction of the best lawyers, and where it was afterwards discovered that the interest taken was illegal.
62The Solicitor General
l.l.63 said, that he thought this Bill should fix a certain rate of interest for some transactions, by which a jury could be guided in their verdicts when such cases came before them; the Bill should, for instance, fix a rate of interest, say four, or five, or six per cent, where no specific contract had been made, as in the case of a bill of exchange, which, it is always supposed will be paid, up to the last day, when, if not paid, interest commences upon it. That rate of interest should be specified by the law. He, from the first time he had considered the subject, had always been an advocate for the repeal of the Usury Laws, and he
l.l.63The Altorney General
65, in rising to move for a Select Committee on this subject, said, that this mode appeared to him to be the best and most unobjectionable one of providing for the old servants of the public. Till this system was adopted, they were either obliged to employ incompetent persons, or to keep back a portion of the salaries of persons as they came into office: but these modes he thought very objectionable. At all events, the appointment of a committee on the subject was very desirable, as in that case the circumstances would be looked into by those who were best able to judge of the matter, and who would propose to the House such alterations as were best calculated to prove beneficial. After the failure of the bill of the Session before last, which he had submitted to the House, the Government could do no more, till it found a spirit of economy reviving among hon. Members, and a disposition to allow the Government to carry into effect the recommendations of the Finance Committee. The Government had done all that was in its power. It had made a deduction from the salaries of all persons appointed since that recommendation, in order to form a superannuation fund. His object, therefore, in going into the committee would be, to inquire into what ought to be done in regard to those offices and salaries already in existence, and which were held before the recommendation. With a view to regulate those offices which might be hereafter created, or those appointments which might be hereafter made, he had a bill prepared, which he did not mean however to bring in till after the Committee had examined the subject. The Committee would then have the opportunity of examining the whole subject, and, according to its report, some permanent system of legislation might be established. It was not becoming the Legislature, to go on year after year, making new regulations on such a subject. It was due both to the public and individuals, that the whole matter should be regulated on some general principle, it was not right to enact a law one Session and repeal it the next; and it would be equally beneficial to the public and just to the individuals, to settle the principles on which every man entering the service hereafter
65The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.66 said, he never was more surprised in his life than he was at hearing the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. The House would probably do him the justice to recollect that he had, a short time before brought forward a Motion on this subject, founded on the admitted fact, that a half-pay officer, on accepting a civil situation, was obliged to give up his half-pay; while an officer on full pay, on accepting such a situation, was allowed to retain all his emoluments. He had then mentioned several instances of the latter, and he had proposed, as an equitable rule, that officers on full pay should be subject to the same restrictions as officers on half-pay. He had withdrawn that motion in consequence of the right hon. member for Liverpool suggesting, that the whole subject ought to undergo inquiry and revision, and that if nobody else undertook the matter, that right hon. Gentleman stated that he would himself bring it before the House. He wanted to know, then, why the question of officers on full pay accepting civil situations was not included in the Motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer: and he was unfeignedly surprised that it was not included. Now finding, contrary to his just expectations, that it was not noticed at all, contrary too he thought, to the promise given by the right hon. member for Liverpool, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, if he would allow him to move an instruction to the committee, to extend its inquiries into the conditions on which officers on full pay, accepting civil situations, should receive their emoluments. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would permit him to move that the committee be instructed to inquire into the expediency of persons in the Military and Naval service,
l.l.66Mr. Robert Gordon
 objected to the Motion. He had no wish to deny that it related to a subject of great importance, and well worthy of the consideration of the House. He objected to it, however, because it was not necessarily connected with the object he had in view. He had given no pledge to the hon. Member. The only pledge which had been given was, that the whole subject of superannuations and pensions should be inquired into,—and to redeem that pledge, his present Motion had been brought forward. The hon. Member might submit a motion on the subject of his instruction to the House, and it was well worthy of separate consideration; but he could not consent to the present committee entering into the inquiry proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was move surprised, even at the opposition of the right hon. Gentleman, than he was at his omission. He had withdrawn his own Motion, on a distinct understanding that the Government would propose an inquiry—and now he found, not only, that it would not propose such an inquiry, but that it would not allow him, on a very fit and proper opportunity, to enter into it.Mr. R. Gordon
37 presented a Petition
37Mr. C. N. Pallmer
57 wished to postpone the discussion on the second reading of this Bill; but the sense of the House was evidently against it. The hon. Member then proceeded to say, that in the present Bill he had endeavoured to meet the objections which had been made to the measure he had introduced last Session. These objections were directed to two points; namely, that in borrowing upon the security of real property, great inconvenience arose from persons tying themselves down to the payment of a rate of interest from which they were never afterwards able to relieve themselves; and secondly, that young men of good expectations were in
57Mr. Poulett Thomson
60 was not surprised that the Bill should be supported by the laity; but should have been exceedingly surprised if any lawyer had supported a measure which contained so gross an inconsistency as a repeal of the Usury Laws, while it preserved a clause, which allowed a contract to be made for unlimited interest, but permitted the borrower to bring
60Sir C. Wetherell
 said, that the Bill had been very much mistaken; and that, far from inflicting any hardship, it conferred a boon upon the poor, He looked upon it in a very different light from the hon. Baronet. By the law as it stood, the overseer might take the child of a pauper when it was nine years old and put it out as an apprentice; and all which this Bill did was to allow the overseers to take the child at an earlier period, making it, by education, more fit for the purpose of being bound to some trade.Mr. C. Wood
 supported the prayer of; the Petition, and declared that the duty would annihilate the cultivation of Tobacco in Ireland.Mr. O'Connell
61 rose, in answer to the assertion of the hon. and learned Gentleman that no lawyer would be found to support the Bill. His only objection to it was, that it did not go far enough; he wished to see the Usury Laws abolished entirely. All attempts to put a maximum price upon any commodity—and money was a commodity—were absurd. Laws of that description could not be executed; they had never been executed. He had known instances in Ireland in which annuities of fourteen, fifteen, or eighteen per cent had been granted for money, when, if there had been no violation of the law, eight or nine per cent would have been the utmost that would have been given for it. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that the cases of persons suffering from the law as it at present stood was extremely rare. He, however, could not agree to that, for he had known many cases of persons in Ireland who, by taking more than the legal rate of interest, had lost the principal, and in one particular instance he knew of a family having been ruined by such a circumstance. The law, as proposed by the hon. member for Dover, at least secured the principal. The only possible loss would be the additional bonus. But this was said to prove the absurdity of the proposition.
61Mr. O'Connell
 observed, great difficulties would arise in the details. Children might be transferred from one part of the country to another, and a species of parochial questions would arise as to whether they had been properly abandoned or no. He thought it might, perhaps, be better if the entire subject was to lie over for farther consideration. He would not, however, oppose the second reading.Mr. O'Connell
 thought that the clause for separating the children from their parents, never could be carried into effect; and if it could, it would be productive of more harm than good.Mr. Wodehouse
, on moving that this Bill be read a second time, said, that he wished to have it sent to a committee up stairs, in order to have the machinery of it properly regulated. He wished, also, to exempt from its operation the metropolis, the different parishes adjoining the metropolis, and all those parishes, in different parts of the country, which had the benefit of local acts for the same object.Mr. Portman
35, in presenting a Petition from the cultivators of Tobacco, residing in the town of Enniscorthy (county of Wexford), praying that no duty might be levied on Tobacco grown in Ireland, and signed by nearly 100 gentlemen of respectability observed, that he had felt it his duty to make inquiries into the subject of growing Tobacco in Ireland, and he had not met with a single person who was not convinced that the amount of duty was such as would amount to a total prohibition of the cultivation. The petitioners stated, that they were ready to bring forward evidence to prove this point, and they observed, that to prohibit that culti-
35Mr. G. Moore
l observed, that the statement of the petitioners, as to the small expense of cultivating Tobacco at home, could be only attributed to their ignorance on the subject. The expense of cultivation was very great, and he knew himself an instance where the expense of cultivating one acre of Tobacco, in the county of Wick low, amounted to 10lMr. H. Grattan
44s.s., having acted as a magistrate in a large district for thirty years, begged to deny some of the statements that had just been made. With respect to the plan of bringing back the Poor-laws to the state in which they were in the reign of Elizabeth, he should approve of it if it were practicable; but he feared it was not, for the state of the country was much changed since that time. We were then an agricultural people, having no surplus labourers; now we were a manufacturing people, working by machinery, and having a large surplus population; and we were thus reduced to straits, from which we knew not how to escape, but by a better administration of the present system. An hon. Member had called some of the payments now made an assignment of wages out of the Poor-rates: he denied it. The value of labour was regulated by the proportion of the supply to the demand, and no law of this description could alter it. A pauper with several children could not support himself upon 844s.s.Mr. Benett
46 observed, that as the law now stood, it allowed the separation of paupers and their children, for the purpose of being apprenticed by the parish; but that was quite a different thing to separat
46Mr. Benett
54 said, one reason for the increase of the poor-rates in the south and west of England was, that manufactures of flannel and woollen had been all re-
54Mr. Benett
 did not intend to trouble the House on the present occasion, but, as his hon. friend had called upon him, he had no hesitation in saying, that he maintained the same opinions upon the subject as he had formerly held. He had been induced to believe that the Bill of the hon. member for Dover was somewhat different in its provisions from the bill of the learned Serjeant. The hon. Member said, that the Bill would not affect mortgages, but in this he did not concur. He could not agree with him, that it would leave them in the same state in which it found them; since it legalized the loan of money at a higher rate of interest than five per cent. But he objected on general grounds to so great a change in the money system of this country. There already existed, he thought, sufficient anxiety and want of confidence in all money transactions; and the effect of suddenly changing the law concerning them would be to add considerably to the difficulties of every class in the country except that class which laboured under no difficulty at all. If his hon. friend had not called upon him he should not have troubled the House upon the question, as he had not read the Bill, and had not conceived that it tended to make so great an alteration in the money system of the country as he now found. He should therefore oppose the second reading, and continue to pursue the same course as formerly, which, though it might be called the result, of ignorance, he should persevere in, until some new light should be thrown on the question, and induce him to change his opinion.Mr. Calcraft
45 was willing to assent to the Bill, provided it were accompanied with the clause recommended by the right hon. member for Ashburton (Mr. Sturges Bourne). That clause, a few years ago, had been brought forward in the shape of a separate measure, and the object of it was, to provide, instead of giving paupers increased wages when their families amounted to a certain number, that some of their children, if not wholly taken from them, should at least be supported and educated by the parish. The clause suggested did not necessarily require the separation of the parents from their children;
45Mr. Courtenay
 wondered how the right hon. and learned Gentleman could reconcile it to himself to fix his bill for Wednesday se'nnight, after the strong and unanswerable reasons which he had given for not bringing it on at all on a Wednesday.Mr. Astell
 presented a Petition from the East-India Company against the Madras Registrar's Bill. The petitioners complained that the principle of the Bill was most unjust, and they prayed to be heard by counsel against it. The hon. Member moved that the petitioners be heard by counsel at the Bar against the second reading of the Bill.Mr. Astell
67 seconded the Motion. The hon. Member observed, that no credit would be given to the Government out of doors, unless it began its economical reductions with its highest officers. He was
67Mr. Trant
 maintained that the present system operated most injuriously on large classes of commercial and trading-men. At the time when the existing laws were passed, there were reasons why money should not bear a higher interest than five per cent. Capital was at that period less abundant than it was at present; for it was a great mistake to suppose that capital was not at present abundant, not only in this country, but over the whole world. Under such circumstances, was it not a great hardship that both lenders and borrowers should be limited in their transactions? It was a great mistake to suppose that means were not at present resorted to, such as annuities and others, by which money was borrowed and lent at a rate greater than that which the law allowed. His hon. friend's Bill would do away with all the evils into which borrowers were driven by the absurd existing regulations. Having said so much in favour of the principle of the Bill, he must add, that he was decidedly adverse to that clause in it which, having allowed parties to borrow and lend at a greater rate than five per cent, held out a temptation to the borrower to go into a court of law for the purpose of violating his contract.Mr. Robinson
 objected to this clause, stating, that it involved a question of the utmost importance, and which required the most serious consideration. He never remembered any similar clause in any former enactment, and he was afraid the Members were not aware of its import. Such a proposition had indeed been agitated in former committees, but never sanctioned, he believed, by a recommendation from them. It was one to which he never did and never would consent. It authorised the parish overseers to take away their children from the poor, and provide for them, and educate them. Good God! was it not enough that these people were poor? must the legislature also deprive them of their children? The great mass of the labouring classes were already too much degraded; and to take away their offspring from them would cut asunder all the ties which yet bound them to good behaviour, and connected them with the rest of the world. The clause was, in his opinion, so objectionable, so likely to be destructive of all good feelings in the poor, that he was bound to oppose it.Sir Thomas Baring
 said, that the hon. Member proposed to effect two objects by this Bill,—the one was, to raise the character of the pauper, the other to diminish the poor-rates. He thought the Bill calculated to effect neither of these objects. Was it raising the character of the pauper to insist that every man, himself and his family, should be maintained wholly by the parish if he came for relief at all? And could it be supposed that the very expensive machinery of this Bill would diminish the parish rates? He thought the Bill would degrade the pauper still farther, and increase the poor-rates.Sir T. Baring
 only wished to explain to the Committee how the clause was introduced into the Bill. The committee which sat up stairs to make inquiries into the state of the poor, had been informed by several persons who were examined—which was indeed a well-known matter of fact—that a great many of the poor were so very badly off, that they could not provide for their own children; they were brought up therefore at the expense of the parish, either at their own homes, or in the parish workhouse. Being neglected, therefore, receiving little or no education, these children when they grew up came, in their turn, to be the parents of beings as destitute as themselves. They, therefore, perpetuated the evil of pauperism, and it was supposed by the committee, that one means, and which appeared to the committee a feasible, a proper, and, he would add, a humane means of checking that evil would be, to take the children of such parents as were quite unable to provide for them, and by educating them, raise them above the miserable condition of their parents. This was the view of the committee; in this, he must say, he saw nothing cruel, nothing deserving the censure of hon. Members. It should be always remembered that the clause applied only to those children whose parents were quite unable to provide for them.Lord Althorp
 was of opinion, that if the Usury Laws were to be changed, there could be no more convenient time for the alteration than the present. As to the fraud which it was said the Bill would sanction, it should be remembered that the same means of fraud existed at present, nay greater; for if a party borrowing money at usurious interest brought the party lending into a court of law, he could refuse not only to pay the interest, but the principal also. He did not believe that the repeal of the Usury Laws would be disadvantageous to the landed interest; as it would not subject them to pay more for money than they did at present. He should support the Bill, as he had done all others of a similar description.Lord Althorp
88 said, that as he was the person who introduced and conducted through the House the measure, against which the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman were directed, and which had been so often attacked, he might be allowed to say a few words in its defence. He would not enter into the subject with reference to any of the antecedent attacks which had been made against the measure, but would rather imitate the temper displayed by the hon. Gentleman upon the present occasion. He would proceed to show that the Act was not, as had been represented, an invasion of private property, and that it was not entitled to any of the appellations which had been bestowed upon it. When the Statute was passed, it was generally acknowledged to be an improvement of the law which had previously existed, and an alleviation of the burthens and obligations of that class whose cause the hon. Member particularly professed to advocate. It received the approbation of men who were as jealous of the interests of the Roman Catholics as the hon. Member himself; and amongst others, of Lord Plunkett, then. Attorney-general for Ire-
88The Chancellor of the Exchequer
78l.77 wished to enter his protest against the doctrine which had just been laid down by the two right hon. Gentlemen opposite, that in no case was it competent for Parliament to meddle with the property of the Church, which was to be considered as safe as any gentleman's private property. At the same time, he felt himself bound to declare, notwith
78l.77Mr. Baring
8180l.l.l.79 had no intention of speaking upon this Petition when he entered the House, but felt himself called upon to rise, in order to set right a statement which had just been made respecting some of our Bishops, and their mode of performing their duties. His hon. friend, the member for Callington, had stated to the House that the Bishop of Llandaff, who possessed but a small income from his diocese, resided constantly in London, owing to his being unable to provide himself with a suitable residence in his diocese in Wales. But he could inform the House, from his own knowledge, that that meritorious prelate had held it to be his duty to hire, at his own expense, a residence within his bishopric, and had gone down to it last summer, for the express purpose of performing his Episcopal duties. He should be extremely sorry if it went forth to the public that the Bishop of Llandaff had failed in the discharge of the functions of his station, when his conduct was of the most exemplary description. Next, as to the residence of the venerable Bishop of Hereford at Winchester. When the House considered that that Prelate was now past eighty years of age, and that he had discharged his duties in the most exemplary manner, as long as his strength and health permitted, it would hardly expect a man of his advanced age to do more than what he now did. It was only last year that he
8180l.l.l.79Dr. Lushington
 had no doubt that the learned civilian had correctly explained the law; but if the law respecting the licensing of curates were such as he had stated, it was never acted on, and he believed it was unknown in Ireland. He was himself acquainted with a case, in which a clergyman had faithfully performed the duties of a curate for five years; during the whole of that time he never could succeed in obtaining a license, and at the end of it he was dismissed by the rector who employed him, without any cause being assigned for his dismissal.Lord Oxmantown
l.l.82 said, that from the observations which had just fallen from his hon. and learned friend, he was afraid that he had unintentionally used expressions which reflected on the conduct of the reverend prelates whose names he had mentioned in his former speech. He assured the House, that if he had used such expressions, it was most unintentionally. No one could entertain a higher respect than he did for the Bishop of Hereford;
l.l.82Mr. Baring
83maximum concurred in the observations which had been so pertinently made by the hon. and learned civilian who had just addressed the House. From every information which he had been able to acquire, the hon. and learned civilian was perfectly correct in the 83maximumSir R. Inglis
71 rose, to present a Petition from the Inhabitants of the County and City of Cork, respecting the Established Church of Ireland, of his intention to present which he had last night given notice. The individuals by whom it was signed, in all 3,000, were all members of the Established Church. When the importance of the subject, and the number and respectability of the parties from whom the Petition had emanated, and who had intrusted it to him, were considered, he was persuaded that the House would deem it entitled to most serious attention. The objects which the petitioners had in view were, to effect a more equal distribution of the Church Revenues in Ireland, and to correct the abuses which existed in the administration of that Church. The petitioners declared, that they were convinced of the purity of the doctrines of the Protestant Church—that they were convinced of the purity of the Episcopal Establishments—that they were desirous of supporting the privileges of that Establishment—that they distinctly acknowledged the right of the Established Church of Ireland, as a body, to the Church Properly and Revenues—that they were far from considering that property and those revenues as superabundant, if they were more equitably distributed; and that they earnestly deprecated the application of any portion of the Church property to secular purposes, as tending to violate the principles of the Constitution, to endanger the connexion which ought to subsist between the Church and State, and to lead to national confusion and ruin. But while they were extremely desirous that the Church revenues should not be invaded for any temporal purposes, they contended that those revenues ought to be more equally distributed among the different classes of the members of the establishment. At present some of the dignitaries of the Established Church in Ireland enjoyed much beyond what the most liberal estimate would consider them entitled to, while on the other hand, those members of the Church on whom the most arduous and important duties devolved, received pittances insufficient for the supply of their most moderate wants, and entirely inadequate as a provision for those who performed services of so valuable a character. While, therefore, the petitioners admitted that a diversity of orders required a diversity of incomes,
71Mr. Robert King
72 said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the reception of the Petition, but he wished to state one or two facts. His hon. friend, in presenting the Petition, had spoken of it as being most respectably signed, as if it represented the sentiments of the entire Protestant population of Cork. But the fact was, that. out of a population of 30,000 Protestants, only 3,000 had signed this Petition; that though there were seven
72Colonel Beresford
74 explained,—The statements
74Mr. King
75 did not rise to enter into a discussion upon the subjects adverted to in this Petition, because he was of opinion that discussions upon the presentation of petitions were peculiarly inconvenient. He rose for the purpose of entering his protest against the supposition that his unwillingness to enter into those details now, argued an acquiescence, on his part, in the principles avowed by the hon. member for Aberdeen. That hon. Gentleman appeared to allude to some former contests with him upon this subject, and he seemed to intimate, that in those contests, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had uniformly attempted to defend, or to deny altogether, the abuses which were stated to exist in the Established Church in Ireland. Now, he was sure that those hon. Members who had done him the favour to attend to what had fallen from him with regard to those different subjects when under discussion, would recollect that he had uniformly expressed his opinion, in accordance with the sentiments of several of the most respectable Clergymen connected with the Church of Ireland, that several evils connected with the state of the Established Church in Ireland required correction. There had accordingly been much, he might say, done within the last few years, to place the Church of Ireland on the footing on which it ought to stand. There had grown up lately a desire in all ranks of people, and especially in the Church itself, to remedy those abuses which were admitted to exist, and which owed their existence not to any neglect or fault of the heads of the Church, but to the particular circumstances in which the Church itself was placed. He hoped that this subject would be discussed upon the principle of removing abuses where abuses were proved to exist, but not upon the principle of condemning the whole body of the Clergy because there had been sonic members of it who had misconducted themselves; still less upon the principle of appropriating the revenues of the Church, as was proposed, by the hon. Member op-
75The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose for the purpose of saying a few words in consequence of the self-complacency with which the hon. member for Aberdeen referred to this Petition, signed by fifty-eight Magistrates of the county of Cork, as a confirmation of the peculiar views which he had himself; previously taken of the state of the property of the Church in Ireland. However valuable the hon. Member might conceive this Petition to be as a confirmation of his own arguments, he would venture to affirm, that there was very little concurrence in the main between these petitioners and the hon. Member. The Petition set out with a description of the advantages which the petitioners considered their country to have derived from the Established Church,—a point on which their opinion was much at variance with the opinions usually advanced by the hon. Member. Then, as to having the Church dealt with as the other establishments of the country were, by annual estimates, he must say, that he did not rely much on the prophecies which the hon. member for Aberdeen had made upon that head. On referring to that old almanack of which they had occasionally heard so much in that House, he found that there was no instance in which the property of the Church had been dealt with in the liberal fashion recommended by the hon. Member, where the property of individuals had been held sacred. If he should ever live to see the Church property thus dealt with, he should then deem his own property no longer safe. He would, therefore, oppose such projects to the utmost of his power. His conduct in so doing might not appear 'very meritorious, as it would be founded on a motive of self-interest, but he saw no reason why men should not consider their own interests, when the consideration of them tended also to the public benefit.Lord F. L. Gower
76 said, he differed entirely from the hon. member for Aberdeen, but he did not think the presentation of a petition the proper opportunity for entering into any extended discussion of the subject. He certainly was disposed to find fault with the system by which the Curates of the Church of Ireland were left entirely at the mercy of the incumbents of livings of which the Curates dis-
76Lord Oxmantown
101mandamus100 resumed: If Roman Catholics were permitted to vote, he foresaw it must be productive of the most endless confusion in Ireland, and would lead to the destruction of that, peace and good-will now so happily prevailing in that country. The Church of Ireland was a branch of the Protestant United Episcopal Church of England, and the reform carrying on in the whole of that Church required an increased supply of places of worship, and he knew not how those were to be had otherwise than by taxing the possessors of land in Ireland. They could not expect England to pay for those churches; and if it turned out that the possessors of land in Ireland were not able to pay for them, then England must see that they were paid for from some other quarter, so as to keep the burthen, if pos-
101mandamus100Mr. Secretary Peel
mandamus103l.No, nol.102 claimed the privilege of saying a few words in reply. He objected to the payment of cess by Catholics, so long as they were denied the power of voting at vestries, and so long as the purposes for which the money was voted remained undefined. It was most unfair to charge him with making the present a question of religion—he had studiously avoided making it so—it was a question of pounds, shillings, and pence—it was a question about levying distress, and the pocketing of fees upon that distress—that was not religion, that was extortion, and the party guilty of it was an extortion, and no Christian at all. Those who had to observe upon what had fallen from him, and who felt themselves called upon to oppose his Motion, seemed much discontented at the manner in which he had introduced his Motion. He remembered once hearing a counsel say to a witness, "Why don't you say something that I can lay hold of?" Hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to be somewhat in that situation—they seemed to be amazingly discontented with him for not saying something that they could lay hold of. He should now come to another point. The great principle for which he contended was this—that no one sect ought to have the power of taxing another at its discretion, for the maintenance of an adverse system of religion. If the Protestants of England bore the same numerical proportion to the Catholics here, which the Catholics of Ireland bore to the Protestants there, he should feel but little respect for the Protestant body, if they allowed a few Catholics to tax them for the maintenance of
mandamus103l.No, nol.102Mr. O'Council
105l. objected to proceeding with the Bill at that hour. The Bill itself was objectionable in most parts, particularly in those which referred to the Welsh judicature. It was divided into two parts, which were not at all necessarily connected, and between those was introduced a measure not connected with either—namely, the abolition of arrest for debt for any sum less than 100105l.Mr. Jones
 observed, that the opposition of his hon. friend to the Bill was certainly unfair. He raised objections to the measure, and then compared it to a measure on the Poor-laws which had been introduced by his hon. and learned friend some three or four years ago, with which, however, it had nothing whatever to do; and after having made a speech himself, he wished to prevent farther discussion by moving an adjournment. If his hon. friend had objections to parts of the Bill, the committee was the place to discuss them, and it would therefore be more proper to let the Bill go into committee, and discuss them there.Mr. Secretary Peel
106 objected to the Bill, and the present was the proper time for making the objection, because it was too late an hour to enter upon the consideration of a measure of such importance There were parts of the Bill which had no connexion whatever with each other; one part relating to Wales, and the other to regulations at Westminster-hall. The appointment of the three Judges to the courts in Wales had no necessary connexion with the courts in Westminster; for if the business were equalized in the Courts of King's Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer,
106Mr. O'Connell
107 said, that if he postponed the Bill from to-night, he did not know on what night or day he could fix, and many Members expected that the Bill would be brought on to-night. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had shown so much zeal in defence of the Welsh judicature as to travel out of his way to make a personal attack on him, which certainly reflected very little credit on his good taste, had himself not pointed out any day on which the second reading could be fixed, if postponed from to-night. The fact was, the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to defeat the Bill altogether; but he might have taken a much more fair and manly course in meeting it on proper grounds. He had objected to the appointment of three Judges in Westminster-hall, as not connected with any alteration in the Welsh judicature, but their appointment would be rendered necessary by the removal of the eight Welsh Judges. He did not think the Bill perfect. He did not say it was so, but if the House would allow it to go into a committee, he had no doubt alterations could be made, which would remove every objection. He was quite ready to divide the Bill into two or three bills, if the House desired it; but even that could not be done until they went into committee. Under these circumstances he did not think it necessary to enter into the principle of the Bill, as he felt the House would not do the mea-
107The Attorney General
 denied that his object in moving the adjournment was to defeat the Bill—his great objection at present was to the lateness of the hour at which it was brought forward.Mr. T. P. Williams
 said, that as a Welsh Member he could not agree with the arguments of the other Welsh Members for the postponement of the measure. The House was now called upon to recognize the general principle of the Bill. As far as he had been able to ascertain the opinions of his constituents, they were willing to enter into the consideration of a measure founded on the allegation that it was desirable to make a change in the Welsh judicature; but then it was absolutely necessary that they should be informed what the proposed change was—what sort of judicature it was intended to introduce in lieu of that at present in existence. As the Bill at present stood, that could not be discovered. It was impossible that the measure could meet with their support unless the right hon. and learned Gentleman took an opportunity of stating the outline and detail of the measure which he intended to substitute for the present Welsh judicature. It was impossible to think of subverting the present administration of justice in Wales, and leaving that country exposed to the introduction of no one knew what in its place. Were the counties to be divided? To such a proposition many of the Welsh counties would object. That one which he had the honour to represent disliked parting with the Assize altogether. Let the plan, however, be distinctly explained to the House, and then only could it be fairly pronounced upon. That could only be done in the committee, when the details would be given, and it would depend upon them whether he supported or opposed the Bill.Mr. F. Lewis
110109108 was desirous, as a Member for a Welsh county, of saying a few words on the subject. He had no hesitation in declaring, that it was the decided opinion of the best-informed men, professional and unprofessional, in the county which he had the honour to represent, that the time had arrived, when an alteration ought to be made in the Welsh judicature, and when it ought to be assimilated to that of England. This was not a
110109108Colonel Wood
 maintained, that it was extremely desirable that the administration of justice in England and Wales should be uniform, and that a measure to render it so should be no longer delayed.Mr. Harrison Batley
 was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but was apprehensive that the benefits of it were more than counterpoised by the mischiefs which accompanied it. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to give Cheshire the advantage of the Judges of Westminster Hall. So far, Cheshire was extremely obliged to him. It was certainly most desirable to withdraw that rat-trap, the Chief-justice ship of Chester—an office which had been but too frequently the re- ward of a postacy and tergiversation. If, also, the Chief Justice of Chester proved to be worth his purchase, he soon left that post, while, on the other hand, if he turned out a dear bargain, he remained in it for life. One point, however, seemed to him to require explanation. There were three Counties Palatine—Chester, Lancaster, and Durham—placed under nearly the same circumstances; and yet it was proposed to continue their courts to Lancaster and Durham, and to withdraw those of Chester. He wished the hon. and learned Gentleman would show some reason for this. He would not then press upon the House by detailing the privileges of which it was thus proposed exclusively to deprive the County Palatine of Chester; but they were very important; and yet, without the slightest reason assigned, it was proposed to abrogate them; and to substitute expensive and dilatory law at a distance, for cheap and prompt law near at hand. This would be a serious inconvenience; and he trusted that the hon. and learned Gentle- man would allow the County Palatine of Chester, like the other Counties Palatine, to be excused from the operation of his Bill. The petitions, which would presently pour in thickly, would sufficiently apprise him of the general feeling on the subject.Mr. E. Davenport
111 was not desirous of any unnecessary delay in the consideration of the measure: when he proposed the adjournment, it was far from being with any
111Mr. Jones
114l.l,l.113112certiorari; resumed—the hon. member for Brecon had talked of the practicability of removing a case to the nearest county. That, however, could not be done without a writ of 114l.l,l.113112certiorari;Mr. Jones
115 did not mean to follow the last speaker through all the details he had gone into, which he thought would form a fitter subject for discussion in the committee. Of the principle of the Bill, he completely approved, though he should wish to have a full explanation of the manner 'in which the Attorney General meant to carry it into effect. The principle was, to complete the union between England and Wales, and give to Wales the benefit of English judicature. At present it was impossible to obtain Welsh Judges without paying them salaries far exceeding the duties they performed. They only executed their offices three weeks in summer, and three weeks in autumn, and for this duty they were paid their whole annual salary, the country deriving no other advantage from them but the little duty they performed in those six weeks. Now he thought, that the only way to make a Judge efficient was, to give him constant employment; for unless he had constant employment, he was likely to forget whatever legal knowledge he might once have possessed. What his hon. friend (Colonel Wood) had said about the power of a rich suitor instituting his cause in one of the Courts of Westminster, had been completely misunderstood. His hon. friend did not mean that the suitor could remove his cause to
115Mr. C. Wynn
116 said, there were obviously great inaccuracies in the Bill before the House; and perhaps it would hereafter assume a very different shape; but he was bound to deal with the Bill as it stood, and so dealing with it, he must declare that he had insurmountable objections to it. It was said, that it was impossible to have three new Judges added to the twelve in Westminster Hall, unless the Welsh Judicature were given up, and so it was to be sacrificed for that change; but he could assure the House that the Principality did not think the change any benefit. It was then stated, that Wales could not, under the present system, have Judges such as she ought to have; but he begged to refer the House to the list of eminent Judges who had distinguished that country, and he would then ask if that assertion was true, If the Government chose to exert itself to find men competent to fill the situation of Welsh Judges, he had no doubt it would find, among the rising members of the bar, a sufficient number of individuals of talent to fill those situations. The removal of the Courts of Judicature would be a great inconvenience and additional expense to all parties concerned in law proceedings. The commissioners said, in their Report, that those who had local interests were not to be chiefly consulted; but if the House were legislating for Yorkshire or Kent, would it not appeal to the members for those counties? He was not one of those who thought very cheap law likely to be beneficial, particularly to the Welsh, who were very litigious; but certainly it ought not to be too dear, nor ought such impediments to be thrown in the way of administering justice, as to give the rich a monopoly of the Courts. Even the cost of letters backwards and forwards, between Wales and Westminster Hall would be found no inconsiderable expense—not
116Mr. Rice Trevor
120119118117fro forma. could not help admitting that the Bill, in its present state, was very imperfect, but this imperfection arose from the mistake of the printers. Corrections had been made in the margin of the draft of the Bill, which the printer had forgotten to attend to. His design was, to have the Bill read a second time to-night, and to go into a Committee 120119118117fro forma.The Attorney General
 could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the sense of the majority of the inhabitants of the Principality was against his proposed measure; and he could also assure him that the advantage he expected to obtain in the nomination of proper persons to serve the office of Sheriff, would be of trifling moment, for at present there was no difficulty in procuring gentlemen of character and suitable station to serve that high office.Sir John Owen
 concurred with the hon. Baronet, and felt himself obliged to oppose the Bill.Mr. Owen Williams
 inquired if the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to continue the clause respecting arrests for debt; and if he did not, would he bring in any measure on that subject during the present Session?Mr. Hume
 said, he knew that many persons were of opinion that arrests for debt should not take place for small sums, but he had not included the clause his hon. friend alluded to in this Bill. He had refrained from doing so, not as objecting to the principle it involved, but in consequence of some communications with gentlemen out of doors. A suggestion had also been thrown out, which he thought deserved attention, as it might prevent individuals from resisting the payment of just debts; that was, to make debts bear a legal interest. A clause he thought might be drawn to protect creditors against vexatious opposition; but whether or not he should introduce any general measure on this subject during the Session, must depend on the state of business in the House.The Attorney General
122121 rose merely to defend the Law Commissioners from the charge
122121Mr. Brougham
 thought this a piebald, patched-up measure, which would do no good whatever. Me objected to it on the very ground that the Attorney General supported it. He approved of local jurisdictions, and thought it was a great evil to have all law and all justice confined to Westminster Hall.Mr. O'Connell
92919089 then understood the hon. Gentleman to say, that so far as related to the re-building and repairing of churches, the previous law gave the Vestry a right of assessment. Now, the hon. Gentleman had much insisted on the system of procuring funds for building churches in England and Ireland, and he had stated particularly the hardships to which he asserted the latter country was subjected. It was true that in England the Vestries were not bound to levy assessments for the building of parish churches; but it was equally true, that latterly in Ireland the parishioners were not assessed for that purpose. In Ireland the funds came from another source—namely, the First Fruits. Advances were made to parishes from that source, and the sum so advanced was afterwards repaid, without interest, by the parishes. In the same way, when there was a necessity for erecting a church here, a sum of money was advanced by the Com-missioners for Building Churches, and the
92919089The Chancellor of the Exchequer
9493 said, he agreed with much of the latter part of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but not with the early portion of it. The right hon. Gentleman had risen to vindicate his bill; but the real and practical object which it was the duty of the House to discuss was, whether or not a case had been made out, even by the admission of the right hon. Gentleman himself, which rendered it expedient and necessary, without looking to the feelings and views of those who framed the law, to alter and amend it. On the part of those immediately connected with individuals who were affected by measures of this character, he thought the House had a right to expect that a more distinct pledge should be given—and that, too, without loss of time—by his Majesty's Government, of their intention to propose some alterations in this measure. He confessed for one, without meaning any disrespect to the hon. member for Clare, that he should be glad to see the amendment of the law taken up by the Government of the country rather than by an individual. The hon. member for Clare appeared to agree with him in that sentiment; and therefore would acquit him of any disrespectful feeling. He should, with reference to the success of any new measure, wish to see it proceed directly from the Government, in preference to its being introduced by an individual unconnected with the Administration, because, coming from such a quarter, it was undoubtedly more likely to be carried. He entirely concurred in the sentiment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that, whatever defects were to be found in the bill as it now stood, such defects were not to be imputed to those who introduced the measure to Parliament, or to those who endeavoured to improve it. The whole spirit which was manifested in the debates in Parliament on this subject, was evidently dictated by a desire to apply a remedy to an admitted evil; and he must say, that in many important points that remedy was afforded by the bill before them. But admitting that, was he to be precluded from voting for a measure to remove other defects? Certainly not. At the same time, he would vote with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, provided a pledge were given by the
9493Mr. S. Rice
9897 considered it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. member for Clare, and in doing so would take the opportunity to explain very briefly his views of the subject. When first he undertook the duties of the office which he now held, he entered upon them with impressions and notions as to this law, which had been considerably changed by what he had observed since he went to Ireland. He was prepared to find a case of remarkable failure and grievance, but he must say that his impression, arising from recent experience, and from what he had seen of the working of the law in the country, was, that it was a law which rather admitted than urgently required
9897Lord F. L. Gower
99 said, he most fully
99Mr. Secretary Peel
: Other Dissenters vote now.Mr. O'Connell
 had only spoken as to the additional powers relating to the enlarging of churches and chapels.Mr. O'Connell
mandamus87868584 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a Statute passed so recently as in the year 1827, which considerably affected the properly of his Majesty's subjects in Ireland. The voice of the country had been raised against it. This was abundantly evident from the numerous petitions which had been laid upon the Table of the House. He had himself presented at least thirty petitions against this Statute, and he was convinced that three times as many had been presented by other hon. Members. In a word, the Act gave universal discontent, and he considered that its provisions were well calculated to do so; but he relied not, however, upon his own judgment, nor did he wish the House to take the fact upon his simple assertion. He could bring forward, in support of what he had stated,
mandamus87868584Mr. O'Connell
 would not have said a word upon the present occasion, had it not been for the extraordinary misapprehension under which the hon. member for Aberdeen appeared to labour. He would beg leave to remind that hon. Member that this Petition had been in preparation for some months before the meeting of Parliament. Those who had proposed it had challenged all the Protestants of Ireland to come forward in support of it. That challenge had not been answered,—a circumstance which, by itself, was a sufficient refutation of the allegations of the hon. member for Aberdeen, that his views with regard to Church property had met with the sanction of the great body of the Protestants of Ireland.Mr. Moore
95 said, the principle that Roman Catholics and other dissenters from the Established Church should be exempted from contributing to its support, had been very adroitly disclaimed by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite on this occasion, who, however, at the same time that he disavowed any intention of introducing that principle in his amended bill, spoke in such a manner, that he could not but believe, if the Bill were allowed to pass into a law, that the very next attempt of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be to introduce and establish that principle. The hon. member for Limerick gave up the remaining principle which the learned Gentleman sought to enforce, so that he (Mr. Moore) was relieved from going into the details of the subject. Of this he was satisfied, that infinitely more excitation would be produced in Ireland generally by an alteration of the law, as suggested by the hon. member for Clare, than could be compensated by the soothing effect which the learned Gentleman expected from the change in parishes where the numbers of dissenters from the Established Church predominated. It was well known that there were parts of Ireland where the Protestant inhabitants had no parochial place of worship. In such cases, the act of the 4th of Geo. 4th gave the Bishop of the
95Mr. Moore
 took the opportunity of complaining that two of the right hon. Gentlemen on the opposite benches had strangely misrepresented what he had stated respecting Church property. He would never shrink from avowing any language which he had uttered; but he thought it a little too bad to hear language palmed upon him which he had never used. There was all the difference imaginable between the property belonging to Deans and Chapters and the property which private individuals had in advowsons. He wished that the vested interest of every incumbent, and of every advowson should be held sacred. His observations merely applied to Church property belonging to Bishops, Deans and Chapters, and other ecclesiastical corporations. The result of this debate satisfied him that some further inquiry was necessary, and he trusted that Ministers would institute it speedily.Mr. Hume
73 observed, that many of the opinions expressed in this Petition, respecting the Established Church of Ireland, were similar to those which he had himself expressed in that House many years before. He had at that time reprobated the pluralities and the other abuses in the Church of Ireland, to which the Petition adverted. He regretted that he was not at the present moment in possession of the admirable remarks on the subject, which had been subsequently made by the noble Lord who presided at the meeting from which the Petition emanated. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had denied that the Petition proceeded from the majority of the Protestant inhabitants of the County and City of Cork. But could he say that the averments of the petitioners were false? Could he deny the force of their statements? And was not a Petition, proceeding from 3,000 persons, fifty-eight of whom were Magistrates, and one a Peer, deserving the most serious attention of the House? As to its having been signed by only one Peer, it was not very extraordinary that few Peers should be found disposed to sign such a Petition, since it was their interest to keep the revenues of the Church at the disposal of the Ministers, who, as the noble Lord to whom he had already alluded stated, employed them for the purpose of bribing both Peers and Commoners. He knew the sincerity of the hon. Gentleman who had presented the Petition; and he claimed equal credit for sincerity when he declared that he entirely differed from the hon. Gentleman and the petitioners in their opinion, that the existing Established Church of Ireland was suitable to the present time, or fit for the country in which it existed. He had on a former occasion stated that a reform of that Establishment was loudly called
73Mr. Hume
 said, the hon. and learned Member had told them how highly a Church could flourish without any provision; while he said, at the same time, that it was not his present intention to go further than the measure then before the House: but who could doubt the hon. and learned Gentleman's ultimate intention? No one who, like him, was an earnest and sincere member of the Roman Catholic Church, could reconcile it to his feelings, to omit bringing forward motions of that nature. He could not help endeavouring to make some progress—he hardly knew what to call it—in undermining what he could not but regard as an intrusive Church: it was perfectly natural, and so obvious, that all men had foreseen that the moment a Roman Catholic Member obtained a seat in that House, measures would be introduced for the purpose of overturning the Established Church in Ireland. This, in fact, was the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman, though he couched it under the name of an amendment in the Vestries Act. He should deeply regret to see the Church of Ireland regulated by a schedule in an Act of Parliament, as proposed by the hon. member for Limerick, instead of being-regulated by the Canons and the Rubric. There might be philosophers and economists in that House, but he trusted, the people would support him in maintaining the rights and privileges of the Church of England. He hoped and believed that the people of England would support him and other Members of that House, in watching, with the greatest vigilance, anything affecting the interests of the Established Church in Ireland.Mr. Trant
l.96 said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down thought it right to refer the House to Burn's Ecclesiastical Law for the meaning of the terms "Rubric" and "Canons of the Church;" but the right hon. Gentleman opposite was content with issuing a circular as to what the Rubric required without referring to Burn's Ecclesiastical Law. What was the result of this letter? The result was, not only that many of the parishes treated it with levity, but several of the incumbents said, the right hon. Gentleman had no authority to send such a communication, and one individual went the length of saying he set it at nought. In one parish in
l.96Sir J. Newport
 did not rise to prolong the discussion, but merely to remind the House, that it was not many days since it had presented an Address to the Crown, praying that it would appoint a commission to inquire into the abuses of the Ecclesiastical Establishments in Ireland. That commission had since been appointed, and he therefore was of opinion that, until the report of that commission was presented, any discussion like the present was both ill-timed and injudicious. When that report was laid upon the Table, they would see what abuses were clearly proved to exist, and what remedies were most easily applicable to them. For this reason, he should not trouble the House with any further observations on the present occasion.Sir John Newport
 took that opportunity to express a hope that the unanimous feeling of the country with respect to the law affecting Divorces would have a due weight with the Government, and that a repetition of those proceedings which they had recently witnessed on another Divorce Bill would be avoided by an immediate alteration of the law. It was the unanimous opinion both in the House and out of the House, that the House was not a fit tribunal to try such causes, and it would be more advantageous to the public, as well as more creditable to Parliament, if a particular tribunal were established, to decide and determine all such cases cheaply and expeditiously.Mr. Rice
, in the absence of his right hon. friend, explained the difficulties under which he had laboured on the subject; and expressed his persuasion that the paper in question would be presented as soon as possible.Mr. Herries
126having now entered the House [126having now entered the HouseThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
153 would oppose
153Mr. Harrison Battley
 expressed his desire to give all the information that could be required.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
139138137136135134133132de jurede facto131de jurede factode jurede facto130129128127 commenced his speech by reading the Resolutions which it was his intention to submit Jo the House, and which were as follow:—
"That prior to the 12th of December, 1828, her Majesty the Queen Donna Maria 2nd had been recognized by his Majesty, and the other great powers of Europe, to be legitimate Queen of Portugal; and that at the period above-named the said Queen was residing in this country, and had been received by his Majesty with the accustomed honours of her royal rank.139138137136135134133132de jurede facto131de jurede factode jurede facto130129128127Mr. Grant
142141140 feared he might be charged with presumption in rising to address the House immediately after the eloquent appeal which had been made to it by the right hon. Gentleman; but he trusted his usual disinclination to trouble it, except in concerns connected with his office, and the zeal which he felt for the honour of the country, might be considered to form a sufficient excuse. He had for some time looked with considerable anxiety upon the laconic notice which had been so long on the Paper of the House, which was so well calculated by its obscurity to conjure up phantoms of cases, which individuals might suppose would be brought forward; he apprehended a great deal more from the experience and ability which the right hon. Gentleman was confessedly so able to bring forward in support of his view of the question, than from any conclusions which he could draw from the papers themselves. The right hon. Gentleman had entered into a subtle discussion respecting the difference between stipulated and voluntary neutrality. In this it was unnecessary to follow him, as neutrality had been, by his own confession, agreed upon as the policy of the State. It had also been remarked, that it was singular those Portuguese should have remained so long in this country without having attracted the notice of Government; but in fact, there was a disinclination to enter upon any obnox-
142141140Lord F. L. Gower
 spoke to order, The hon. Gentleman appeared to him to have been reading a speech. He did not know whether that were the case—but if so, it was certainly against the rules of the House;Lord John Russell
178177 was of opinion that the Government of this country was not only justified, but was called on by every principle of the law of nations, to prevent armed troops going from this country for the purpose of attacking a belligerent. The first question to be considered was, whether or not the men arrested in their progress were a military body. The Portuguese minister always treated them as troops. He applied to the Government for a passage for them as troops in a British man-of-war, and this was also shown by General Stubbs going to Plymouth, and addressing them as troops. The latter circumstance had particularly attracted the attention of the Duke of Wellington; and to this was to be added,
178177The Solicitor General
183182181ratione et usu.180179 said, that the question had been so well, and so ably discussed, that it required no aid from him; but he should consider himself disgraced if he abstained from delivering his sentiments on the subject on every occasion. Amidst all the singular circumstances belonging to the whole transaction, he knew of none more remarkable than the address of his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General. When a lawyer like him, holding such a high station in his Majesty's councils, standing in the first rank of his profession, having made his way to the exalted eminence on which he stands by the only means by which a man can rise to eminence in this country—the exercise of profound legal knowledge, and the possession of great talents; when a Gentleman in his station, and of his character and profession, rose to address the House on one of the most important questions of international law that ever was agitated within the walls of Parliament, it was certainly to be expected that he would have treated it in a manner becoming the gravity of his profession, and with the learning belonging to his high station. Hearing him say that the Government was called upon to act as it had done by the laws of nations, he heard words which might not have excited expectations of a serious sequel, if they had been uttered by any other person, more accustomed to popular speaking than to legal discussion; but hearing them fall from his hon. and learned friend, he did naturally expect that the learned Gentleman would have told the House where to find one single principle stated, laid down by any writer, acknowledged in any treaty, adverted to by any Judge, sanctioned by any authority, which could in any manner be made to justify what, in his conscience, he conceived to be nothing less than an act of lawless violence. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that it was justified because a fraud had been committed by certain Portuguese and Brazilian ministers, and that his Majesty's Government had thereby acquired a right
183182181ratione et usu.180179Sir James Macintosh
195194And did'st in signs again parley with sin."But thou didst understand me by my signs,And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me.Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,Or bid me tell my tale in express words,Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,When I spake darkly what I purposed,"Had'st thou but shook thy head, or made a pause,193192 complimented the right hon. Gentleman who had brought forward, the Motion, to whose exertions he said, every Englishman must feel himself indebted, and contended, that the right hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, had only stated a number of facts, foreign to the question at issue, from which he had himself forgotten to draw any inference. The professional Gentlemen who had addressed the House had not been successful; they lost sight of the general principles the question involved, and argued it on so narrow a foundation, that he was inclined to think it confirmed the observation usually made as to gentlemen of the long robe. It was said, that however ingenious they might be in argument, and however ready in debate, they seldom took a comprehensive view of any question, and Seldom threw much light on those questions of general policy which they sometimes undertook to discuss. One hon. and learned Member favoured the House with a well-considered and voluminous dissertation, delivered with a kind of maidenly modesty which seldom appertained to gentlemen of his profession and robe, going through the whole ordeal which he imposed on himself with singular dexterity and great memory, but with so little satisfaction or instruction to the House, that most of the Members, like himself, were at a loss to find out what part of the question then before the House the hon. and learned Member meant to elucidate, or whether he did not mean rather to confuse and perplex the whole, than illustrate any particular part of it. The noble Lord who had followed the hon. Member, had in a very plain and manly way stated every proposition, so that every Gentleman, whether he assented to it or not, could at least understand what the noble Lord meant—he had destroyed all those lucubrations which had employed the hon. and learned Member so long a period to prepare. The right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had charged the Portuguese refugees with deceit in their endeavours to get back to their own country; but he had unjustly charged them, for they had been guilty of no deceit. They Hew to this country as an asylum in their misfortunes—they expected sympathy and support—and disappointed in this, they asked for a convoy to protect them beyond the reach of their enemies. When that
195194And did'st in signs again parley with sin."But thou didst understand me by my signs,And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me.Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,Or bid me tell my tale in express words,Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,When I spake darkly what I purposed,"Had'st thou but shook thy head, or made a pause,193192Sir Francis Burdett
203202201200ruseamor patriœ199198197dc facto,196 said, that he felt great obligations to the hon. Baronet for the new light he had thrown upon the discussion. In a manner the most generous, if not the most discreet, he had disclosed the real tendency and object of the Motion. He flung to the winds the dry abstract question of the law of nations; away, he says, with your Vattels and your Bynkershoecks—away with all inquiries into the jurisdiction yon have exercised under the laws of nations; I impugn the policy of your neutrality; the principles which animated the patriots of Greece and Rome ought to have guided you; and you ought to have upheld the principles of liberty by making, war on Don Miguel. And that, however disguised, was the real ground for the attack now made on his Majesty's Ministers; their neutral policy was impugned through the affair which happened at Terceira. Like the hon. Baronet, he would not involve himself in legal subtleties—he would only appeal to the plain good sense and common understanding of hon. Gentlemen, having thus merely reminded those who were prepared to vote upon the abstract right of the question, what, according to the views of the hon. Baronet, ought to have been the policy of this country in order to promote the general principles of liberty. He was disposed to speak of the Portuguese refugees with sympathy for their sufferings, and respect for their misfortunes: they came to our shores claiming our hospitality, and they were kindly received; they had since left it, and perhaps all of them had not even yet found a place of refuge. When they came to this country, Government recollected the circumstances under which Don Miguel had usurped the government of Portugal—he repeated, usurped the government of Portugal—and though we consented to afford them a temporary asylum we resolved to maintain a strict neutrality. It was for the interest of Great
203202201200ruseamor patriœ199198197dc facto,196Mr. Secretary Peel
de jurede facto207ipsc dixit206205204 begged, though it was late, and the House was impatient, to be allowed to make a few remarks on the discrepancies in the speeches of those who opposed the Motion, some contending that there had been no breach of neutrality, while others avowed that there had been such a breach, which they justified; and others again, which was to him most marvellous, asserted that the breach had been committed in favour of the Portuguese. On a former occasion, the Government regretted that it could not submit to the House all the information respecting the state of our relations with Portugal; and if, by withholding the papers relating to the present subject, it could have silenced the voice of indignation, which was everywhere ready to break forth against Britain for its conduct in this transaction, he should have applauded the Government for having done so—but the papers were all before the House, and unfortunately they were as plain and as conclusive—if not as satisfactory as could be desired. He would endeavour to guide himself by these documents in the few brief remarks he meant to offer to the House. The right hon. Gentleman had taken credit to himself and the Government, for not having left the Portuguese refugees altogether at the mercy of Spain; but he could not have done that without exciting indignation from one end of the country to the other, which would have taught him, however high the station of Ministers, that they were responsible to public opinion—and to that they must bend. They dared not close England, the asylum of persecuted freemen, against those who, on account of political misfortunes, came here for refuge. The Under Secretary for the Colonies had referred to a communication from the Marquis Barbacena, to shew that the Portuguese went to the island of Terceira as a military body. He might have read the next passage in that communication, to prove that they would probably put an end to the dissensions of which the Ministers complained, and restore tranquillity to the island. The Marquis Barbacena, in requesting the interposition of our Govern-
de jurede facto207ipsc dixit206205204Mr. Stanley
213, in reply, said, he had to thank his right hon. friend for vindicating his notions of neutrality, and relieving him from the charge of founding his Motion on the character of Don Miguel, though his right hon. friend had not done justice to his opinions in supposing that he favoured one side more than another. He was no advocate for such left-handed neutrality, and condemned the case under consideration because the deviation from neutrality towards the side which we might be supposed most especially to favour, was a violation of the general principle. His right hon. friend had described the argument, urged in behalf of the Portuguese, from the arms going in one vessel and the men in another, as sophistry, but his right hon. friend had forgotten that all the arms at Terceira were not carried in the Brazilian frigate—they were exported in merchant vessels, which made the sending the arms, and the sending of the men not necessarily parts of the same transaction. He did not agree, therefore, with his right hon. friend, that cither separately was a breach of our neutrality, which we were bound to prevent, much less to punish after it had been accomplished in an unwarrantable manner. The right hon. the Secretary to the Admiralty seemed to think that it was enough to exonerate us from blame, that we warned the refugees of what we meant to do, as if a man could be exonerated from the guilt of a crime by giving notice that he meant to commit it. He observed that a case of this kind had lately actually occurred: a gentleman, who saw a man in his fields, gave him notice that if he intruded there again he would shoot him, and afterwards kept his word. According to the doctrine of his opponents, the gentleman was not to blame, but the man, who persisted, with obstinate imprudence, in coming to be shot; though he was afraid that the diplomatic argument would not avail the unfortunate gentleman before the tribunals of the country. Looking at the whole arguments of his opponents, he must say, that if he had wanted any more support than he had had the honour to receive; if he had sought any other arguments in favour of his propositions than had been stated by his friends, in order to carry conviction through the whole country, he should have found both support and arguments in the statement of his
213Mr. Charles Grant
 contended, that it was ridiculous to call these men who came unarmed to this country, who left it unarmed, and who never had any arms, a military armament; what propositions had been made by the Marquis Barbacena or the Marquis Palmella, or what had been their acts, had nothing to do with the present Motion, which related wholly to the conduct of the British Government. The arguments of the right hon. Secretary of the Admiralty seemed to furnish additional ground of complaint; for according to his shewing, that interference, which had been refused at the request of the Marquis Barbacena, had been voluntarily undertaken against him when, after the refusal, he could not possibly anticipate that the Government would act on such a principle. That House was not bound to examine the conduct of foreign ambassadors, but it was bound to vindicate the country from the imputation of injustice. Unless some explanation should be given, much more satisfactory than any he had yet heard; unless some arguments should be stated, more forcible than he could conceive, he should continue to think that the Government of this country had committed an act of injustice, and that it would be becoming in that House to rescue the country, by its vote from the stigma cast on it by the act of the Government.Mr. Charles Wood
175cheers174locus pœnitentœ,173172171170169168167166165de facto164bonâ fide163162bonâ fide,161160159158157156ces secours155:—I hope, Sir, that the House will grant me its indulgence if, in the silence of others who would be more competent than I am to the statement of this case, I endeavour to lay before them an outline of the facts on which the vindication of the Government rests. On the 15th of October, 1828, it was requested by the Marquis Barbacena, that the Portuguese refugees, who are the subjects of this Motion, should proceed to the Azores under a British convoy. The language he uses in this application is extremely different from that of his parliamentary advocates. He does not pray that the suffering individuals—the scattered wanderers of the Queen's followers, who were sojourners here, might be forwarded, after all their troubles, to a refuge and peaceful home in the little Archipelago of the Azores; but he plainly acquaints the Duke of Wellington, that the Secretary of the government of the Azores is come to London, authorised to demand with the greatest urgency, the immediate despatch of a part of the faithful Portuguese troops, whose presence in the above-mentioned islands would ensure their
175cheers174locus pœnitentœ,173172171170169168167166165de facto164bonâ fide163162bonâ fide,161160159158157156ces secours155Mr. Horace Twiss
 said, that he certainly had not been reading his speech. It was true, that in the course of the day he had turned the matter over in his mind, and had made rather copious notes on the subject; at the same time he begged to state, that whenever he was aware that he should have occasion to address the House, he adopted a similar course. The practice of his profession necessarily inured him to extemporaneous declamation, and he therefore stood in no need of exculpation from such a charge.Mr. Twiss
190de jure,de facto189188187The Times,The Times,volenti non fit injuria.186de facto185184 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had censured his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, for treating this subject with levity, but the right hon. Gentleman himself had not observed a becoming and serious gravity. The right hon. Gentleman, too, assuming the tone and character of a grave expounder of the law of nations, said, that he would treat it with legal ratiocination; but he had conjured up a bloody usurper, and robed him in the most odious colours, to enlist the sympathies of the House against him and make reason be disregarded. There was, however, the highest authority for saying that the character of one of two belligerents ought not to influence the conduct of a neutral. The right hon. Member had a great respect for Bynkershoeck, and what did that learned civilian say on this very point:—"According to my judgment, the justice or injustice of the cause of the belligerents is no question for a neutral. It is not his business to erect himself into a judge between two parties who are arrayed in hostility against each other, and upon account of the justice or injustice of their respective causes, to give or to deny more to one than to another." The sentiment he observed was received with satisfaction
190de jure,de facto189188187The Times,The Times,volenti non fit injuria.186de facto185184Mr. Croker
l. concurred with his hon. friends, that many increases of Taxation had been made in various departments, of which no notice had been given. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had mentioned an increase of 110,000l.Mr. Hume
125, before the Bill was disposed of, begged to say, that he regretted much no Member of the Government was pre-
125Mr. Hume
 said, that if the Government did not come forward with some proposition on the subject, it was his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Law of Divorce.Dr. Phillimore
 objected to the introduction into the bill of an indirect Taxation on law proceedings. He urged the speedy production of the Schedule.Dr. Phillimore
Oramus: prohibe infandos a navibus ignes,""Troës te miseri, ventis maria omnia vecti,152151Idque in instrumentis bellicis comparandis vulgò servamus; utùt enim et ad utrumque amicum non rectè vendamus—sine fraude tamen vendimus utrique amico, quamvis invicem hosti, et quamvis sciamus alterum contra alterum his in bello esse usurum.150149The sentence of their conqueror."Exile, or ignominy, or bonds, or pain,What yet they know must follow—to endureAnd venturous, if that fail them, shriek and fear"I laugh, when those who at the spear are bold148147146Terrœ dominium finitur ubi finitur armorum vis;th Admiralty Reports,rd Admiralty Reports,Intellexit igitur imperium porrigi quousque e terrâ prospici datum est, et sunt auctores qui sic sentiunt, sed id nimis laxum vagumque esse ostendii, ratus imperium finir, ubi finitur armorum potestas.Positâ capitis pœnâ neque in mari vis fieret vel suis subditis, vel sociis vel peregrinis, sive belli sive alterius rei causâ intra conspectum a terrâ vel potius a portu.145after the pacification of Europe144143 said, that he had been extremely anxious to ascertain how the person put forward by the Government on that great occasion, would deal with arguments as powerful, and combat propositions such as those which had fallen from his right hon. friend who had introduced this discussion, which appeared to him as incontrovertible; but, after paying the utmost attention to what had fallen from the noble Lord, he could not but complain that the noble Lord had declined the real argument in the case, and had confined his defence of the Government to the merely petty technical parts of the subject. The noble Lord had totally misapprehended the point at issue, which was, whether, on the papers now before the House, there was not enough to show that the Government of this country had been guilty of a gross violation of the law of nations? On all the principles of those laws, without going out of these papers to seek for evidence, without travelling either to the right or to the left out of the brief, if he might be allowed so professional an expression, which the Government had put into his hands, he feared he must answer that question in the affirmative. Since he had the honour of a seat in Parliament, no question had exceeded this in importance; inasmuch as for a century and a half since the reign of Charles the 2nd, up to this time, there had been no imputation on the public conduct of this Government
Oramus: prohibe infandos a navibus ignes,""Troës te miseri, ventis maria omnia vecti,152151Idque in instrumentis bellicis comparandis vulgò servamus; utùt enim et ad utrumque amicum non rectè vendamus—sine fraude tamen vendimus utrique amico, quamvis invicem hosti, et quamvis sciamus alterum contra alterum his in bello esse usurum.150149The sentence of their conqueror."Exile, or ignominy, or bonds, or pain,What yet they know must follow—to endureAnd venturous, if that fail them, shriek and fear"I laugh, when those who at the spear are bold148147146Terrœ dominium finitur ubi finitur armorum vis;th Admiralty Reports,rd Admiralty Reports,Intellexit igitur imperium porrigi quousque e terrâ prospici datum est, et sunt auctores qui sic sentiunt, sed id nimis laxum vagumque esse ostendii, ratus imperium finir, ubi finitur armorum potestas.Positâ capitis pœnâ neque in mari vis fieret vel suis subditis, vel sociis vel peregrinis, sive belli sive alterius rei causâ intra conspectum a terrâ vel potius a portu.145after the pacification of Europe144143Dr. Phillimore
 having moved the Order of the Day for going into a Committee on Muskett's Divorce Bill,Mr. Peach
154 said, that the arguments of his right hon. friend, and also of his learned friend, had failed to convince him that the conduct of the Government had been contrary to the laws of nations, and he was sure that those who supported an opposite view would find it difficult to extract from the papers on the Table the materials to warrant such a conclusion. He contended that the principle of neutrality was not new to the present Government; the Government of Mr. Canning had acted upon it; and the present Administration had only copied it from his. In support of that assertion, he could quote from numberless speeches of that right hon. Gentleman to show that such had been the principle upon which his government had acted. There could be no doubt that this country was in a state of the most perfect neutrality; and he put it to the House whether it would not be the grossest breach of that neutrality, and of the law of nations, as respected the conduct of neutrals, for this country to allow any one of the belligerents to fit out here an expedition, for the purpose of carrying on hostilities—if that were not a breach of neutrality, he confessed he was incapable of understanding wherein that breach could consist. The forces were in this country; they were about to embark, for the purposes of attack or relief, or the invasion of some part of the disputed territory; were they then at liberty to make this country a port from which to embark that which could not be called otherwise than a warlike expedition? It had been his chance to observe, as individuals, many of the persons composing that expedition; he had likewise viewed them as a body, and a more complete corps of men he had never seen. They could therefore be considered in no other light than as soldiers calculated to effect military objects. It was justly and naturally that the Marquis Palmella attached importance to their remaining at Plymouth in a collected form, as calculated to give encouragement to the party of Donna Maria; while, on the other hand, he regarded their dispersion as likely to bring despair and dismay among the friends of
154Mr. Courtenay
212211de jure,de facto210209208 said, that he was principally induced to trouble the House by what fell from his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Home-Department, in reference to his late right hon. friend, Mr. Canning. His right hon. friend had admitted, that in our conduct we had not followed the laws of nations; and, therefore, that conduct was only to be justified, if it were dictated by necessity, and he thought that his right hon. friend meant to settle the whole question, by shewing that the conduct of the Marquis Barbacena had made our proceeding against the refugees unavoidable. But what did the Marquis Barbacena call upon the government to do? To commit he would reply a breach of neutrality, and was that, he would ask, a justification for actually committing a breach of neutrality against the opposite party? He thought not; on the contrary, the condemnation pronounced by the Ministers, on the acts requested to be done, was a condemnation of the act performed. His right hon. friend said, that the parties had contrived to evade the municipal laws of this country, and violated its neutrality by pro-
212211de jure,de facto210209208Mr. Huskisson
 repeated his statement with respect to the introduction of additional Taxes into the Consolidation Bill; and declared his conviction, that as to the intended Taxes, they would have the effect of decreasing instead of increasing the Revenue. Ho never knew a Consolidation Bill introduced which did not, like this, augment the burthens of the people.Sir J. Newport
 complained of the non-performance of the promise of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, viz. that an amended Schedule of the comparative Taxation of Great Britain and Ireland should be produced, and put into the hands of Members. It was hard to call upon the House to enter upon the discussion of the subject without having had the documents necessary to its elucidation. He complained also that in the Consolidation Bill, additional Taxes had been introduced, of which no notice or explanation had been given; and he considered the conduct of the Minister highly culpable in that respect.Sir J. Newport
176 said, that he did not mean to follow the learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House through the whole of the lecture he had read it on the laws of nations, he was content with the broad admission of the advocates of Government, that none of the texts or precedents to be found in those laws justified the conduct pursued towards the refugees. He would admit, for the sake of argument, but for the sake of argument only, that the Marquis Barbacena, and the Marquis
176Lord Sandon
229 was convinced that the time had arrived when it was absolutely necessary that something should be done on this important subject. The gross amount of the debts for which insolvents had been discharged was eleven millions sterling; and upon those debts
229Mr. Alderman Thompson
 opposed the Clause, because it took the parties by surprise.Mr. Alderman Wood
 took the opportunity to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Master of the Mint, whether it was intended to continue the coal duties after the payment of the debt now contracted?Mr. Tennyson
 said, that it was his opinion, that at the termination of the debt on the Orphan's Fund, these duties ought entirely to cease. Some legislative measure, therefore, would be necessary, but he thought it ought not to form part of the present Bill. There was no necessity for haste, for it was not probable that the debt on the Orphan's Fund could be discharged before twenty-eight years had elapsed. As to the proposition then before the House, on which he had been consulted, he had given no opinion, and with it Government was not disposed to interfere.Mr. Herries
l.231l.l. declared it to be his opinion, after a great deal of experience on the subject, that there never was any thing so pernicious as the Insolvent Debtors' Act. It operated as an encouragement to fraudulent persons, who found themselves just as well off if they paid only the smallest fraction of their debts as if they had paid the whole. It operated as a legal oppression on an honest man, who was unwilling to recur to the same moans of relieving himself from inevitable embarrassment which were resorted to by the individual who incurred large debts, well knowing that he had not sixpence to pay them with. So strong was this feeling that he had known persons rendered insolvent by unforeseen calamity, who had declared that they would suffer death rather than take the benefit of the Act. It was known, that all the dividends which had been paid under the Insolvent Debtors' Act would not defray half the salaries of the Commissioners of the Insolvent Court. Was that a system to be endured? During the last year 4,000 persons took the benefit of the Act; and probably as many more obtained a release from their creditors under the threat that they would do so. The practice of living in prison on the property of creditors was also carried on to a most scandalous extent. He lived in a situation which enabled him to observe persons who were within the rules of the Fleet; and among others he had seen a person who had lived ten years within those rules, rather than divide his property among his creditors; his father allowing him 400l.231l.l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
232 was unwilling to go into any detailed statement of his opinions on the subject at the present time, as it was not customary or convenient to do so on such an occasion as the present. At the same time, the noble Lord knew that he had no prejudice in favour of arrest. Of the expediency of the proposition for empowering the debtor, without arrest, to apply to the Commissioners for power to divide his property among his creditors, he had considerable doubts. As to that which went to enable creditors to compel their debtors, living in prison, to divide their property among them, if the noble Lord would prepare a clause for the purpose of introducing it in the bill then in progress, he should be happy to give it every possible consideration. As to a Committee of Inquiry, he should be happy to accede to any proposition for the appointment of one. He would not pledge
232The Attorney General
s.234 said, that as at present advised, he had no objection to consign the consideration of the subject to a committee. Though he had no doubt that there was humanity enough in that House to protect the unfortunate debtor, it ought never to be forgotten that the creditor was the party best represented in it. He was afraid that the proposition for allowing a man to declare himself voluntarily an insolvent, would strike at the root of that credit which was so necessary to the transaction of the ordinary business of daily life. He was therefore not prepared to go along with that proposition. He agreed with the noble Lord, that it was incumbent upon them, whilst they gave every proper facility to the debtor, to take care that he was not permitted to set his creditor at defiance. He could not agree with the hon. Member opposite, that every debtor who was unable to pay 20s. in the pound to his creditor ought merely to be considered in the light of a trustee for his creditors. Morally speaking, undoubtedly he was so,—but how injurious would, it be to give every creditor
s.234The Solicitor General
 thought that a settlement between debtor and creditor could never be attained without some power of arrest for debt. He was not aware of any country having entirely abandoned the principle of imprisonment for debt. Much had been talked of fraudulent debtors, and unfortunate debtors, but the shades of difference between them were innumerable, and even tinged by improvidence, profligacy, want of care or of knowledge, and other circumstances. He believed the instances of creditors pressing upon debtors were few, and the fault was rather the other way.Mr. Baring
 presented a Petition from one Lewis Levi, a Jew, praying that the House would pass a declaratory law, in order to remove all doubts which might at present exist as to the power of the Jews to hold landed property in fee. He concurred entirely with the petitioner in thinking such a law was necessary. The petitioner had informed him, that neither he nor those Jews with whom he was acquainted, wished for the elective franchise. They merely wanted the rights of property.The Solicitor General
 said, that the petitioner, it appeared, wished the rights of property to be secured to him, but was indifferent to all civil privileges. He had the right to say this for himself, but not to utter this opinion on behalf of others. Of his own knowledge he could say, that there was a general expectation and hope among the Jews, that the same justice would be extended to them as to other persons dissenting from the Church of England. He was prepared to support their wishes by his vote, for he thought no disability should attach to any man on account of his religious opinions.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 assured the hon. Member that he would not have presented the Petition if it had contained any thing of the sort. He had only repeated what the petitioner had verbally said to him.The Solicitor General
 said, he would take the liberty of informing the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was his intention to move for certain Returns respecting the Press of Ireland. He wished the right hon. Gentleman to consider well before he proceeded further in his proposed measure of taxation; and he hoped he would see reason to abandon it altogether. In saying this, he begged to be understood, not as contending against, but in favour of, an increase in the Revenue. And he was anxious to impress it upon the English Members, and on the right hon. Gentleman himself, that in proceeding with this subject he would not only lose revenue, but extinguish revenue altogether, and also take away the means of existence from a large class of his Majesty's subjects; for, in fact, the Press of Ireland could not survive the new duties. The hon. Member concluded by moving for a return of the amount of Stamp duties received for Newspapers in Ireland during each of the last twenty years; and also for a similar return of the Duties on Advertisements.Mr. Spring Rice
l.l. was satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman was misinformed respecting the state of Ireland when he proposed to augment the Stamp duties. He was fortified in this opinion by the statements respecting the distress prevailing in that part of the kingdom, which had been made during the Session. The present measure was, in his opinion, decidedly calculated, though he hoped not intended, to extinguish the expression of public opinion in Ireland. Within a few years the duty on Newspapers had diminished from 25,000l.l.Mr. O'Connell
l.d.s.l.d.s. expressed his sorrow at perceiving that it was the intention of government to add to the duties already existing in Ireland. The system of increased duties had been tried in Ireland, had failed, and been abandoned. He believed that, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer should persist in his measure, he would reap, not a harvest of revenue, but only a harvest of discontent. He had on a former occasion proposed a reduction of the rate of duty, with a view to increase the revenue, and his expectations had been fully answered. When the duty on Spirits was 5l.d.s.l.d.s.Sir J. Newport
274Whom? but the false and faulty.""False honour charms, and lying slander scares,273272271270Manuel269l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Cour de Cassation,l.l.268Arrondissements.Premiere Instance,l.l.Juges de paix,l.l.l.267l.l.266l.l.265l.264263l.l.l.tort,l.l.l.262261260l.l.s.s.259s.l.l.s.,l.l.s.l.l.l.s.;s.l.l.l.s.l.l.258s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.257foro contentioso.l.tort.256255Regiam Majestatem.Regiam Majestateml.s.254253l.l.l.l.252251l.d.s.l.250l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.249l.s.l.d.ss.s.l.l.l.l.l.248l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.247l.l.l.l.l.l.l.246l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.245l.l.l.l.244:—I have now, Sir, to call the attention of the House to a subject which I brought under its notice upwards of two years ago; and I ought, perhaps, to begin by explaining why I did not renew the consideration of it at an earlier period than the present. In consequence of the motion I then made, two Commissions were issued for the purpose of instituting inquiries into the state of the Common Law and of Equity. Both commissions have since made reports on the subjects referred to them. The Equity Commissioners have made one report, and a second may, I understand, soon be expected from them. The Common Law Commissioners have made two reports. If I had pursued the subject after the first Report had been published, I should have done it under every disadvantage; for the commissioners then disclosed their doubts and difficulties on several questions, and announced their second Report, in which they said that many of these questions would receive their decision. Of course it was impossible for me to know what to do, till I knew what course they would adopt. Let it not here escape notice, that I am anxious to express my perfect and entire satisfaction at the manner in which the commissioners have discharged their duty—They have proceeded with the greatest possible deliberateness, and although much remains to be performed, the portion of the subject they have investigated is unquestionably of paramount importance. I therefore do not complain that they have treated the question before them too lightly, and certainly I do not complain of the inadequate execution of the duties imposed upon them. I hold their inquiry to have been conducted in. a proper spirit, pursuing a middle course between rashness and subserviency—neither setting too much at naught the long-pondered decisions of authority, nor evincing that overstrained respect for existing institutions which too often de-
274Whom? but the false and faulty.""False honour charms, and lying slander scares,273272271270Manuel269l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Cour de Cassation,l.l.268Arrondissements.Premiere Instance,l.l.Juges de paix,l.l.l.267l.l.266l.l.265l.264263l.l.l.tort,l.l.l.262261260l.l.s.s.259s.l.l.s.,l.l.s.l.l.l.s.;s.l.l.l.s.l.l.258s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.257foro contentioso.l.tort.256255Regiam Majestatem.Regiam Majestateml.s.254253l.l.l.l.252251l.d.s.l.250l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.249l.s.l.d.ss.s.l.l.l.l.l.248l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.247l.l.l.l.l.l.l.246l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.245l.l.l.l.244Mr. Brougham
276275 said, he did not rise to oppose his hon. and learned friend's Motion, but to make a few observations on what had fallen from him in the course of his able and eloquent speech. In the first place, he begged to disclaim any participation in the charges which his hon. and learned friend stated had been brought against him for the course which he had thought proper to pursue. Though he was not aware that any such reproaches had been cast on his hon. and learned friend, he was sure that no man in the House was less deserving of them, or more deserving the gratitude of the country, on account of his zeal and discretion in promoting reform, than his hon. and learned friend. The House would not expect that he should follow his hon. and learned friend into the ample field which he had entered on the present occasion, more particularly as he did not come prepared, by the terms of the notice, to hear so profound and learned a discussion. The proposition submitted to the House appeared to him very important, and he thought it was due, both to the subject and, to his hon. and learned friend, to allow him to introduce his Bill. His hon. and learned friend's object appeared to be, not to alter, but to add to the Constitution; and to add to it by re-
276275The Attorney General
l.279278277 said, that his hon. and learned friend had prefaced his admirable address by an apology to those who had acted with so much credit to themselves in the commission of law inquiry, and stated, that he had taken up this subject because they had not touched upon the points which formed the main subject of his address. It was not competent for them to enter into the subject of any new courts, but to examine into the old; their attention being solely confined to measures for improving the practice of the superior courts of law. In their second Report those learned persons had made several suggestions for improving the practice in the common-law courts, to which, if the learned Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General) would turn his attention, he would find that they would tend much to render the practice in those courts more efficient, and less expensive than at present. He concurred with the
l.279278277Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
283l.sine qua non,s.s.l.282l.l.l.281l.l.280 only wished to address a few words to the House upon the main subject under consideration. It could not be necessary for him to say that it was not his intention to offer any impediment to the introduction of the Bill proposed, for he had placed on record his concurrence in so much of the principle and detail of the proposition, that it was quite impossible for him to dissent from the Motion, though the hon. and learned Gentleman's plan differed in some respects from the considerations he had submitted to the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman went farther than he had been disposed to go, but both measures were based on the same principle; and in the principle of the proposition he cordially concurred. The time had arrived when it was desirable to facilitate the recovery of small debts, and bring justice in this respect as near as possible to the homes of the people. Expenses should be lessened, and he felt no objection to the establishment of Local Courts. He was aware of the objections which applied to exclusive and corporate jurisdictions, but it would be very easy to establish Local Courts to execute the general law of the land, and to steer clear of the evils which applied to local jurisdictions guided by local rules. Much had been said with reference to the inexpediency of cheap justice. If by cheap justice they were to understand bad justice, he acknowledged that nothing could be a greater evil than to make that cheap; but the introduction of cheap and good justice was not open to the objections by which cheap and bad justice might be assailed. He was well aware that it was desirable to keep down a litigious spirit amongst the population, but there was much less evil in that, than in a total denial of justice, for the purpose of preventing such a spirit. It was difficult to define what was a litigious spirit. The sums trifling to one man might be important to another, and he who appealed for the recovery of his wages, the amount of which might appear to some of little concern, might feel the loss of seven
283l.sine qua non,s.s.l.282l.l.l.281l.l.280Mr. Secretary Peel
285l. acknowledged, that the evils arising from a variety of practice would be mitigated, by an appeal to the superior courts; but in most advantages there was some corresponding evil; and here if was evident that the poor suitor would not be able to prosecute his appeal, and therefore, that the administration of justice would not be altogether equal. He had already expressed his opinion against Local Courts, and he saw no reason to change it; still he had no objection to these Local Courts for the recovery of small debts. But then, as under all circumstances, the jurisdiction must be local, and therefore the Judge would be resident. Now this would at once let them into many difficulties. The Judge could not be a practising barrister, because, if he attended to his judicial duties, his practice must dwindle away; and if the contrary, his judicial duties must be neglected. In the next place, it was to be considered, that this officer would, if he might be allowed the expression, degenerate from year to year. And with respect to the appeal to the Judge of Assize, with whom he was to sit during the hearing, he thought nothing could be more objectionable, because nothing could more strongly tend to lower this local Judge in his own opinion, or in that of the persons amongst whom he administered justice. For suppose that any unfortunate gentleman, acting in this capacity, had fallen into errors, and that his hon. and learned friend were the superior Judge to explain to him what the law of the case was, in what a pitiable situation would not this local dignitary be? As to the amount of salary, he was of opinion it could not be less than 1,500285l.The Solicitor General
 explained, that he had a high sense of the talents of many of the Judges who sat in the Privy Council, but he thought it was a mockery when men professed to decide according to a law of which they were ignorant.Mr. Fergusson
viva voce289288 in reply, said, that many of the observations which had been addressed to the House upon the difficulties
viva voce289288Mr. Brougham
292 said, he did not mean at that time to enter into details, but he wished to state, that unless the Bill were materially altered he should be under the necessity of opposing it. Any measure which, like this, tended to deteriorate the condition of the Judges in Canada, would do injury; but what he wished to insist on was, that before the House legislated for that colony, it was necessary that its
292Mr. Labouchere
 put in his claim, in the next stage, to state his opinions upon the question at length; and observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not by this Bill redeemed all his pledges.Mr. Hume
 feared, that the Bill would not tend to put an end to the divisions in the colony.Lord Sandon
241 did not think that any man's character ought to be thus as it were kept afloat on the authority of mere allegation in a petition. It was unjust towards any man to suspend charges over
241Sir C. Wetherell
l.l.,s.233 was very desirous that a committee should be appointed to examine the state of the law respecting debtor and creditor, and concurred with the hon. member for Bristol, that until the result of that inquiry should be ascertained, the best course would be to re-enact the present Bill for a short period. Such a subject could never be satisfactorily discussed in a popular assembly. It ought to be referred to a committee composed partly of professional and partly of commercial men. The present law held out no inducement to honesty: it held out no inducement to humanity; for the creditor who was the most pressing was paid, while the creditor who refrained witnessed the extinction of the means of satisfying his claim. As to the amount of the debts of insolvents during the continuance of the Act being eleven millions, it ought to be remembered that the amount of each debt was repeated in the schedule two or three times, it was true that the dividends were trivial; but that was because the debtors had no temptation to make them greater. If they had, they would disclose their insolvency, and make a division of their properly at an earlier period. Why not hold out to insolvents the same temptation as to bankrupts? If a bankrupt, by an early disclosure of his
l.l.,s.233 Mr. D. W. Harvey
 admitted, that the allegation ought by no means to be taken as true, till it had been examined and proved; but it certainly deserved inquiry; and he pledged himself that the Mayor should have the full opportunity of repudiating the charge; for he would, at an early opportunity, make a Motion on the subject.Mr. O'Connell
240 said, he had sent the copies of the petitions to the Secretary for
240Mr. O'Connell
 presented a Petition from the Traders, Manufacturers, and Artisans of the Town of Galway, in favour of the Galway Franchise Bill. The petitioners stated, that that bill would have the effect of restoring them to those rights which their ancestors had exercised, and they prayed that a petition which had been presented, as from the Mayor and Corporation of the Town of Galway, might be dismissed—the petition not deserving that character, for though the Corporate Seal had been affixed to it, the petition had not been agreed to at a Corporate Meeting.Mr. O'Connell
l.,235 complained of the present system of law, by which a debtor could postpone the period of settling with his creditors for three, six, or even nine months, by setting up fictitious defences. Was it not disgraceful that a defendant was not brought at once before a judge, and called upon to state immediately the
l.,235Mr. O'Connell
hear, hear242 had a right to reply to the liberal or illiberal discourse of the hon. and learned Gentleman who was now liberal enough in assailing him, and would have been liberal enough to keep him out of that House if he could. He had, however, been returned, and being there, had the same privileges as the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would ask whether the petitions contained one single particle against the hon. and learned Solicitor General? It was not his fault if the complaints that had been stated to him were unfounded—and whether they deserved consideration or not, he had felt he could not bring them forward in the absence of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He wished to add, that since the petitions had been given to him, a report of the trial had appeared, edited by a most respectable Barrister, and the reading of that report had given him a different view of the subject, and he should, therefore, abstain from presenting the petitions till he had evidence to show him that the former accusations were just, and that that book was incorrect. He had some reason to think that the book was not incorrect, as the author of it was a gentle-
hear, hear242Mr. O'Connell
 did not know what the Irish newspapers had reported of him; but what he knew was, that his statements had been made on the authority of communications made to him. If the facts were as they had been represented to him, he should certainly bring the matter forward; but he should not do so till he was assured as to the truth of these facts. The discussion of the Irish Estimates would give him the opportunity of calling for other returns, which would enable him to decide upon the propriety of the allegations in the petitions, and to determine whether he would bring them forward or not. At present he was not in possession of sufficient evidence to justify him in calling the attention of the House to the subject.Mr. O'Connell
287Hamlet,l.l.286 said, it was late, but as the subject was one of vital importance, he trusted he might be allowed to offer a few observations to the House. The alterations proposed by the hon. and learned Member were of undoubted utility. Their object was, to bring home justice to the door of every man in the country.
287Hamlet,l.l.286Mr. O'Connell
236 said, that he had not spoken at all that evening about the legislative union of the two countries; all that he had said was, to express a wish that there was the same code of laws in England and Ireland relating to bankruptcy. At present there were two codes, or at least it was doubtful whether there were not two. Some years ago the bankrupt law of England was altered, but the alterations, either designedly or unintentionally, had not been extended to Ireland. The first clause of the Act making those alterations repealed all prior laws affecting
236Mr. O'Connell
 said, they had no code in France, it was only half a code.Mr. O'Connell
243 said, it was his intention to do so when that House had furnished him with the fitting documents. The question he should then submit to the House involved this important question—how far Counsel for the Crown were justified, when they had in their possession documents which proved a witness for the Crown to be perjured, in proceeding for a conviction on his testimony? He could not move for the documents he now referred to before the close of the last Cork Assizes; they were now over, and
243Mr. O'Connell
l. was glad to find that the hon. and learned Gentleman had no objection to an investigation by a Committee. Under those circumstances, he thought the House ought merely to re-enact the former bill for the present, leaving all new provisions to be considered after the appointment of the Committee. Alteration ought certainly not. to precede inquiry. The city which he had the honour to represent was exceedingly alarmed at the proposed alteration with respect to the amount for which a debtor might be arrested. It was well known that nine-tenths of the debts contracted with retail traders were under the amount of 100l.Mr. Bright
 concurred in the wish of having the law of England and Ireland assimilated on this subject. He happened to know that it was intended to amend the bankrupt law in England; and till that was done, it would be folly to introduce the English system into Ireland.Mr. Doherty
 would not press the former question further, but he wished to put another to the hon. and learned Member. After the trials which had lately taken place in Cork, the hon. and learned Member stated, at a public meeting, that he should avail himself of the power he possessed as a Member of that House, to drag him (Mr. Doherty) to its bar to answer for his conduct. He now wished to ask the hon. and learned Member whether he intended to bring forward any accusation respecting those trials?Mr. Doherty
 could not conceive how several of the topics on which the hon. and learned member for Clare had touched bore upon the subject then under discussion. The hon. and learned Member was fond of declaiming about the legislative union of the two countries; but he would take that opportunity of informing that hon. and learned Member, that whenever he should bring forward his threatened motion upon that subject, he should be prepared to meet him.Mr. Doherty
 observed, that the conduct of the hon. and learned Member would be quite becoming and proper, if he had not already made the charges contained in these petitions matter of such notoriety, and if he had not forwarded the petitions to the Irish Government. But the hon. and learned Member had even gone further, for, unless the press of Ireland had most grossly misrepresented him, he had, at the late assizes in Ireland, most directly and positively asserted that his (Mr. Doherty's) conduct or misconduct should be made the subject of parliamentary inquiry. Under these circumstances, the hon. and learned Member, having gone so far, was bound to go further, and give him the opportunity of clearing his character.Mr. Doherty
 said, that the conduct of the hon. and learned member for Clare, with respect to the Petition reflecting upon the Mayor of Galway, which he had just presented, was most fair and honourable. He had no doubt that the hon. and learned Member would act with equal candour towards another individual, and he therefore begged to ask, when he meant to present those petitions, copies of which he had sent to the Secretary for Ireland, and which reflected strongly on the character of the individual who was then addressing the House?Mr. Doherty
 agreed with the hon. member for Aberdeen, that if the statement made were true, a fraud had been practised on the House; but he must confess, that he was inclined to refuse credit to that allegation in the Petition; first, from his personal knowledge of the Mayor of Galway, who was a most respectable man; but further, because the petition referred to, from beginning to end, was in spirit a Corporate petition—substantiating, maintaining, and asserting, the rights of the Corporation itself. He agreed however, that an inquiry ought to be instituted into the truth of the allegations.Mr. North
 said, that if the petitioner had stated the opinions of other persons in his Petition, he would oppose it being laid on the Table.Mr. Hume
 submitted, that the hon. and learned member for Clare, having answered the question put to him, and having declared what was the line of conduct he should pursue, the hon. and learned Member opposite had no right to press him further.Mr. Hume
239 said, the statement made in this Petition, if truly made, and capable of being substantiated, was one that considerably affected the privileges of that House. If the Mayor had really been guilty of affixing the Corporate Seal to the petition without the authority of the Corporation, he had been guilty of a fraud on the House, and deserved its severest reprehension. He trusted that
239Mr. Hume
 heard with pleasure the declaration of the Solicitor General, that he considered it desirable to have the whole subject of the debtor and creditor law of the country submitted to investigation. He was convinced that the abolition of arrest would not of itself be productive of good. Along with the abolition of the system of arrest,—that system which had spread so much demoralization throughout the country—the House should introduce some plan for the more easy and expeditious recovery of debts. Unless the House combined these two measures, it would only outrage the feelings of those who thought that they had an interest in maintaining the law as it now stood. Hundreds of solicitors and traders had informed him, that they would make no objection to the first measure, provided they were sure of obtaining the latter. He thought that a great many of the provisions of the Scottish law on the subject of debtor and creditor might be introduced into the English law with great advantage, particularly that which gave the majority of an insolvent's creditors the power of giving him a conditional discharge, provided they deemed the offer made to the body of creditors fair and equitable.Mr. Hume
237 thought, that in the bill for the emancipation of the Jews, a clause might be inserted to continue to the petitioner all the benefits of his present disabilities, with which he seemed so contented. He was cure that this indi-
237Mr. Spring Rice
 approved of many of the principles laid down by the hon. and learned Mover, but could not entirely agree with all his suggestions. Much had already been done, and more might be effected; but every thing could not be gained now and at once. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Home Department, to whom he was happy to have that opportunity of expressing his obligations, was the first Minister of this country who had opened this career of improvement, and he trusted it would be followed until the whole body of the law was reviewed, and all necessary and proper alterations made in it. That was the only method of legal reform our institutions would permit. They could not be changed at once, but must be modified in detail as necessity required. The hon. and learned member for Clare had complained of what he called the constant alteration of the Judge-made law, but no codification could prevent that evil; for though the clearest rules might be laid down, it was impossible to make them applicable to every case that might arise. Their application must depend too on the individuals who administered the law. That was shewn to be the case in France.Mr. C. Wynn
 answered, that there was a code, but it did not meet, and it was impossible to make a code to meet every case. He was opposed to the establishment of local tribunals, for he feared the operation of partialities and prejudices on the minds of the Judges who must compose such tribunals; besides which, the want of emulation would operate powerfully upon them, for whether one of these Judges did well or ill he was not capable of advancement, and the system would not produce any eminent men.Mr. C. Wynn
 expressed his obligations to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced the Motion.Mr. Ewart
 decided in the affirmative.The Speaker
 also thought, that the matter was worth inquiring into; for if the Corporate seal had been affixed without the knowledge or authority of the Corporation, it was certainly an improper proceeding on the part of the Mayor. He would not use such harsh language as to say that it was a fraud, but it was very wrong. It was possible that he might have done it under a misconception of his duty; but if he had, it was fit he should be warned of the impropriety of his conduct.Sir J. Newport
230 declared, that he was every day more and more convinced of the necessity of some material change in the law upon this subject. It had been said that the retail trader would have no protection unless he had the privilege of arresting his debtor. That he denied. But if the tradesman had no such privilege, he would look more closely to the character of those whom he trusted. The amount of debts for which insolvents had been discharged, and the small dividend which creditors had received, as stated by the hon. Alderman, were principally owing to trades men having given credit to those to whom they ought not to have given credit, and to whom, were there no arrest for debt, they would not have given credit. It was said, that the trade of the country could not be car-vied on unless the creditor possessed
230Sir John Newport
228 presented a Petition for the amendment of the law respecting Insolvent Debtors, from Mr. Henry Dance, a respectable individual, who having for some time held an official situation in the Insolvent Debtors' Court, was thereby rendered peculiarly competent to express an opinion upon the subject. The prayer of the Petitioner was, that a Debtor, instead of being arrested, should have power to apply to the Insolvent Court for permission to divide his property among his creditors; and also, that creditors should have power to compel an imprison-
228 Lord Althorp
 said, that he should never advocate a system by which the fraudulent debtor should be allowed to go scot free, but some measure ought to be adopted to exempt the unfortunate from incurring the same punishment as the guilty.Lord Althorp
284 remarked, that the difficulty attending his hon. and learned friend's proposition was peculiarly this, that a Judge ought always to act in the face of a large and intelligent bar; for thus was a pure and correct administration of justice best secured to the suitors in a court. The suggestion of an appeal to the Assizes, from the decision of this local Judge, was different from any he had ever heard, and he thought it presented many advantages. It was not an expensive appeal; it was within the reach of any of the suitors; and the consciousness that his decisions might be examined and revised by the Judge of Assize, was likely to exercise a salutary influence upon the local Magistrate. It would prevent partiality, and even the suspicion of partiality, from the Judge being in the neighbourhood, and removed all the objections which had been made to the plan, from its analogy to the Welsh system. He was of opinion that this Judge ought decidedly to be a practising barrister; and he thought, that the disadvantages which might result from any diminution of practice would be recompenced by the reporting of cases to the superior courts, by which his knowledge of the law, as it actually stood, would be always kept alive. For these various reasons, he trusted the
284Lord Althorp
 said, that the hon. Baronet referred to, had been inadvertently, and not intentionally, excluded; for his own part, he had no objection that the hon. Baronet should be placed on the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.306 objected to the grant, and stated that the force was too great. In 1792 there were only fifty officers of Engineers, while at present there were 250. The number of Engineer officers was greater now than in 1802, although at that time Bonaparte wielded the power of France, and
l.306Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in saying that the Engineer officers were more numerous now than in 1802. The fact was, that if the increase of places where they were required, and the different distribution of their duties were taken into account, their number would be found to be proportionately less than at that period. The number then required for the Colonies was sixty-nine, but at present no more than sixty were employed. The whole establishment of Sappers and Miners was under the command of Engineer officers, and these, together with the number employed upon surveys and in the Irish districts, and those required in the barrack department, fully accounted for the apparent increase of the number of this corps. To all these circumstances he might subjoin the number of Colonies added since the time referred to, and when every thing was considered, he was justified in saying, that comparing the different services they now performed, the number was less than at that period. He might also mention, that the Engineer corps must be kept up in time of peace for the instruction of young officers.Mr. Perceval
 said, that additional taxes were about to be imposed on Ireland, if, indeed, the people did not, in a constitutional manner, so strongly oppose the measure as to prevent the right hon. Gentleman from carrying it into effect. He wished to prevent the necessity of this, by reducing the establishments, for Ireland was, with respect to her power to bear taxation, a very poor country, and really not able to support the burthen of any more direct taxes. If, therefore, the hon. member for Montrose would propose any reduction of the Irish expenditure, he should have his hearty support.Mr. O'Connell
d.l. defended the Engineer corps, which, he said, was incessantly employed, and the officers of which supplied the place of jobbing architects and surveyors' clerks, and being paid 2d.l.Colonel Trench
 said, that this establishment must necessarily be kept up, for if it were destroyed, its re-organization would be extremely difficult, not to say impossible, when circumstances should call for it.Lord Edward Somerset
l.l. did not think these men were profitably employed; they only wasted the materials, for their work itself was not wanted. Having the men we were compelled to find them employment. A sum of 389,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that notwithstanding the recommendations of the Finance Committee, that this corps should be reduced—it was now to a man as numerous, and to a pound as expensive, as it was before those recommendations had been made.Mr. Hume
 defended the vote, on the ground that the new Colonies required more artillery. The new Driver corps, also did the duties of Artillery men.Lord E. Somerset
 denied, that these things were sufficient to justify this increase of expense in time of peace. By keeping up so large a corps we did but add to the claims on our Pension List. The Lieutenant Commandants were continued, although they could not perform their duty. At least the Government said so, for they insisted on maintaining the office of Lieutenant General of the Ordnance, on the ground that he alone could perform the duty of inspecting the Artillery. Surely both branches of expense were not necessary. He had often been accused of entertaining extravagant ideas, but no ideas he had ever entertained were half so extravagant as those of the Government, who spent the public money without the slightest remorse. He thought the reduction in this department ought to be to the extent of 2,000 men.Mr. Hume
 defied human ingenuity to point out the real utility of the Rocket Troop in time of peace.Mr. Hume
 observed, that the same objection would apply to every other corps. A scientific troop of Rocket-men could not be framed in a day, upon a temporary emergency.Lord E. Somerset
 suggested that the Engineers might soon be converted into Rocket-men. It was admitted that this body of men was of no present use, but it was assumed that the country must bear the expense, as it might be of use at some future period. This sort of proceeding and argument indicated a total absence of sympathy between the extravagant Government and the suffering people.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that efficient economy was not promoted by these trifling objections. These corps ought to be kept up in peace, that they might be ready in war.Lord Howick
 did not feel lessened by the reproof of the noble Lord any more than he should feel exalted by his praise. The objections to these votes were founded upon a due regard to the interests of the people, who still sent some Members to Parliament, though the noble Lord might not be one of them.Mr. O'Connell
 remarked, that the Rocket Troop consisted of only eighty-six men, who performed all the duties of horse artillery.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that it was almost a farce to submit these votes to the House, if, when the sums were small, objections to them were deemed insignificant, and when they were large, resistance was considered an attack upon the great and important interests of the country. In his opinion all these establishments were too numerous and too expensive.Mr. Maberly
 said, he thought the hon. member for Aberdeen was the last person who ought to object to the maintenance of a small but effective corps, for the hon. Member himself belonged to a body which made up by activity for its want of strength and numbers.Mr. Doherty
l. proposed a Resolution for granting 1,223l.Mr. Perceval
 wished to know what were the duties of the Director? andMr. Hume
309 replied, by reading a description of them from the Report of the
309Mr. Perceval
 begged to know whether the recommendations of the Finance Committee on this subject had been attended to?Mr. Hume
 answered in the affirmative.Lord E. Somerset
 thought that the department might be abolished altogether without injury to the service.Mr. Maberly
 observed, that the establishment at Woolwich would be dispensed with by degrees, and as fast as the present members were diminished by the course of nature and other causes.Sir H. Hardinge
 inquired how many young men were there educated, and how many had been admitted last year?Mr. Hume
 replied, to the first branch of the question 124; and to the last twelve.Lord Downes
 wished further to be informed how many of the Cadets were the sons of Artillery Officers?Mr. Hume
 added, that twenty were the sons of Artillery Officers, and ten or twelve the sons of Officers of the Line.Lord Downes
 contended that this fact showed that the Military Academy, instead of being applied to the education of the sons of meritorious officers, was made the nursery for favourites who had no claim upon the country, and who were educated at the public expense, like paupers at a charity school.Mr. Hume
 repelled this charge, and denied that the young gentlemen ought to be considered in the light of paupers educated by public charity; they were entitled to the bounty they received on devoting themselves to the service of their country. He added, that the promises made by Lord Anglesea and his predecessors were fulfilled by Lord Beresford, so far as the cadets were concerned.Sir H. Hardinge
310 thought that the country
310Mr. Maberly
l. said, he was not understood in what he had said. In 1829 there were thirty-two cadets admitted, eighteen of whom were sons of officers, and in 1828, out of twenty-four cadets, eleven were sons of officers. He conceived that a system which cost the country only 3,300l.Sir H. Hardinge
 called the attention of the Committee to the fact, that medical men entering the army were not educated at the public expense, and their education was as expensive as that of any other officer in the army, belonging to any branch of the service. What he wished to see was this—that young men should be educated at their own expense, or that of their friends, up to a certain point, and that such scientific education as the service required might be imparted to them at the public expense. Let the public, by all means, give them the scientific information they might require as artillerymen; but he must say, so long as they remained pensioners of the State, by putting it to unnecessary expense for their education, he could not but call them paupers—he called all persons paupers who took the money of the State without giving value for it. Those might not be very courtly terms, but his sense of truth and justice compelled him to use them—there was no Lord nor Lady who had an undeserved and unnecessary pension who was not a pauper. What had the public to do with the education of the Army? There was no education that he knew of requisite for the Army. The general feeling was, that when a young man was fit for nothing else, he ought to be put into the Army or into the Church.Mr. Hume
 would affirm, that the hon. Member was most unfairly stigmatising those young men. They were just entering into life, and he was calling them paupers without the slightest foundation. Having now treated that observation with the contempt it deserved, he should proceed—Sir Henry Hardinge
 rose to order. The language of the gallant Officer opposite was altogether unbecoming his situation.Mr. Hume
 did not hear the term contempt applied to his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen, or to any other Gentleman; it was perfectly competent to any Member to speak contemptuously of any remark made: the contempt had nothing personal in it.Lord Millon
 had never meant to attach any tiling personal to his observations. He merely desired that it should go forth to the public that he felt contempt for the stigma which had been cast, or rather attempted to be cast, upon those young gentlemen. He had no intention of offering any offence to the hon. member for Aberdeen, who, throughout the whole of the discussions relating to those Estimates, canvassed them with so much good humour, that nothing could be farther from his wish than to treat the remarks of the hon. Member with any undue severity. The gallant Officer then proceeded to say, that what the hon. member for Aberdeen had said respecting the education of medical men was not of much weight, for their education could not fail of being serviceable to them out of the army; whereas that of artillery officers could be of no value to them except in that service. If they wished to keep the corps of Artillery, they had better look to the preservation of the Academy of Woolwich.Sir Henry Hardinge
 concurred in much of what had fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen. He thought that in this case the public ought to provide the means of education, and that the individuals profiting by it ought to pay for the advantages so afforded to them.Lord Howick
312 defended himself and his friends from the accusation of offering indiscriminate opposition to the votes proposed for the public service. Such accusations were exceedingly improper and undeserved. The first and highest duty of the representatives of the people was scrupulously to watch the expenditure of the public money. He wished to know why the Academy at Woolwich could not be placed upon the same footing as the Military College. The students there paid not only more than was necessary, but enough to defray the charges of all the gratuitous education connected with the establishment The hon. member for Aberdeen had said that none but those who were fit for nothing else went into the army; that was, he conceived, quite a mistake: every prudent man in these times would send his son into the army—it was the high road to promotion:
312Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that the fact of young gentlemen being educated at Woolwich, fixed upon them a prohibition, or rather excluded them from serving his Majesty in any other capacity than as artillery officers. Placing them under that disability he thought was enough, without adding to it a charge for an education useless for any other purpose of life.Sir Henry Hardinge
 professed that this explanation was any thing but satisfactory.Mr. R. Gordon
 thought, that if the gratuitous education were removed, there would be no necessity for restricting those persons to one branch of the service.Mr. Warburton
 said, the expense of this stablishment had been greatly reduced since 1821.Lord Downes
 said, that though our artillery might be excellent, he believed it would be admitted that our Navy was as good as any in Europe, yet our College at Portsmouth paid its own expenses.Lord Althorp
 contended, that it would be no hardship to oblige those young men to pay for themselves.Mr. Baring
l.l. contended, that the expense of this establishment was not merely 3,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 advocated the principle of permitting parents to educate their children for the service at their own expense, and therefore opposed the present vote.Sir J. Wrottesley
 objected to the impropriety of having employed the pay appropriated for sixty lieutenants to the support of sixty-four additional cadets.Mr. Hume
 said, that the accounts on this subject required explanation, and the vote must be postponed until the accounts were amended.Mr. Maberly
 said, there was no question but that the vote must be postponed.Mr. Hume
, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and Sir H. Hardinge declared, that a saving had taken place, and that the application of the money was justified by his Majesty's warrantMr. Perceval
, and others, denied that his Majesty's warrant could override the Act of Parliament, which expressly pointed out the application of it.Mr. Hume, Mr. Maberly
l.314 opposed taking the votes in this shape, and contended that it should be taken in five separate items; while the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir H. Hardinge, and Mr. Perceval, maintained, that this was the most convenient mode for taking it; and after a longcon versation upon that point, the Chancellor of the Exchequer consented to withdraw the vote, and so to shape it as to meet the views of the hon. Members opposite.l.314Mr. Maberly, Mr. Hume, and Mr. R. Gordon
316315 said, he rose to state the objections which he entertained to these Estimates generally. He was desirous to take this opportunity to enter his protest against the whole military system of this country. If he had not long entertained such a sentiment, the remarks which he had heard that evening from the military bench opposite, would induce him to adopt it. A gallant Officer opposite had said, that having been in Paris in 1814, he saw the deficiency of the Artillery there compared with ours, and he asked, would we now break down such a superior establishment? The fact was, that his Majesty's Ministers seemed to take for granted that, in time of peace, England should be prepared for war, not in the way in which our ancestors would keep her prepared, but according to the new-fangled doctrines which a desolating war of a quarter of a century's duration had introduced. He meant to contend, that we ought not to keep up a large standing army in time of peace. Our insular situation protected us against the danger of an attack. It was upon that our ancestors depended for defence, and upon our free institutions, and the spirit of our people which grew out of those institutions. He had to complain not only of the Government but of that House, for maintaining the present extravagant military establishment of this country. He took no blame to himself on that head, for ever since the peace he had voted for a reduction of these estimates; and, in the calamitously prosperous years of 1824 and 1825, when hon. Gentlemen appeared to think they could not vote away the public money fast enough, he was proud to say, that he had gone out in a division of seven upon those estimates. He was opposed to the whole military system of this country. Ministers had made a great noise and parade about the reductions which they proposed to make, but the distress of the country would force them to make still greater reductions. If those who were far from that place could depend on the rumours which went abroad of what passed within it, it was not the declared intention—and if it had been the intention it would have been declared—of
316315Lord Milton
 took that opportunity of asking the right hon. Secretary at War whether, at the present moment, there was any sub-lieutenant of artillery on half-pay.Mr. Hume
 said, that there was no sub-lieutenant on half-pay, except such as were disabled and unfit for active service.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that he would take that opportunity of praising the conduct of Government in bringing every officer on half-pay of the Artillery and Marines into full-pay, instead of appointing young men to new commissions. A system, the very reverse of this, had been adopted in the army, by which the country had lost several hundred thousand pounds every year for some years back.Mr. Hume
 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was intended to allow the Committee which had been recently appointed to examine into the subject of Superannuations, to inquire into the amount of Superannuations already granted, and into the degree in which persons to whom such Superannuations had been granted could be brought back to the public service.Mr. Hume
 said, that it was not intended, when that committee was appointed, to allow it to inquire into the superannuations which had been already granted. As to the propriety of bringing back superannuated persons to the public service, that was decidedly one of the objects to which its inquiries would be directed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.317 explained the motives which led him to put that question. About six weeks ago he moved for a return of the number of persons who had been admitted for the first time to civil offices
l.317Mr. Hume
 had a very short answer for that question. Since he had been in the War-office, not a single appointment had been made in it. He believed that since the year 1815, not more than four or five clerks had been appointed altogether by his noble predecessor (Lord Palmerston).Sir H. Hardinge
.—But has there been any appointment of temporary clerks?Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. Member was most likely aware, that some laborious operations had been conducted by the War-office during the last year. Seven or eight of the principal clerks had been sent round to the head-quarters of the different regiments to get in various accounts. During their absence other clerks had boon appointed to perform their duties at a salary of 5.9. a day each. As soon as those inquiries were terminated, those temporary clerks would be dismissed.Sir H. Hardinge
 supposed that this was the foundation of the story which had reached him.Mr. Hume
319l.l.l.l.l.l.318l. asked why we should pay 7,000319l.l.l.l.l.l.318l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l. observed, that it had been stated that all the expenses of barracks and fortifications in the West Indies ought to be paid out of the 4½-per-cent duties. Now those duties had been misappropriated for a long time past, under various pretexts. His hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, had moved for a return of the sums thus obtained during the last few years, and that return had been put into the hands of hon. Members that morning. All persons who held West-Indian property had recently been great sufferers from the depreciation which it had undergone; and as those 4½-per-cent duties were paid in kind, he was afraid, that owing to the depreciation of West-Indian produce, the Crown would not be able to pay the pensions which it had granted upon them. To his great surprise, however, he found, that in the last two years they had doubled, and nearly trebled, their former amount. They used to amount to about 28,000l.l.l.l.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that the Act of Parliament prevented Government from imposing any charges upon these 4½-per-cents in the West Indies, except for the payment of the Church, and some other services. This was the opinion of the law officers of the Crown. The remainder of the expenditure was made up from the general colonial funds.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. said, that the sugar duties had, however, come regularly in, and been carried as usual into the funds of the Exchequer. In 1817, they left a surplus of 2,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that these receipts had been regularly accounted for.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. said, that the expense of the barrack department had been reduced 42,000l.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he would, on a future occasion, oppose this mode of receiving with one hand and paying with another in the public accounts.Mr. Maberly
 said, he would have the subject examined next year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether the barracks at the Mews at Charing Cross, were to be still upheld, to deform the new and expensive improvements made in the same neighbourhood.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that quarters would be kept there for the original number of soldiers.Mr. Perceval
 objected to these barracks, more particularly as it was intended to billet soldiers on those who sold beer under the new regulations. This would, from the great increase of such traders, take away the excuse for having these barracks for military accommodation.Mr. R. Gordon
l gave notice, that he would propose an augmentation of 1,000lSir Charles Forbes
 pointed out the distinction between the duties of the Scotch and English Judges, which was greatly in favour of the former, from the better division of labour. He said, the salaries of the Scotch Judges were raised in 1810, when the articles of life were sold at very high prices, and they had so continued ever since. Considering the present value of money, and the labours of the Judges, he was convinced they were sufficiently paid.Mr. R. Gordon
 Ferguson was much obliged to the Lord Advocate for having introduced this Bill, and he hoped he would carry it through. In his opinion the Scotch Judges ought to receive an additional remuneration.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 presented a Petition from certain Clergymen of the Established Church, who were formerly officers in the Army, praying that the House would take measures to prevent the compulsory attendance of Protestant soldiers at the religious ceremonies of persons of a different persuasion. The hon. Member observed that a few years ago, Roman Catholic soldiers were relieved from the necessity of attending Protestant worship, and he only asked that the same privilege should be extended to Protestant soldiers. Adverting to the case of Captains Aitchison and Dawson, who were tried by a Court Martial at Malta six years before, because they refused to take part in a religious ceremony, the hon. Baronet inquired if at present there was any disposition to review that case, in, a manner favourable to these officers. "He wished that there should be no contest between a man's duty to his God and a soldier's duty to his commander." That principle was, however, sometimes violated, and soldiers who were of the Church of England were compelled to attend on the ceremonies of Catholics. When our troops were last in Portugal, for example, an officer in a small town ordered two officers and sixty men, with the band of the regiment, to parade round the town for several hours, in honour of some patron saint. The commanding officer, he believed, had no evil intention, but he might have hurt the consciences of his men.Sir R. Inglis
 said, that when this Petition was disposed of, he had two petitions of a similar nature to present. He took that opportunity of informing the learned Lord, that there was little or no hostility felt in Scotland to the improvements which he had recently proposed to make in Scotch-law, and of declaring that he was most desirous to render justice more easy and accessible to his fellow-subjects in that part of the United Empire. With this view he would suggest that the present system of appeal should be done away, and that instead of parties having to come to London, as at present, the final appeal should be to a court established in Scotland, like the twelve Judges in England.Mr. Maxwell
 was happy to hear that no hostility was entertained in Scotland to his bill, as he must confess that he had been apprehensive of a different result. The measure which he had recently proposed to the consideration of Parliament was quite as large as any measure which had ever been hitherto proposed for the reformation of Scotch law. He wished the House to deal with his measure on its own merits in the first instance, and afterwards to take into consideration the other suggestions which had been made to it, adopting them where they were useful, and rejecting them when they were shown by argument to be likely to prove detrimental.The Lord Advocate
 said, that if the bill for the transference of heritable securities, which he had brought into Parliament in the year 1823, had been passed at that time, it would have proved highly beneficial to the people of Scotland, and he had no doubt that it would prove equally beneficial to them if it were passed at present. As he had been so pointedly called upon by his hon. friend, he would now declare, that if he thought that it would be agreeable to the House and to the country, he would introduce that same bill again into Parliament during the continuance of the present Session.Mr. Kennedy
303, in moving that it be printed, stated, that he did not wish the religion of any man to be treated with disrespect, but he must, on that very principle, contend that it was wrong to compel our conscientious soldiers to pay homage to religious ceremonies which they disapproved of. He saw nothing in the Orders quoted by the gallant officer to complain of, but he disapproved of our men being obliged to pay more than negative respect to the religious observances of other countries. He did not ask for the revision of the sentence of a Court Martial, but that the officers he had alluded to might, by his Majesty's bounty, be restored to the service. He did not think this too much to ask, because the orders of the Marquis of Hastings, abolishing the practice for not complying with which these officers were punished, was a condemnation of that practice and particularly because their offence was considered to be so slight, that they continued in the discharge of their ordinary duties more than six months after the offence was committed till orders went, out from England to try them by a Court Martial. All that he wished was, that the conscience of the Protestant officer and soldier should be as much protected as the conscience of the professor of a different religion; and that no man, whether he were of the Greek, the Catholic, or the Protestant Church, should be compelled to join in any worship of which his conscience disapproved. If an English regiment were ordered to go to a Roman Catholic Cathedral, and there salute the Host on its elevation, and if any of the officers or men were to be punished for not obeying, that would, in his opinion, be as much compulsion as if they were driven into the Cathedral at the point of the bayonet. The principle involved in this case, therefore, was one of the highest importance, and he could not but say that he had heard with great satisfaction the sentiments which
303Sir Robert Inglis
 said, that the officers alluded to, had fallen a sacrifice to the prejudices of the Government; and that if the hon. member for Oxford would bring forward a motion for granting them compensation, he would-cordially support it. He knew that, many persons would consider the obligation of soldiers to attend any religious ceremonies but those of their own church as very wrong, and that it would debar them from sending their children into the army.Mr. Maxwell
 presented a Petition from the Journeyman Paper-makers of the county of Kent, against the excessive use of Machinery in the manufacture of Paper.Sir E. Knalchbull
305 said, he hoped the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) would not press his motion for an account of all salaries and emoluments received by the Members of his Majesty's Privy Council, on going into the Committee of Supply. All the information which the hon. Baronet
305The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was anxious to have an opportunity of stating his view with respect to the question of superannuations, of full military pay enjoyed by officers having civil allowance, and on another point of great importance—he alluded to sinecures being held by individuals, who otherwise received large allowances. If, however, the returns alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman were satisfactory, it would not be necessary for him to proceed with his motion, but if they were not so, he certainly would persevere, and under that feeling he consented to postpone his motion until the eleventh of May.Sir J. Graham
 thought the prayer of the Petition a very reasonable one. Protestant soldiers ought not to have violence done to their consciences by being compelled to assist at the ceremonies of another religion. The Protestants had been called on by the law to swear that a ceremony was idolatrous, and they were compelled by the same law, to fire salutes and do homage in honour of that very ceremony. Men would not be the worse soldiers for being good Christians, and therefore he should recommend the Petition to the consideration of the Government.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he had found such difficulty in dealing with the amount of compensations which it would be necessary to make on passing his bill for the better regulation of seisins, that he must decline bringing it again under the notice of Parliament. He believed that it would be a most useful measure: but it was in vain for any individual to hope to carry it, unless the matter was taken up with the cordial consent of Government.Mr. H. Drummond
 said, he agreed with the hon. member for Kent, and was of opinion, that the measure would inflict a serious injury on the publicans and common-brewers. He must therefore beg leave to unite his voice to that of the hon. Baronet, and request the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give up his Bill. He could also inform the right hon. Gentleman, that he was not more lucky with Spirits than with Beer, and his measure for augmenting the duty on Corn Spirits had given universal dissatisfaction to the distillers.Mr. Benett
 supported the prayer of the Petition; because, he thought the distress of the petitioners arose from the excessive use of machinery, and what was called Free Trade.Mr. Wells
304 said, he had been requested, by a deputation from the petitioners, who had favoured him with a copy of their Petition, to support its prayer, but he had declined to do so, because he was certain that a compliance with their wishes would add to, instead of diminishing, the general distress. The petitioners could only hope for more employment, by being able to manufacture Paper at a cheaper rate than other people, and they could only do that by employing Machinery. What kept up the price of their produce and kept down their wages was taxation. He had therefore advised these people to petition for a repeal of the tax on Paper, and for the abolition of the Corn-laws. Had these two remedies been applied, their disease would soon be cured. He would not then undertake to shew that the member for Maidstone was in error, he would merely observe, that to renew the restrictions on our trade, or to extend them, would augment the distress of the country tenfold. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer wished, as he believed he did, to alleviate the burthens of the people, he would suspend the vexatious interference of the Excise, which, without adding to the revenue of the State, did most severely aggravate the miseries of the people. If he would abstain from interfering with the mode of manufacturing various commodities, employment would be so much increased that he might levy a greater revenue than
304Mr. Hume
 hoped that, the hon. Member would not be deterred by the difficulty which he had mentioned, from proceeding with his very useful and necessary measure. It was a shame to let the extravagant claims of public servants stand thus in the way of great and important public benefits. If the hon. Member would undertake the management of such a measure, he would have more time than the members of Government to superintend its progress, and to bring it to a successful termination.Mr. Hume
 said, he was unfortunately absent when the right hon. Gentleman moved for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the existing superannuations. If he had been present, he would have opposed such a mockery. It appeared to him, that since the dissolution of the Finance Committee, Ministers had done every thing to prevent proper inquiry. In the formation of this new committee, an hon. Baronet (Sir Henry Parnell) the ablest man, he would say, that ever sat on any committee, had been most unaccountably excluded.Mr. Hume
302 also supported the prayer of the Petition. There was throughout the army he said, a strong feeling on the subject to which the Petition referred, which the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman would by no means satisfy. A clergyman of the Church of England had lately informed him, that he had seen our soldiers, in the island of Corfu, obliged to hold randies in their hands in honour of the Holy Ghost. As his hon. friend had made no impression on the right hon. Baronet, he would, he hoped, prosecute the matter in some other manner. It was proper he thought, for our troops to respect all religions, but that was very different from taking an active part in their ceremonies. At present British officers were obliged to pay respect and homage to a religion which they thought erroneous, and that was a footing on which, in his opinion, such matters ought not to be placed. He regretted, that the recommendation of the governor of Malta, in regard to having all
302Mr. Trant
301 said, he understood
301Sir E. Knatchbull
 in presenting a petition from Mr. James Best, common-brewer, of the county of Kent, against throwing open the trade in Beer, observed, that he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would abandon that measure, and in lieu of it repeal the duty on Malt. The publicans and other parties now engaged in the Beer-trade, would suffer very great hardship by the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposed measure. They had embarked large sums of money in their business, which would be deteriorated or entirely destroyed by the Bill under consideration. The measure had excited much disapprobation throughout the country, and he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not persevere in it.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that carrying candles was quite optional; people going along put candles into the hands of those men near them, but they might carry them or not as they pleased. The only instance of an attempt at compulsion, of which he had heard for a long time, was that of the Scotch regiment in Ireland to which he had alluded.Sir George Murray
299 begged leave to remind the hon. Baronet, that a few years ago, all the soldiers of the British Army, though they might be Catholics or Presbyterians, were compelled to attend the service of the Church of England. That was no longer the case, but even so late as when he held the command of the army in Ireland, instructions were received,
299Sir George Murray
297ad valoremcessio bonorum;296l.l295 presented a Petition from the Writers and Conveyancers of the Towns of Greenock and Port Glasgow, and Practitioners before the Sheriff Court of Renfrewshire, to which he requested the particular attention of the Lord-Advocate; for he was confident, if the learned Lord gave it his attention, he must also give his consent to the just and equitable prayer of the petitioners. The
297ad valoremcessio bonorum;296l.l295Sir M.S. Stewart
324 suggested, that no persons
324Mr. Heathcote
 could also inform the Ministers, that a considerable degree of alarm and apprehension prevailed in the county of Lancaster, where it was supposed that much mischief would ensue from these new houses not being under the control of the magistrates. He was of opinion that, as the Bill then stood, it would cause considerable inconvenience; and he hoped that it would receive several modifications before it was passed into a law.Lord Stanley
 expressed his hope, that when the Bill came before a committee, some means might be found to prevent effectually those scenes of drunkenness and debauchery which it was to be apprehended would ensue, from one end of the kingdom to the other, if the Bill were passed in its present state.Mr. Denison
 hoped, that such restrictions would be introduced as would prevent the occurrence of those scenes which many Gentlemen anticipated, if the measure were allowed to remain in its present shape; but he wished at the same time, that the spirit of free competition in the Beer-trade should be preserved.Mr. Slaney
 said, his object was, to have a free trade in Beer, without any restriction as to its being drunk on the premises where it was sold. At the same time, he was willing and ever anxious to hear any suggestions which would tend to make the Bill more palateable to those whose interests ought to be considered; so far as that could be done without infringing on the principle of the measure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in presenting a Petition from the Manufacturers, Tradesmen, and others of Heaton Norris, against the Truck-system, stated, that this system gave great advantages to a few rich men, who acquired immense profits at the expense of the labourers. On a former occasion, he had supported a Bill brought in by a friend of his, to put a stop to this system; but the operation of that Bill was limited to two years. At present, the masters had joined the workmen, in complaining of this system; which was as injurious to the manufacturers who did not adopt it, as to the workmen who were its more immediate victims. He heartily concurred in the prayer of the Petition, and he would give the measure of his hon. friend, the member for Staffordshire, all the support in his power.Lord Stanley
 Dawson replied, that such was the intention of Government.Mr. George
329 said, he believed, and indeed he knew, that this Petition would be followed by many others of a similar nature. He gave notice, that whenever the proposition to commit the Forgery-bill should be
329Sir J. Macintosh
 said, he was in such a situation, that however anxious he was to comply with the wishes of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he could not make any promise on the subject. There was so much public business to be proceeded with, that it was not in his power to give any pledge to the right hon. and learned Gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
335lll334llllllll333lllannus mirabilisllllllllll332ll28,000In 1829
28,000In 182927,000In 1828
27,000In 1828£40,000In 1803 it was
£40,000In 1803 it was
28,000In 1829
28,000In 182927,000In 1828
27,000In 1828£40,000In 1803 it was
£40,000In 1803 it waslllex his disce omnes,331330 said, that any observer of the proceedings of the House, not thoroughly acquainted with its constitution, might sometimes be surprised at the manner in which Members voted away the money of their constituents. Most hon. Gentle-men, when the question of Supply came
335lll334llllllll333lllannus mirabilisllllllllll332ll28,000In 1829
28,000In 182927,000In 1828
27,000In 1828£40,000In 1803 it was
£40,000In 1803 it was
28,000In 1829
28,000In 182927,000In 1828
27,000In 1828£40,000In 1803 it was
£40,000In 1803 it waslllex his disce omnes,331330Mr. R. Gordon
 said, he would support the hon. Member in objecting to the items he had mentioned.Lord Rancliffe
 said, that his hon. friend had gone so much into details, that he thought it would be better to answer his observations on each item, as it came before the Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred in the observations of his hon. friend, and thought that the principle upon which Government proceeded was wrong. Public works, if they were really required, ought to be carried into effect at once, and not executed piece-meal, from a false economy; on the contrary, if they were not required, they ought never to be commenced under any pretence whatever. By not attending to these principles, immense sums had been wasted. The Breakwater at Plymouth—a really useful undertaking—had, by being carried on through so long a period of time, been made unnecessarily expensive to the public. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman that it would be better to allow the House to go into a committee, postponing such items as were objectionable, for the purpose of its being examined into by a committee up stairs.Lord Althorp
336 said, that he also concurred in the propriety of first going into a Committee of Supply, and then, referring every item of the Estimates that was in the least objectionable to a committee up stairs. The House had been repeatedly drawn into voting money, under the idea
336Sir John Newport
lll complained of the very heavy charges incurred in some of those Estimates. At a time when taxation was reduced in England, but when it was increased in Ireland, when great distress prevailed in that country, and was every day becoming more severely felt, it was intolerable that a sum of 160,000lllMr. O'Connell
338Cries of "Order".337l was of opinion, that a Committee of Supply was not the place for entering into the facts of a case; one assertion was always met by another, and nothing further could be got at. He contended that the sums proposed to be voted under the heads of the five numbers now to be submitted to the Committee, amounting to 1,625,000338Cries of "Order".337lMr. Hume
 could not consent to the proposition of sending the Estimates to a select committee up stairs, because he thought the responsibility of Ministers ought not to be thus delegated to a body of men who were not responsible. Where inquiry was shown to be necessary on a particular vote he would not object, but he was opposed to the principle of sending the whole Estimates for inquiry, which ought to be presented to the House on the responsibility of Ministers. He was not disposed to follow the example of America, for from what he heard of the proceedings with respect to public works there, he was not disposed to think them very free from jobbing and corruption.Sir M. W. Ridley
 would be glad if his hon. friend (Sir M. W. Ridley) would point out any one instance of practical responsibility on the part of Ministers. Let the House look at the whole conduct of Government—at its foreign and domestic policy, carried on against the opinions of the people,—at Ministers coming down to that House, proposing and carrying any measure they pleased,—at their disregard for the recommendations of committees, and their continuance of appointments of which those committees had recommended the abolition—and then say what became of responsibility. When they thought themselves weak, then, indeed, they were all candour and deference to the opinion of the public; but when they saw any symptoms of division or doubt in their adversaries, then they speedily assumed again their tone of arrogance and defiance. Let them only look at the Lieutenant-generalcy of the Ordnance. Twice had a Committee recommended the abolition of that office, and still was it kept up, though he had no hesitation in pronouncing it a most gross job.Colonel Davies
ll339 said, before addressing the Committee relative to the items which he should have the honour to propose to them, he would make a few remarks on what had fallen from his hon. friend (Mr.
ll339Mr. G. Dawson
, interrupting the hon. Member, said, that to save him trouble, he would state, that he was right as to the increase, but was mistaken as to the date. He should have said increased in 1829, as compared with 1828.Mr. R. Gordon
lll340 would state the cause of that difference: the increase over the Estimate of 1828 was from having added the amount of taxes for paving and lighting and watching the different public-offices and houses of Parliament. In reference to these objections, it was only due to the present Chancellor of the Exchequer to state, that since his accession to office, no public work had been undertaken of which an estimate was not previously made, in order to form a judgment as to the expenditure it was likely to induce. Since the year 1824, the Miscellaneous Estimates had been gradually declining in amount, and
lll340Mr. G. Dawson
 said, he could only repeat the statement he had already made, which was correct in every particular but one. He should have taken the year 1828 instead of 1829. The item ought certainly to be referred to a committee above stairs.Mr. R. Gordon
l observed, that a saving in respect to furniture for public-offices, and repairs amounting to 12,000lMr. Dawson
Belle colonne! che fatevi qui?342"Diruit, ædificat, mutat quadrata rotundis."341 wished to ask the noble Lord opposite whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to grant the public access to St. James's Park by Waterloo-place? He had on a former occasion stated, that if they did not do so, he should feel it his duty to move an address to the Crown. Existing circumstances prevented him from carrying that now into effect, but although deferred for the present, it should assuredly be fulfilled in the event of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests persevering in their determination. That public works should be exempted from public inspection, was a principle at once unconstitutional, unjustifiable, and repugnant to common sense. It was in the highest degree absurd, to pretend that Government should peremptorily decide on the mode in which the public works of a great and powerful metropolis, like London, were to be carried on, without any reference to the opinions or wishes of the inhabitants. Were their complaints to be silenced with the answer, that they were not entitled to exercise any control over matters in which they were so essentially interested,—that this was not a fit subject for interference or inquiry, but should be left to the responsibility of men in office? He quite agreed with the hon. member for Cricklade, in thinking that a fairer question could not be laid before a committee, and he should vote with him accordingly. The object, however, which he had more immediately in view, was the entrance to St. James's Park, already alluded to, with respect to which he would
Belle colonne! che fatevi qui?342"Diruit, ædificat, mutat quadrata rotundis."341Mr. Hobhouse
l then moved, that the vote should be 10,000lMr. R. Gordon
328 concurred in the views of the hon. member for Staffordshire, and he was sorry to be obliged to inform the House on the authority of his private letters, that the baneful Truck-system was extending to Ireland. A magistrate of the county of Cork, who lived in Bandon, and attended the petty sessions there, had informed him, that the operatives made numerous and distressing complaints, on account of this unjust practice. "A manufacturer," he says, "generally keeps a shop of dry goods, the poor workman is paid in full at one counter, but he is obliged to go to the other, (by a private understanding, that if he does not he will not be employed) where he receives a shawl, or a gown-piece, or a coat, or something that is useless to him, and at one-third more than he could buy it for, with his money at another shop; what he receives, he takes to the Pawn-office immediately, and pledges for half the amount he was obliged to give for it, and most probably he never afterwards redeems it—he being ground down in his weekly
328Mr. R. King
 presented a petition from certain owners of stage-coaches, calling on Parliament either to repeal the act by which licenses are required to be taken out by stage-coach proprietors, or to extend its provisions to carriages carrying passengers or goods for hire, and moved by Steam. He wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to introduce any provision with respect to this subject?Lord Stanley
 said, that it was his intention to propose a measure by which stage-coaches, whether drawn by horses or impelled by steam, would be placed on an equality.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l343 observed, that the present case, and that of the preamble of a bill, were not at all similar. The preamble of a bill was postponed for the purpose of passing it after the clauses of the bill had been discussed and agreed to; but no other opportunity might be afforded for passing a resolution in the Committee of Supply, if it were once passed over. Adverting to the vote itself, as compared with that of 1829, he maintained that the arrangements which had been made by Government had been productive of a large saving of the public money, amounting to
l343The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l had heard the vaunts of the right hon. Gentleman, that the public interest had not been overlooked in the plan of the improvements still in progress in St. James's-park with no little surprise; for one might infer, from the right hon. Gentleman's tone, that permission to frequent the parks was conferred by the Crown on the public as a boon. He begged leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman, who paid for the improvements in the parks? Was it not the public? He would further ask, who had a right to have their interests considered in the plan of those improvements, if not that public which paid for them? Within the last five years, he repeated, not less than 125,000lMr. R. Gordon
344 begged leave to remind the Committee, that he had, in his evidence before the committee on public works, of which the hon. member for Dorsetshire was chairman, stated, that an ingress by a flight of steps, or otherwise, into the park from Pall-mall, constituted no part of the plan of the recent alterations in the neighbourhood of the site of Carlton Palace. While he stated this he was free to admit that he also added, that no indisposition existed in the minds of those who acted under the Treasury to consult public convenience by having such an ingress. He was sure that his right hon. friend had not meant to say, that the public had not a right to frequent the parks—and to share
344Mr. Arbuthnot
 did not deny the right of the public in the sense alluded to by the noble Lord, and only contended that a certain decorous deference was due to the Crown in the management of the Crown property.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
348 said, that the measure of repairing and improving the ancient seat of the Kings of England was, when first proposed, popular, not only in Parliament, but throughout the country. He stated that the causes which had led to the estimates being exceeded had been frequently detailed to the House; and he observed, that there was infinitely more difficulty in calculating the expenses required for repairing an old building than in deciding upon those which might be necessary for the erection of a new one. He could declare that many unexpected diffi-
348The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l350llllll349llllll said, I rise with unfeigned reluctance to express my opinions on this subject. For reasons to which I will not now more particularly allude, there is no time at which I would more willingly find it possible, if it were consistent with my public duty, not to say one word upon the question. But I cannot do so, and I shall, therefore, briefly and simply as possible, state the reasons why I, for one, shall vote for the motion of my hon. friend. If I could think that the question now submitted to this Committee was what the right hon. Gentleman has once and again stated it to be, I would vote for him. If it were put to me, "Shall the present buildings at Windsor Castle, with all the improvements which have been undertaken and are in part executed on this ancient and magnificent structure, the residence of our Kings-be completed, or shall they stop short where they now are?"—I say, if the question put to me were merely this, I should not hesitate before I said that these buildings ought to be completed. But I take that not to be the question. I take the question to be, whether we shall vote 100,000l350llllll349llllllMr. Brougham
 thought there would be no limit to such extravagance unless that House fixed a limit by a decisive resolution, Some Members had no constituents. He had, and always voted to the best of their interests, and he felt that he should not do so if he did not vote against this grant. He should be much surprised if the hon. Member did not obtain a majority.Sir J. Sebright
l said, his object was not to refuse the vote, but to refer it to a Committee of Inquiry, and as he had moved that 10,000lMr. R. Gordon
, in reply to what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, begged to say, that whether a passage into the Park from Waterloo-place were or were not a part of the original plan, a passage had been actually made which was subsequently closed up, as every hon. Member might any day satisfy himself. The matter, however, was then at the disposal of the Committee; let it vote in a majority against the grant as it stood, and the Park would be thrown open; if did not, the promises which had been made to the country, on which some persons had actually set about building, would be unfulfilled.Mr. Hobhouse
llllllllll opposed the Vote; he complained that the original estimate submitted to the House had been 300,000llllllllllMr. R. Gordon
351 believed that the case in favour of his hon. friend's Amendment was made much stronger by the hon. Member, one of the commissioners for these works, who had just spoken. Like the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that hon. Commissioner was quite unable to answer for the future demands that might be made on ac-
351Mr. Hobhouse
352 quite agreed with those hon. Members who said, that there were circumstances at the present moment which rendered a discussion on this subject exceedingly painful indeed. He was ready to say, that if it were the general feeling of the House that this Estimate should be referred to a committee, he should no longer resist that feeling, and he did not think that he showed any undue deference to the opposition which had been raised on this occasion, if under such circumstances he consented to have this vote referred to a committee, for the purpose of ascertaining what might be the ultimate expense necessary for the completion of Windsor Castle. He did so, he confessed,
352The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was rather inclined to persevere in his Amendment, as he should have, in case of its being carried, the appointment of the committee up stairs, which would be otherwise with the right hon. Gentleman, who, he must say, was not most happy in forming his committees. However, if it were the feeling of the majority of the Members, he would withdraw his Amendment, and he trusted a proper committee would be appointed to investigate the subject.Mr. Gordon
l said, the right hon. Gentleman was quite correct in assuming that he made no undue deference to the opinion of the House in withdrawing this Estimate, for that opinion had been too decidedly expressed to allow any such vote to be passed; and he (Mr. Brougham) would venture to say, that neither the right hon. Gentleman, nor the whole power of the Government, could any more have succeeded in carrying this vote on the present occasion than they would have succeeded in carrying a vote for 10,000,000lMr. Brougham
 suggested to the hon. Member the propriety of postponing the Motion, from motives of delicacy to which he need not more particularly allude.
The Attorney General concurred in this recommendation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the Motion.Mr. Warburton and Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition from the Clergy, Bankers, Merchants, and Inhabitants of North Shields, against the proposed alteration in the law relative to Forgery. The petitioners were of opinion that the bill, if passed into a law in its present form, would defeat the object which it was meant to effect, and, instead of decreasing, would increase the crime of Forgery.Mr. Liddell
 hoped the hon. Member did not wish for an assimilation of taxation, as that would only aggravate the evils of Ireland.Mr. O'Connell
lll observed, that many hon. Members who had Irish constituents, voted for the last grant, and this at a moment when the Chancellor of the Exchequer had it in contemplation to impose 300,000lllMr. O'Connell
 stated, that though the Bill stood for discussion that evening—it was not likely that he should be able to bring it before the House. As the means of carrying its provisions into effect were of great importance, it had been printed and circulated through the country, and so many suggestions had been received that it must be revised. He thought it would be most advisable to refer it to a committee up stairs; and he hoped the hon. member for Aberdeen would not oppose the motion he should make for that. There was no measure then under the consideration of the House of such importance as the bill for putting an end to the Truck-system.Mr. Littleton
 said, that he would take the sense of the House with respect to the point to which he had referred on the second reading of the Bill.Mr. Portman
 asked, whether it was the intention of Government to prevent Beer sold by persons who might take out Excise licenses under the provisions of the Bill before the House from being drunk on the premises where it was sold?Mr. Portman
 wished then to say, that there was great room for improvement in the arrangements concerning the Records. There was a valuable collection at no great distance from that House that was at any time liable to be destroyed by fire.Mr. Protheroe
 thought, that hon. Members should reserve their suggestions until the Bill was in committee.Mr. George Dawson
 said, that in the absence of some of his colleagues, who could more properly have answered the question of the hon. Member, he had no hesitation in declaring, that it certainly was the intention of Government to act upon the recommendation of the committee, and to permit Beer to be consumed on the premises where it should be sold. Government felt that if it should come to any other decision on the subject, it would be completely nullifying all the benefit to be derived from the project of throwing open the trade.Mr. George Dawson
 said, that he considered the Bill before the House only a half-measure, because it did not repeal the duty on Beer. He wished to know whether it was the intention of Government to introduce a separate Bill to repeal the Beer duty.Mr. Bright
326 said, that the benefits of the proposed measure were so obvious, that the lower classes, ranged under their natural protectors, the clergy of the country, were coming forward to entreat the legislature to support it. In his opinion, it would be impossible for the country to go on for any considerable period with the labourer deprived of his wages, and exposed to be continually fleeced by those who were bound to be his protectors. Who would believe, were it not explicitly stated, that when labourers who were in want of subsistence applied to their masters for wages,
326Mr. Bright
 wished a clause to be introduced in the Bill, rendering it compulsory on the keepers of the new public-houses to shut up soon at night, and open late in the morning.Mr. Benett
 could assure the members of his Majesty's Government, that several clauses in the Bill were viewed with much alarm, and certainly they would inflict serious injury on the brewers and publicans. The Bill in its present state, would be an act of spoliation and confiscation of individual property. He certainly should, when the Bill was in a committee, move a clause to restrain those persons who might take out Excise licenses, from allowing the Beer they sold to be drunk on their premises. It was the intention of the legislature to make the trade in Beer free, but not to create an unlimited number of alehouses.Mr. Monck
 trusted, that the Government would persevere in carrying this measure through, which he conceived would be highly beneficial to the community, not-withstanding the opposition excited against it by interested persons. He admitted that private property might suffer to some extent; but not equal to the benefit which would accrue from destroying an odious monopoly. Mr. Hume
 would not oppose that motion, not because he had abandoned his opposition to the Bill—but because it was his wish that the machinery of the Bill might he made as perfect as possible, before he stated his views on it. He was much surprised by the observations of the hon. member for Bristol, who seemed ready to legislate on any principle, or even on no principle at all. He would, however, wait till next week before he would state his reasons at length for opposing the Bill.Mr. Hume
 suggested the propriety of postponing the vote, on the ground that it was contrary to a recommendation of the Finance Committee—that no residences should be allowed to public functionaries, except they were essential to their duly discharging their public duty. If the expenditure of the public money in public works were properly inquired into, he was sure it would be found that not less than a half or even three-fourths of the sum laid out in official residences might be advantageously saved to the public.Mr. Hume
l recalled the attention of the House to the fact that the original estimate was 300,000lSir M. W. Ridley
 could also inform the Committee, that no promise had been given by the Government, that a passage should be made for the public in the place alluded to by hon. Members. It was, on the contrary, expressly stipulated in the leases of the houses which had been erected on the line of terrace from Carlton-gardens towards St. James's Palace, that no thoroughfare of the kind mentioned, public or private, should be permitted into the Park at the cud of Waterloo-place. And when a private entrance was proposed, it was very properly refused, on the ground that if there should be any ingress at that place it should be one for the public. There were circumstances of a peculiar nature connected with the matter at present, which must operate to prevent any further proceedings in it on the part of the Woods and Forests. He need not do more than allude to those circumstances, as every hon. Member, he was sure, understood what he meant. With respect to the hon. member for Westminster's animadversions on the present arrangements in St. James's-park, all he should say was, that they formed no part of the plan of the architect, and that the blame—for at least some of the defects complained of—lay with the Treasury.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he could see no objection to the items being deferred to a future occasion, on the same principle that the preamble to a bill was disposed of.Sir J. Newport
327 thought, that the House would never get through its business, if the Members all chose to make long speeches, and get up debates on presenting
327Sir John Newport
 had ever been disposed to vote for a liberal expenditure to provide a residence worthy of the sovereign and of the people of England, but until he heard some satisfactory explanation as to the amount of the sum which would be finally required, he could not vote for this Estimate. If he were satisfied that a delay in making the grant would be detrimental to the contemplated improvements, he should hesitate in voting for it; but he did not fear any such result. The House had not the full estimate before them, and when he saw a crippled estimate he suspected something was wrong. He thought that it would be more worthy of the House, and more satisfactory to the public, if the Government would do what it ought, and give a more distinct explanation of the whole case before this vote was proposed. Under such circumstances, he felt it his duty, though it was most exceedingly painful to be obliged to do so, to vote against the grant, and in favour of the Amendment.Sir T. Acland
345 was surprised to hear from the Chancellor of the Exchequer the doctrine that the public had no right to dictate or interfere with the arrangements of
345Lord Milton
 expressed himself satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's explanation.Lord Milton
 thought, an inquiry was necessary, and he would support the Amendment.Lord Sandon
382381380379378 said, that he regretted that the duty of presenting the Petition which he then held in his hand had fallen upon him, in consequence of the indisposition under which his noble friend, the member for Woodstock (Lord Ashley) was labouring. He regretted that the Petition, when presented by him, would lose that weight which it would have derived from being presented by the noble Lord, not merely on account of his official character as one of the Commissioners for the Affairs of India, but also on account of the great diligence and attention which he was in the habit of bestowing upon all subjects connected with that country. He had to observe that the Petition was very numerously signed by the Christian, and he might call them very respectable inhabitants of Calcutta and the provinces comprised within the Presidency of Fort William, descended on one side from the European subjects of the Crown of Great Britain, and on the other from natives of India, who might therefore be denominated Indo-Britons, though they were more generally known by the title of half-castes. The grievances of which the Petitioners complained were numerous, but might, he believed, be comprised under two heads. Whilst they lived in Calcutta, within the limited jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, they were ruled in their civil relations by the laws of England; but the moment they passed beyond that jurisdiction, they complained that they were placed beyond the pale of all civil law, whether British, Hindoo, or Mahomedan. They likewise complained that they were excluded from all superior offices in the civil and military services of the East-India
382381380379378Mr. Wynn
383 thought that as the whole subject of the government of India was at present undergoing the consideration of a committee above stairs, the present was an unfit opportunity to enter into a discussion of the situation of that class of persons from whom the Petition purported to come; yet, after what had passed, he should not feel himself justified, if he suffered the Petition to be brought up, without presenting a few observations to the notice of the House. The principal object he contemplated, in rising to address the House, was to assure the right hon. Gentleman, the House, and the petitioners, that the half-castes were not looked upon with any of that contemptuous feeling which they attributed to the government of India. He assured the House that there existed every disposition on the part of the Government to pay proper attention to the wishes and interests of the class of persons to which the petitioners belonged. Government was always ready to relieve them from any grievances under which they might suppose themselves to be labouring, provided it could be done consistently with the good government and safety of our Indian possessions. Amongst the grievances alluded to in the Petition, there were some such as the laws relating to marriage and succession, which might be remedied—there were others which required much caution and deliberation, because they involved important considerations respecting the government and even the safety of our possessions in India. He considered also, that it would be inconvenient to enter into any discus-
383Mr. Stuart Wortley
385384 said, he had had an opportunity of observing the conduct and character of that class of persons whose petition was then under discussion, and he had inquired and reflected much respecting them. He had heard much too, of the natural inferiority of particular races—that there was one race born to command, and another to obey; but this he regarded as the common-place argument of the advocates of oppression; and he knew there was no foundation for it in any part of India. This, he declared, he spoke upon due consideration, because he had observed boys of all races in places of public education. He had observed the clerks in counting-houses, and even in the Government offices, for some were admitted to the subordinate situations, and thus allowed to sit in contact as it were with all the objects of their ambition, though they were only tantalized by the vicinity of that which they could never attain. He was convinced that there was no race, not actually in a state of slavery which
385384Sir J. Macintosh
386 said, that shortly after he had obtained the honour of a seat in that House, he had called its attention to the hardships suffered by the class of half-castes in India. He was happy to be able to say, that a liberal system was gradually making its way in India, and he was convinced that, in point of policy, the British Government must draw more largely than it had done on the intelligence of the native inhabitants of India. There were some statements in this petition that were questionable; but at the same time it was quite true that those per-
386Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
 more supported the Petition, and expressed his satisfaction that it had been brought forward, as it would show the Indian population that the House of Commons felt interested in their condition.Mr. W. W. Whit
 concurred with all that had been said as to the justice and propriety of removing the disabilities of the half-caste of Indo-Britons. He had been seventeen years in this country, after having been twenty-two years in India; the more he saw of the old country the better he liked the natives.Sir C. Forbes
l. said, in reply to the observations of the hon. Secretary to the Board of Control, begged leave to stale that the highest office held by any of the class whose petition he had presented, did not yield more than 700l.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 Wortley was not aware that these exclusions were contained in the instructions sent out by the directors, or in the appointments which emanated from them.Mr. Stewart
 also bore testimony to the merits of this class of native population in India, and he hoped the Government would remove the disabilities under which they now laboured. He was glad even of this hasty discussion, and he did not think the opportunity an improper one, for the more the question was discussed the better would the House be able to legislate on the subject of India, when it was formally brought before it. He agreed in the representations made in the Petition. The petitioners by being excluded from European society, were treated with contempt by the natives, and were thus subject to more causes of irritation than were perceptible in the regulations.Mr. John Stewart
388l.l. presented a Petition, not from brewers or publicans, but from the Vicar, Curate, Churchwardens and Overseers of the Parish of Isleworth, against the Bill now brought in to allow the sale of Beer in houses without regard to the character of the occupier, the wants of the public, or the wishes of the neighbourhood, and without consideration for the ruin of those who had already invested their capital in public-houses. The petitioners stated, that they viewed the progress of this Bill with alarm, and were convinced, that if it became a law, it would be productive of much mischief. For his own part he believed that the House would soon regret the ruin it would be sure to occasion, and the country gentlemen who were now so anxious to support the measure, would, ere long, rue the day in which they gave it their assent. The same hon. Member, presented another petition from three hundred persons, Inhabitants of the Parish of Paddington, against the said Bill; and a third Petition from one Stanley Gainer, of Seacombe, in the county of Chester, who complained, that having laid out the sum of 3,000388l.l.Mr. C. Culvert
 presented a Petition, signed by 5,000 persons, occupiers and owners of public-houses in London, and its vicinity, against the Bill, and observed, that if it were passed into a law, it would decrease the ease and comfort of all gentlemen who lived in the country, and would be the ruin of many respectable men who had advanced their capital on speculations in public-houses.Mr. Byng
389 begged leave to support the prayer of the Petition, many of the petitioners being among his constituents. He regretted very much that it was the determination of the Government to persevere in promoting this Bill; and he hoped, even in that case, that the part which allowed Beer to be drunk on the premises where it was sold would be struck out. He was of opinion that that part of the Bill would have a most pernicious effect on the morals of the lower classes. He had no objection, neither had the petitioners, to Beer being sold by a greater number of persons than at present, but they objected to those persons, without a license or any guarantee for their character, being allowed to supply parties with accommodation for drinking it on their premises. He was of opinion, that a great deal of mischief would result from the change, and he therefore wished that it should be made gradually—for example, it would be better to wait and sec what would be the effect of abolishing the duty on Beer, before allowing every body who chose, to set up a public-house. For his part he could not give his assent to so great and sudden an alteration as was contemplated by that Bill. He was glad that the member for Reading meant to move an amendment to it, for if everybody were allowed to sell Beer, every gentleman might be subject to the annoyance of having a public-house at his door, where the most abominable characters might plan the commission of every species of crime. He believed that all the vigilance of the new police would be insufficient to counteract such temptations to disorder. Moreover, the Bill set aside a number of Acts of Parliament, which, whether for good or evil, had secured to certain parties a monopoly, and induced them to buy and sell under that restriction, which gave a fictitious value to property. Were the owners of property that might be depre-
389Mr. Alderman Thompson
At thought, the call for compensation was made too soon, nor could he sec the analogy between opening the trade in Beer, and regulating the County Courts. The existing system was very bad; the alteration of the law was intended for the public benefit, and he therefore was favourably disposed towards it. AtMr. Alderman Waithman
 remonstrated with the hon. and learned; Gentleman on the form of his Motion. The hon. and learned Gentleman must surely be aware of the very great mischief which a return to such a motion would be calculated to produce. If the hon. and learned Gentleman persisted in his Motion he must oppose it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
394 was surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman had expatiated so largely on the subject, as there was no opportunity at the present moment to go into the facts of the case. His (Mr. O'Connell's) only object in the Motion which he had just made was, to elicit facts, and to ascertain how many lives of his Majesty's subjects in Ireland had been sacrificed by the employment of an armed police. When he spoke of the lives which had been lost in resistance to the police, he spoke of evil resistance; and he did not mean to say that lives were lost on all occasions. If, however, a single life were lost in resistance to the police, he had no sympathy with those who did not contemplate with compassion the tears of the orphans and the widow thereby created. Whatever men high in office might think of such occurrences, by him they would always be deeply lamented. He did not know to what the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded when he spoke of his (Mr. O'Connell's) assertions respecting him. What he had asserted was derived from persons who had put their assertions into the shape of petitions, and said they were ready to prove them. He had been prevented from bringing the subject forward, because it appeared that, as far as the hon. and learned Gentleman was concerned, he had been guilty only of mismanagement, and if so that mismanagement had been favourable to the prisoners;—If the hon. and learned Gentleman had erred, he had erred only in favour of the prisoners. After he had sent the petitions to the noble Lord, a book was published, which gave a different account of the affair from that which he had originally received, and that induced him to pause until he could ascertain which was the right view of the case. The hon. and learned Gentleman courted investigation. He (Mr. O'Conncll) had not, however, made any declaration in
394Mr. O' Connell
395 in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to place the Charitable Bequests and Donations of Roman Catholics in Great Britain on the same footing with those of Protestant Dissenters, observed, that the necessity of the measure was obvious, and the propriety of remedying the evil which existed equally obvious. In Ireland, the Bequests or Donations of Roman Catholics, for charitable or benevolent purposes were fully protected, and with the exception of some expense for the renewal of the names of Trustees, when the former ones died or retired, they enjoyed the same privileges as the Protestants or Dissenters. In England the case was very different. Here the Legislature, in the repeal of various penal laws which affected the Catholics, as well as in the great Relief Bill itself, had proceeded on the principle, not of repealing the Acts, but of repealing the oaths imposed by these Acts, and substituting other oaths to be taken in their place. The consequence was, that in various Statutes, and particularly in those which related to Charities, and what were in former times called superstitious uses, the penalties remained, and the grievances under which the Catholics laboured did not come under the provisions of the Relief Bill. The result was, that although
395Mr. O' Connell,
 understood the Relief Bill to be intended to place the Catholics on the same footing as other Dissenters, but. not as Protestant Dissenters. If the hon. and learned Gentleman wished by this Bill to go further, and confer on them new rights, then the question was one of great importance, and required due consideration.The Solicitor General
 also guarded himself against any assent to the principle of the Bill by suffering it to be brought in, and declared his ignorance of the precise meaning which the learned Gentleman attached to the words superstitious uses.The Attorney General
l400 expressed his satisfaction at hearing that it was not the intention of the hon. and learned Member to disturb in any manner the Catholic
l400The Solicitor General
 rose to second the Amendment. He gave the right hon. Gentleman credit for good intentions, but thought his Bill would be highly injurious. It would not be any bonus to the common people, who were now in a most deplorable state, and who were nevertheless, he regretted to add, in the habit of expending more money upon Beer than upon food. He did not think the brewers would produce a better liquor under the new regulations. He deprecated the destruction of property which would ensue, and the deterioration of the morality of the people which would be caused. Under these impressions he would support the Amendment.Mr. Dickenson
411410 said, he thought Government had exercised a sound discretion
411410Mr. Heathcote
414s., s. 413s. had always thought that the hon. member for Newark was the advocate of the poor. He therefore had been not a little surprised when he heard him advocate the repeal of the Malt-tax, in preference to that on Beer. Taxation ought to apply equally to the rich and the poor; or, if there were any distinction, it ought to be in favour of the poor. But how did the case stand with respect to the Malt and Beer taxes? If any body brewed his own Beer, it was some man who was comparatively opulent; the poorer classes, particularly in towns, were one and all obliged to buy Beer. Those who brewed their own Beer paid only the Malt-tax; those who bought their Beer paid also the tax on Boer. Barley was 35414s., s. 413s.Mr. Fowell Buxlon
415 would vote in favour of the Bill, the general principle of which he approved of, though he thought that something ought to be done in behalf of the publicans. He admitted that they had no claim upon the consideration of the House on the score of vested interests, but they had strong claims, on other grounds, to its consideration. They had embarked an immense capital in this trade, under a system which had continued for years, and which, at the time they embarked their capital, they had no reason to suppose would be disturbed. Ministers now turned round on them and said, that that system was founded entirely upon principles of bad legislation. He would, therefore, throw out a suggestion to the right hon. Gentleman, that the permitting
415Mr. Maberly
 agreed with the hon. member for Weymouth in all that had fallen from him, and he should support the measure of the right hon. Gentleman. But when the House was in a committee, he hoped that something would be done for those persons whose property they were about to destroy, to an extent of which the House was not probably aware. As to any claims for vested interests, he, in behalf of the London brewers, disdained all such idea. Neither had the London victuallers claimed one farthing of compensation. The hon. member for London had not said a word to that effect which he had heard, and he had listened attentively to what had fallen from that hon. Gentleman. It however rested with that hon. Gentleman to explain what he had said.Mr. C. Culvert
418 explained, that alderman Brown was not the agent of the publicans, and they were no more answerable for what he said than a client was for the
418Mr. C. Culvert
 supported the Bill, and did not think it would be found liable to the objections made by the hon. Member. He should vote for the Bill, because he thought the peculiar circumstances of the times and the bad quality of the liquor now sold by publicans required some alteration. He did not, however, impute the bad quality of the liquor to the great brewers. The provisions of this Bill were, in his mind, more likely to prevent the improper conduct of persons keeping ale-houses than were any of the enactments of the old law. He did not mean to find fault with the magistrates—it was their duty to be strict in granting licenses, but it was also well known, that the decisions of different magistrates in different parts of a county did not always harmonise with each other. He believed that the old system had occasioned much of the adulteration of beer and the habit of gin-drinking, and he therefore objected to it. The present Bill went upon the principle of substituting good beer for an abominable adulteration and for gin, and he thought it was well calculated to effect that object. He could not conceive why the noble Lord opposite should imagine that the Bill would only be of advantage to artisans in towns, and not to labourers in the country. It was said that the vested interests of brewers and publicans would suffer from this Bill, but just in the same proportion was it clear that the public would be benefitted by it. He should, therefore, cordially give it his vote.Lord Granville Somerset
422421420 said, that with respect to this question he stood in a peculiar situation. In the year 1822 he introduced a bill on the subject, which went the length of a second reading. In the year 1823 he introduced a similar bill, which reached the same stage. Into that bill he introduced a restrictive clause, more in deference to the opinion of others than from any conviction of his own mind; but the bill was thrown out. As to the present measure, there were those who thought that the restrictive clause would have been an improvement to it. He expressly added that clause, because he found that, in the then state of men's minds, there was no chance whatever of its otherwise obtaining the concurrence of anything like a majority of that House. He expressed his confident belief, that not only would the present measure afford great relief to the landed interest, by the increased consumption of malt, but that it would be a substantial improvement to the condition of the humbler classes, by producing an improvement in the quality of the article supplied; that improvement in the liquor, he considered, would be a great and valuable relief to that class; and he marveled much that his hon. friend, the member for Dorset did not see the matter in that light. To open the trade must be attended with the inevitable consequence of improving the quality of beer, for whereas brewers and publicans were, up to the present time, without competition, when that alteration was made which the Bill proposed to effect, brewers on a small scale and of moderate capital could get into the trade and promote competition. But it was more important to recollect that there would also be less adulteration of the liquor, for he believed that all the adulteration of the liquor took place at the publican's. The brewer was subjected to the visits—he might more properly say the visitations—of the excise officer, and he was also open to the influence of the informer. The publican was
422421420Mr. Brougham
 approved of the general principle of the Bill, but disapproved of the clause allowing Beer to be drank on the premises where it was sold.Mr. Bransby Cooper
 said, it was not his duty to oppose, but to promote the hon. and learned Gentleman's Motion. He wished, however, to reserve his opinions on the subject, till a subsequent stage of the Bill, and he should certainly offer no opposition to it in that stage.Lord Leveson Gower
416 said, that the hon. Baronet had contended that the taking off this duty would afford little relief to the poor in comparison with the removal of the Malt-tax. He was not of that opinion; and to bring the thing within the comprehension of every body, he would just state that the removal of the Malt-tax would save the public only a halfpenny per pot in the price of beer, while the removal of the Beer-tax would lower the price one penny. The result of taking off the Malt-tax would be that private brewers would pay no duty whatever, but hat would be of little benefit to the public at large; for it appeared that during the last year, the quantity of malt consumed was twenty-nine millions of quarters, of
416Mr. C. Barclay
419 said, that the great point which he thought the House ought to consider in this case was, whether the proposed measure would be a relief to the poorer classes. Now one noble Lord had said it would be but a partial relief to them. In his mind the relief to them by this Bill would be but as a flea-bite. He
419Colonel Sibthorp
 did not intend to oppose the learned Gentleman's Motion; but he could have wished to know what description of charitable bequests he desired to have protected—whether they were for the purpose of building chapels, or increasing monastic institutions? The hon. Member had not, in fact, told them whether he did not propose to support donations for superstitious uses, nor had he explained what those superstitious uses meant. He was willing to allow the Bill to be brought in, but he reserved any opinion on its merits until he had a fuller explanation of the details.Sir C. Wetherell
 said, that he was indifferent as to the form; all that he wanted was to get at the facts. He did not mean to impute any blame to the police; he only wanted to know how many lives had been sacrificed by them. However, he would withdraw his Motion for the present, for the purpose of bringing it forward in another shape.Mr. O'Connell
 in reply, said, he merely wished to protect the donations of the benevolent for charitable purposes, and he could assure the House it had no reference to monastic institutions, for the Relief Bill forbade it. His intention was, to have the Bill printed, and if it were then opposed, he should not press it for the present Session, but take the sense of the House on it in the ensuing Session.Mr. O'Connell
malus animus399l398397 rose, he said, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to render valid, in certain cases, the marriages of Roman Catholics in England by a Catholic Clergyman, and to abolish in Ireland certain penalties imposed on Catholic Priests for celebrating marriages between Catholics and Protestants. He wished, if possible, to earn the approbation of Gentlemen on the other side, or at least to avoid their censure, by being very brief upon this subject at present, trespassing on the attention of the House only to an extent sufficient to make his intentions understood. The object of the proposed measure was, to render valid, in certain cases, the marriage of Roman Catholics in England, and to abolish the penalties imposed on Catholic Priests in Ireland for solemnizing marriages between Protestants and Catholics. There were two different points for consideration, on which the House might be disposed to come to different decisions. The House might be ready enough to amend the law of Ireland, without wishing to interfere with that of England. He did not refer to a law making the marriages of Roman Catholics valid in themselves; in that respect but little alteration was desirable, for marriages celebrated by a Roman Catholic priest, between Roman Catholic parties, were perfectly valid at present. Such marriage entitled a female to dower, and conveyed the ordinary interest in property to the children. That law extended in Ireland also to marriages celebrated between Protestant Dissenters by clergymen of their own communion. There were three distinct laws relating to marriages in Ireland:—first, for marriages celebrated by clergymen of the Established Church; secondly, for marriages by Protestant Dissenting ministers; and thirdly, for marriages celebrated by Roman Catholic priests, which are valid only when both parties are Roman Catholics. That being the slate of the law, his object was to mitigate the penalties for any violation of that law by a Roman Catholic priest. There was no penalty on clergymen of the Established Church for marrying persons of different religious persuasions, none on Dissenters—upon the Roman Catholics alone was any penalty inflicted. He would briefly notice some of the statutes which authorised these penalties. The first Act to which he would allude, was passed for the purpose of preventing the taking away and marrying
malus animus399l398397Mr. O'Connell
377 thought that, so far from an opposition to the bill being a compliment to the Catholics, the only compliment the gallant Officer could make to them would be to vote for this bill, and for every
377Mr. O'Connell
391 rose to move for a return of the number of persons who had been killed by the Police in Ireland since the passing of the Act for the establishment of the Constabulary Force in that country. The effect of that establishment had been, that whenever the people resisted the police, they were put to death by them. In England, resistance to the police was a misdemeanor; but in Ireland it was punished with death. As he was desirous to know how many persons had so fallen, he moved that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to order that there be laid before the House an account of the number of persons in Ireland that had been put to death by the police in that country since the passing of the Act
391Mr. O'Connell
408407 rose to move that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months. He felt that it was necessary to make an apology to the House and to his hon. friend, from whom he was at any time sorry to differ, particularly as he had obtained much of his political knowledge from his hon. friend, for the course he was taking. He begged however, distinctly to disclaim having any feelings on this subject in common with the brewers and publicans; his opposition to the Bill being founded on general principles. His object was to stop the further progress of a Bill which he considered would prove most injurious to the people, in the hope that the right hon. Gentleman might be then induced to repeal a portion of the Malt-tax, which would confer far greater benefit on the country, or else that he would directly relieve the people by taking off the Excise-duties from soap and candles. The Bill the right hon. Gentleman proposed was not, in his opinion, what it professed to be. It was a Bill to establish a certain species of retail Beer trade, but it did not entirely relieve the publicans from magisterial control. Now he considered, that if magistrates were to have any authority at all, they should have sufficient authority to preserve order, as they were bound to do by the tenour of their oaths. The right hon. Gentleman, should either relieve them completely from the responsibility, or else invest them with befitting powers. He now opposed the Bill, because he thought it fairer to do so at that, the second reading, than to endeavour to stultify it by the introduction of some clause in the committee. He on tended there was no control in the provisions of this Bill against the use of dele-
408407Mr. Portman
 begged to call the attention of the House to both these Petitions, as well deserving of it. As the argument against the Emancipation of the Jews seemed to have taken a religious tone, he must be allowed to observe, that the character of the inhabitants of Bristol was a; religious as that of any other body of individuals in the kingdom, and yet that there was a strong feeling among the intelligent classes in that city in favour of the emancipation. If they had the least apprehension that it would expose the Established Church, or the Constitution to any danger, they would be the last people of the Empire to petition in favour of it Whenever the subject came regularly be fore the House he should certainly vote for full and entire emancipation.Mr. Protheroe
 in presenting two Petitions—the one from British-born Jews resident in Bristol, the other from a great number of Christian inhabitants of Bristol, of every denomination, praying that the Jews might be placed on an equality in respect of civil rights and privileges with their fellow-subjects—took occasion to observe, that the general feeling at Bristol was greatly in favour of the Emancipation of the Jews. The petitioners affirmed, that they knew the Jews to be distinguished for their loyalty and good conduct, and they thought this persecuted people were entitled to be placed on an equality, in respect to civil rights and privileges, with their Christian fellow-countrymen. Whenever the question should conic before the House he would be most happy to assist in removing the greater part, although, perhaps, not all of the disabilities under which the Jews at present laboured.Mr. Bright
 observed, that although he most readily bore testimony to the number and respectability of the individuals who had signed the Petition, and agreed fully with his right hon. colleague that for many years no petition had been more numerously and more respectably signed; nevertheless, feeling as he did, that the principles which induced him to oppose the introduction of the Roman Catholics into an entire participation of the civil privileges of their fellow-subjects equally operated on his mind with reference to the Jews; he felt himself bound to say so. His right hon. friend acted consistently with the principles which induced him to vote for Catholic emancipation, in supporting the emancipation of the Jews; a proposition which it had been last Session foretold would be made before a year had elapsed. On the broad principle of an established religion being necessary, he should oppose the bill in every stage. After having voted against the Catholics it would be paying them a very bad compliment now to vote in favour of the Jews.General Gascoyne
 was in favour of the bill, conceiving that the monopoly of public-houses by common brewers was a great evil, which would be remedied by the present measure. He saw no other vested rights endangered by it but those of the brewers, which ought not to be protected. Every poor man who had no other home than the public-house, should be allowed to enjoy himself freely there, and should not be taxed to support opulent brewers and publicans. He wished he could prevail on the right hon. Gentleman opposite to abolish the Malt-tax as well as the Beer-tax; the article would then be made much cheaper and the poor be proportion-ably benefited.Mr. Benett
409 said, he entirely differed from the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last, and consequently felt it his imperious duty to support the Bill. The three parties who, it was argued, would be injured by it were the common brewers, the publicans, and the public at large, whose morality was to be compromised. As to the first, he had simply to observe, that there was a tax of three millions and a half taken from Beer, and that therefore this must increase the consumption of the article. This would be materially the case with respect to brewers' Beer, because it was the common brewers who paid the tax, and not the individuals who brewed their own Beer, who, even with this advantage, were not able to compete with the others in the quality of the article. Accordingly the common brewers would now derive a benefit from the taking off
409Mr. Benett
"I am largely interested, as a banker, in the West Riding of this county, in the towns of Wakefield, Done aster, and Pontefract. After a long experience I can declare, that I shall rejoice to see the new law with milder penalties, conceiving myself now placed out of the protection of law, as I feel it impossible to prosecute offences where such a penalty is assigned.""Wakefield, Yorkshire, April"Wakefield, Yorkshire, April"If the Home Secretary were made acquainted with the sentiments of the banking interest generally on this subject, he possibly might be induced to propose a less sanguinary punishment for offences of this description."Banbury Bank, April"Banbury Bank, April"The inefficacy of the existing law is most glaring, and bankers, who, perhaps, see more infractions of this law than all others put together, have long and keenly felt upon this subject. Between fifty and sixty years have elapsed since our first establishment, and dining the whole of this period, although numberless forgeries have passed under our observation, yet in no instance, excepting one, have we dared to prosecute, because we should have hazarded the life of a fellow creature; and in that one instance two individuals in all probability would have forfeited their lives, but for our withholding the fatal evidence."st,Sunderland Bank, April"st,Sunderland Bank, April on presenting Petitions from Darlington, Kirk by Kendall, and Kings-bridge, against the severity of the law against Forgery, even as it was proposed to be amended, said that he did not mean to make any observations on the subject, but he begged leave to read the following extracts of letters from highly respectable bankers:—
"I am largely interested, as a banker, in the West Riding of this county, in the towns of Wakefield, Done aster, and Pontefract. After a long experience I can declare, that I shall rejoice to see the new law with milder penalties, conceiving myself now placed out of the protection of law, as I feel it impossible to prosecute offences where such a penalty is assigned.""Wakefield, Yorkshire, April"Wakefield, Yorkshire, April"If the Home Secretary were made acquainted with the sentiments of the banking interest generally on this subject, he possibly might be induced to propose a less sanguinary punishment for offences of this description."Banbury Bank, April"Banbury Bank, April"The inefficacy of the existing law is most glaring, and bankers, who, perhaps, see more infractions of this law than all others put together, have long and keenly felt upon this subject. Between fifty and sixty years have elapsed since our first establishment, and dining the whole of this period, although numberless forgeries have passed under our observation, yet in no instance, excepting one, have we dared to prosecute, because we should have hazarded the life of a fellow creature; and in that one instance two individuals in all probability would have forfeited their lives, but for our withholding the fatal evidence."st,Sunderland Bank, April"st,Sunderland Bank, April390Mr.
390
406405404403402 said, in rising to move the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Beer Bill, that he
406405404403402Mr. Calcraft
 was in hopes, that ere long something would be done to make the marriage law similar throughout the three kingdoms. It was, in his opinion, a most monstrous anomaly, that the marriage law, which was the very foundation of society, on which depended the rights and fortunes of all classes of citizens living under the same general scheme of policy, subject to the same system of Government,—it was a monstrous anomaly that this law, the foundation of the whole society, should not be the same for every part of the kingdom, and every description of persons. At present, however, this law was so extravagant, and so extraordinary, that there was now a case of marriage pending, as the learned Gentleman opposite knew, which, after the highest court of Scotland had declared the couple to be legally married, and their children legitimate, was about, he believed, to be set aside by a still higher authority here; and the children were to be declared illegitimate. He did not mean to enter into the question as to Ireland, but he did hope that his Majesty's Ministers, or some Gentleman of talents and weight in the House, would bring the state of the marriage-law under discussion, and would enable the people to know, at all times and places, whether they were legally married or not, and whether their offspring were legitimate or illegitimate.Mr. Croker
393392 said, that his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had adverted to the extraordinary form of the hon. and learned gentleman's Motion; he (Mr. Doherty) begged to say a few words with respect to the comments by which that Motion had been accompanied. The hon. and learned member for Clare, if he (Mr. Doherty) had not misunderstood him, had stated broadly that in Ireland it was the practice, whenever resistance was made to the police by the people, for the police to put the people to death. Now really he was at a loss to conjecture how it could happen that a person of the hon. and learned Gentleman's knowledge and experience, accustomed as he was to measure his expressions, could make such an assertion as that, and subsequently declare that he meant no offence by it! If the fact were really as the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated it; if the police in Ireland were constantly in the habit of putting to death all persons who made any resistance to them, it was the hon. and learned Gentleman's bounden duty to submit the subject immediately to the solemn consideration of Parliament. He was the more surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman had indulged in such observations in making a motion, of which he had not given any notice, when he might have had such abundant opportunities of substantiating his charges, if they were capable of being substantiated, by producing the petitions against him
393392Mr. Doherty
l401 supported the Motion. The Bill was to amend the civil law respecting marriage, and nobody who knew what that law was, whatever political opinions he might profess, would oppose that Bill. The hon. and learned Member, as he understood, did not intend to alter the law. But at present, the punishment to which a Catholic clergyman was supposed to be liable for celebrating illegal marriages was nothing less than death. In the opinion of many celebrated men, and in the opinion of an humble individual, himself, though his was a very conscientious opinion, the Relief Bill passed by the Irish Parliament in 1793 repealed the law inflicting this punishment. The punishment was no longer death—it was not
l401Mr. North
"An hour's importance on the poor man's heart,"412 agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Dorset shire, in thinking the Government would have acted wisely in preferring the repeal of the Malt-tax to the repeal of that tax now proposed. Considering, however, the present measure us one of relief, he objected to it as partial. In many of the rural and agricultural districts of England, which were the most distressed, the people wore in the habit of brewing their own Beer. To them, consequently, the Bill brought no relief. The consumption of Beer on the ale-bench might be augmented, whereas the consumption at home would not be increased. He regretted that the Bill held out no inducements to private brewing, but on the contrary, by diminishing its comparative advantages, tended to encourage the trade of the brewer. Hitherto the arrangements connected with the supply of Beer to the public had been connected with the magistracy, and he would take upon himself to say, that they had always exercised the power which the law had put in their hands with credit to themselves, and with benefit to the community. No one could attempt successfully to carry on the business of a publican, without having obtained for himself a good character; and the great security for maintaining that previous good character was, that it was his interest to do so. It likewise appeared to him, that the supervision of the Excise was another security for the good quality of the Beer supplied to the public; though he would not enter further into that branch of the subject. The proposed system appeared to him to be nothing more nor less than offering a bonus to tipplers, with no likelihood of affording advantage to the body of the people. But besides the injury to arise to the community, the greatest damage would, by this measure, be inflicted on the vested interests of those most concerned in the measure. That publicans and brewers had gone on embarking their property in the trade was the fault of the Legislature, for it was the Legislature that, by its previous conduct, had persuaded the publicans that there
"An hour's importance on the poor man's heart,"412Mr. Sadler
 said, he should have preferred the reduction of the Malt-duty, and thought the present measure went tooMr. R. Palmer
 said, that the cider-houses in the West of England were great evils; but that the regularly licensed alehouses were well conducted; and he feared that the beer-houses to be created by this Bill would be like the cider-houses of the West. He objected particularly to a clause which went to mix up the jurisdiction of the county and borough magistrates.Mr. Houldsworth
 thought, that the hon. member for Weymouth was wrong in his argument. If the Malt-tax were taken off, every man would be able to brew his own Beer, and would be encouraged to do so, while the removal of the Beer-tax appeared to be a benefit in favour of the rich, to the disadvantage of the poor. A parallel case to the present was that of the Leather-tax, in which it had been contended, that on its removal every shoemaker would become a tanner; but to prepare the under-leather for shoes required three years, and consequently a large capital. The same was the case with regard to Beer; the large brewers would still have the advantage of capital, and would monopolize the whole trade of the country. He did not intend to deny that the intention of Government, in the removal of the Beer-tax, was good: but it certainly appeared to him that they were proceeding upon fallacious grounds. They should consult practical men before they brought forward measures for the relief of the country, for otherwise they run a risk of bringing forward measures like the present, which would not be followed by the effects which they anticipated. They might as well try to learn in the depths of the sea, as in the streets of Lon-don, what would be beneficial to the country at large.Sir C. Burrell
 thought that those who had voted against the Catholics might consistently support the bill for emancipating the Jews.Mr. Huskisson
376 said, he also had a Petition to present on the same subject, to which he begged shortly to call the atten-
376Mr. Huskisson
 would give the bill all the opposition in his power whenever it came before the House.Sir John Brydges
 said, he would not oppose the introduction of the Bill, but conceiving that after what was called the obsolete Statutes were repealed, there would be some motion to enact different laws, he should certainly oppose the Bill at its subsequent stages.Sir J. Brydges
417 said, that this Bill ought to be considered, not as a separate measure, hut as a part of that system of finance which the government had introduced in the present year. Looking at it under that aspect he was not disposed to object to it, but there were other considerations which would induce him to vote against it. He did not like the ambiguous support given to the Bill by the hon. members for Weymouth and Southwark, especially when he recollected that the former had confidently stated that the skill and capital of the brewers would save them from the effects of competition. The hon. member for Southwark would find that he had been mistaken in supposing the publicans did not claim compensation, for if he looked into the evidence of Mr.
417Lord Milton
448447 said, he rose to present a Petition from the
448447Colonel Wilson
ll said, he had a Petition to present this evening, similar to the one just presented, but he would take this opportunity to express his sentiments on the subject. The proposed measure was in every respect most objectionable, and he would tell the English Members in that House, that if they supposed the measure in question would be productive of benefit to the Revenue, they were quite mistaken. So far from an increase, a diminution of revenue would follow the imposition of additional duties upon the Newspaper press of Ireland. Under the existing scale of duties, the revenue arising from the duty upon advertisements in Ireland had diminished latterly from 26,000llMr. S. Rice
 said, he was quite confident, whether that were the object in view or not, that the additional duty would ruin the press of Ireland. If, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman should persevere in his plan, which he hoped he would not, he should oppose him to the utmost of his power, which he hoped would be done by every well-wisher to his country.Mr. George Lamb
 said, he had a Petition to present, which he thought was entitled to the attention of the House. It was from the inhabitants of the parish of St. Paul, Covent Garden. The petitioners complained of the present very inadequate communication between the northern and southern parts of the Metropolis, which was confined to Chancery-lane, a narrow and crooked street quite unfit for a great thoroughfare; and they suggested that the opportunity which the destruction of the English Opera-house presented, should be taken to open a street opposite Waterloo-bridge, for the purpose of affording the necessary public accommodation. He trusted that the noble Lord opposite (Lord Lowther) would attend to the suggestions of the petitioners.Lord Belgrave
451 said, that the improvement recommended by the petitioners would be productive of great public advantage, and he trusted it would be carried into effect. He understood that applications had been made to the noble Lord opposite and to Government on the subject, and that no difficulties had been raised by them to the proposition, provided Parliament would give its sanction. There was a very natural objection in the first instance to appropriating the public money to measures of the kind, as such heavy expenses had been already incurred for other improvements; but he was sure, that
451Mr. Hobhouse
ll was not disposed to deny that great public ad vantage and convenience would arise from making the proposed street, and the only difficulty seemed to be as to the party who should bear the expense of the projected improvement. The funds placed at the disposal of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests were forestalled for several years, so that they could not contribute to the work. He believed that the days of prejudice had gone by, and that there was one general opinion in favour of improvements, such as were now in progress at Charing-cross. But it was to be recollected, that the improvements which had been made in Regent-street, and which were in progress at Charing-cross, were upon Crown property, and that the proposed line of street in this instance would not be upon property belonging to the Crown. The Crown property in Regent-street actually returned at present 2½ per cent. and he was sure the improvements at Charing-cross would be equally profitable to the Crown. The property here, however, did not belong to the Crown; it was not, therefore, for the department over which he presided, more than any other, to interfere with regard to the proposed improvement. There was a small portion of Crown property just contiguous to it, and he believed that some of the houses in the line of the improvement could be exchanged for it, at a cost of about 2,000llLord Lowtther
ll observed, that as the noble Lord opposite had said the funds belonging to the Woods and Forests were forestalled for some time to conic, he hoped that part of them were set aside for the repayment of the 250,000llSir James Graham
 said, that he did not expect to have been questioned, upon presenting a petition relating to Waterloo-bridge, about arrangements which had sprung out of the Treaty of Paris. He would at present simply state, that he hoped in a short time to be able to submit a measure to Parliament, for the purpose of carrying into effect some such measure as his hon. friend contemplated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 felt as strongly the necessity of repaying this sum as the hon. Baronet; and, as a proof of it, stated, that within the last few weeks they had paid on account of it a small sum into the Treasury: when circumstances permitted the whole would be paid.Lord Lowther
462dl461460ll459The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,565
Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,56519,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830
19,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.
Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,565
Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,56519,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830
19,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.
Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
Excess.Real Value.Official Value.217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.96,407644110,6811,0051829
96,407644110,6811,005182978,336584128,7521,1351828
78,336584128,7521,135182843,142279163,9461,4401827
43,142279163,9461,4401827207,0881,7191826
207,0881,7191826Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.96,407644110,6811,0051829
96,407644110,6811,005182978,336584128,7521,1351828
78,336584128,7521,135182843,142279163,9461,4401827
43,142279163,9461,4401827207,0881,7191826
207,0881,7191826Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.4581,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 1827
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 18273,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease
3,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease1,7758,6763094,7901829
1,7758,6763094,79018291,9208,8216734,4261828
1,9208,8216734,42618286,9015,0991827
6,9015,0991827Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 1827
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 18273,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease
3,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease1,7758,6763094,7901829
1,7758,6763094,79018291,9208,8216734,4261828
1,9208,8216734,42618286,9015,0991827
6,9015,0991827Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.457456455454, he said, to present a Petition which was very important and well deserving of the attention of the House, it being a Petition from the Ship-owners of London, very numerously signed, and by men for whose respectability he could vouch. The petitioners complained of the heavy grievance they suffered, from being obliged to enter into competition with the shipping of other countries not so heavily taxed as this country. He could not pretend to do justice to their claims by any language of his own, and he would therefore state their case to the House in their own words. The petitioners say that "They approach your hon. House, to represent that, in the general distress which affects all classes of the Empire, there exists none more intense and unmitigated than that of the Ship-owners, and to pray that the Legislature will grant them that encouragement and protection from foreign
462dl461460ll459The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,565
Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,56519,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830
19,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.
Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.
The depression in value in the last year only, was about three millions and a half, or about 17½ per cent.Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,565
Total depression in value since 1815, considerably more than cent per cent. £23,252,56519,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830
19,871,81117,394,58437,269,395Jan. 5, 1830Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.
Real Excess Official Ditto.2,377,75420,033,13217,655,378Jan. 5, 1815.Excess.Real Value.Official Value.
Excess.Real Value.Official Value.217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.96,407644110,6811,0051829
96,407644110,6811,005182978,336584128,7521,1351828
78,336584128,7521,135182843,142279163,9461,4401827
43,142279163,9461,4401827207,0881,7191826
207,0881,7191826Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.
217,8851,507Shewing a Total Decrease in Ships and Tonnage since 1826.96,407644110,6811,0051829
96,407644110,6811,005182978,336584128,7521,1351828
78,336584128,7521,135182843,142279163,9461,4401827
43,142279163,9461,4401827207,0881,7191826
207,0881,7191826Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.
Decrease in Tons.Decrease in Ships.Tons.Vessels.4581,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 1827
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 18273,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease
3,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease1,7758,6763094,7901829
1,7758,6763094,79018291,9208,8216734,4261828
1,9208,8216734,42618286,9015,0991827
6,9015,0991827Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 1827
1,847Average Increase of two years491Average Decrease of last two years compared with 18273,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease
3,695Total Increase.982Total Decrease1,7758,6763094,7901829
1,7758,6763094,79018291,9208,8216734,4261828
1,9208,8216734,42618286,9015,0991827
6,9015,0991827Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.
Increase.Foreign Ships.Decrease.British Ships.457456455454 Mr. Alderman Waithman rose
 believed that the shipping interest looked entirely for relief to the reduction of taxes, and the removal of East India monopoly. He hoped that, in the next year, Government would be able to give them some relief with respect to the first point.Mr. Rumbold
467 said, he should have great pleasure in supporting the Petition which had just been presented by the hon. Alderman opposite. He did not feel himself competent to enter so minutely into the subject as he had done, nor indeed would it be necessary for him to do so, as it was impossible to transact business, or hold communication with respectable shipowners, or to look at the state of the shipping now lying in the river Thames, without being convinced that the shipping interests of the country were reduced to the lowest possible ebb, and although the more opulent ship-owners might still for a time be able to struggle on, the poorer class must, he feared, at no very distant period, be reduced to utter ruin, unless some favourable change speedily took place. In corroboration of what was stated by the hon. Member opposite, as to the state of the building establishments at Whitby, he would beg to read a short extract of a letter from that place to a most respectable ship-owner in the city of London, from whom he received it a few days ago. It was written the middle of last month, and was as follows:—"There are four new ships lying here without purchasers; four out of seven of the extensive ship-building establishments are laid down; a vessel has sailed with part of our population for America, and another goes in May." This, he had reason to believe, applied to most of the ship-building establishments in the kingdom. What might be the best remedy for this state of things, he certainly felt diffident in suggesting, but he entertained strong doubts as to the expediency of the reciprocity system now in force; indeed, he doubted much if there could be any fair reciprocity between a country overwhelmed with debt and taxation and other independent states whose burthens were comparatively light and trifling. At all events, it seemed certain, that under the present system, the British ship-owner was unable to enter into suc-
467Mr. Stewart
473472471470469 said, that he was glad he had not risen before the hon. member for Hull, because the observations of that hon. Member would relieve him from saying anything on one part of the argument that had been used by the hon. Alderman and the hon. member for Newark. In the situation, however, in which he was placed, he felt that he should not do his duty, and that he should be deficient in proper respect to the hon. Alderman, who, after so many postponements, had gone at such great length into this very important subject, were he entirely to abstain from making any observations upon it. Into the wide field of our general commercial policy he would, however, by no means enter. The hon. member for Newark had frankly allowed that opinions were by no means unanimous on the subject. If the hon. Alderman had been equally diligent in his inquiries, he would have found that the same was the case with respect to his constituents. He (Mr. Herries) had been informed, that many of the hon. Alderman's constituents had declined signing the Petition, because they could not concur in the opinions which it contained. Among the topics lo which the hon. member for Newark adverted, he was very much astonished to hear the article of timber mentioned. The very name called up the recollection of the particular duties levied on that article with a view solely to give employment to our shipping; and yet that was one of the articles on which the hon. member for Newark had rested his argument against Free-trade. He was at a loss to know whether the hon. member for Newark gave credit to the public accounts or not; as he sometimes appeared to doubt them, and sometimes founded his argument upon them. He, however, was quite prepared to vindicate those accounts. He believed them to be honest, faithful, and accurate. The hon. member for Newark had compared two years without reference to any antecedent period. It would have been more fair had he taken a series of years, some before and some after that change in our commercial policy which he supposed to be the cause of great commercial evil. To set this matter right he would go further back, and show the comparative activity of our shipping at different periods. He would go back to the period of three years before the peace; and he would state the average amount of our shipping
473472471470469Mr. Herries
, though he had not the honour to belong to the country from which this Petition had come, felt warmly interested in the question, and he should certainly protest against the imposition of any additional tax upon Ireland. If assimilation was the object in view, there were two ways of accomplishing that—either by raising the duties in Ireland, or by lowering them in England; and he would certainly oppose the former, while he would support the latter mode of attaining that end.Mr. Cutlar Fergusson
475 was proceeding to explain the manner in which the number of British ships and the amount of tonnage was apparently reduced, by the new system of registration adopted in 1825 or 1826, when an Act was passed directing the
475Mr. Herries
 accordingly gave way to.Mr. Herries
477sd"P. S. I will just state, in addition to the above, a conversation I happened to have the other day with a merchant of Dantzig. I observed to him the strong probability of some relief to our suffering Ship-owners, by an extensive traffic in grain, of which this country will need a large supply before the next harvest. His answer was, 'I have obtained many orders for wheat, but we charter our own Prussian ships for grain; we only take British ships for loading timber, timber-deals, staves, &c.' Now I have seen the day when British ships not only commanded the preference in all valuable cargoes, but it was a common rule to pay them 6477sd476llllddsllslslllsllddss"Proceeding to reply to the subject of your letter at once, of so momentous a nature, I feel great delicacy in hazarding or shaping my answer. I shall confine myself lo a brief statement of a few simple facts, that in the course of my experience have come under my own knowledge, and first:—The deplorable condition of British Shipping. I am owner of two British ships and one Foreign ship; the former, since the Reciprocity Act, I have been unable to employ without loss, the latter has invariably left me a remunerating profit. I pay wages 60476llllddsllslslllsllddss, who rose, he said, to confirm the statements of the hon. member for Newark. He did not mean to gather stories from the moon, but to state a few plain facts, which he found in the letter of a gentleman from Hull, who had been fifty years in trade. The hon. Member accordingly read the following Letter:—
477sd"P. S. I will just state, in addition to the above, a conversation I happened to have the other day with a merchant of Dantzig. I observed to him the strong probability of some relief to our suffering Ship-owners, by an extensive traffic in grain, of which this country will need a large supply before the next harvest. His answer was, 'I have obtained many orders for wheat, but we charter our own Prussian ships for grain; we only take British ships for loading timber, timber-deals, staves, &c.' Now I have seen the day when British ships not only commanded the preference in all valuable cargoes, but it was a common rule to pay them 6477sd476llllddsllslslllsllddss"Proceeding to reply to the subject of your letter at once, of so momentous a nature, I feel great delicacy in hazarding or shaping my answer. I shall confine myself lo a brief statement of a few simple facts, that in the course of my experience have come under my own knowledge, and first:—The deplorable condition of British Shipping. I am owner of two British ships and one Foreign ship; the former, since the Reciprocity Act, I have been unable to employ without loss, the latter has invariably left me a remunerating profit. I pay wages 60476llllddsllslslllsllddssColonel Wilson
 said, that he had been intrusted with a Petition from Sir Jonah Barrington, praying that he might be heard at the bar. That Petition containing some extraneous matter, he had thought it his fluty to send it back to Sir Jonah, in order that it might be amended. He had since received a communication from Sir Jonah, stating that he was seriously indisposed; and one of Sir Jonah's family was, he believed, in attendance, to certify that fact. He thought it his duty to state these matters to the House before going into a committee on this subject.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he had received a similar communication; but from the importance of the subject and the absence of the certificate of a physician, he thought it incumbent on the House not to delay going into committee. At the same time he should wish to be guided, not by his own view, but by the sense of the House.Lord F. L. Gower
"That it is, therefore, the opinion of this Committee, that Sir Jonah Barring-ton has been guilty of serious malversation in the discharge of his office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, and that it is unfit and would be of bad example, that he should continue to hold the said office.""That it appears to this Committee that the opinion so expressed in the aforesaid report of the Select Committee, is fully warranted by the evidence, and is entitled to the concurrence of this Committee.ldsl"10. That the Committee, after full investigation of the whole subject submitted to their inquiry, and after examination of witnesses, and of documentary evidence, came to a report, which has been laid on the Table of this Mouse; from which report it appears, that on the whole, the Commission were of opinion that Sir Jonah Harrington, as Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland, did, in the years 1805 and 1806, under colour of his official authority, apply to his own use two sums, amounting to 500ldsl"9. That the Select Committee so appointed, did take into consideration the matters so referred to them, and that Sir Jonah Harrington, having, in a letter to the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant, expressed his wish to come over to this country to be examined, whenever a Committee should be appointed to consider the report of the Commissioners, the Committee did afford him that opportunity of meeting allegations which so seriously affected his character."8. That the said eighteenth report of the Commissioners, so founded on evidence taken on oath, and on documents, together with the depositions forwarded to the Commissioners by Sir Jonah Barring-ton, and other papers connected with the conduct of Sir Jonah Barrington, in the discharge of his judicial functions, was, by order of the House, referred to a Select Committee, in the last Session of Parliament.489"7. That it is stated, in the aforesaid eighteenth report, that Sir Jonah Barrington having represented his inability to attempt a journey to Ireland, an extract from the minutes of the proceedings of the Commissioners was transmitted to him, containing everything, at that lime deposed to, by which his character might be affected. That, subsequently, sundry communications were received from him, which, with the several letters, addressed to him by the Commissioners in reply, are printed in the appendix to the aforesaid report. That assertions of general denial contained in these and subsequent letters, are the only contradiction or explanation of the foregoing facts, given by Sir Jonah to the Commissioners, which contradiction would have had much weight with the Commissioners had the alleged facts been supported only by the parole testimony of the officer who stated them, but that when the Commissioners found the hand-writing of Sir Jonah Barrington himself supporting the statement of the witness, they could not avoid giving credit to his (the witness's) evidence. That the Commissioners resumed the examination of the Registrar, and that the said Registrar, though aware that the Commissioners had been in communication with Sir Jonah Barrington, who might, if he swore falsely, have suggested means of contradicting him, persisted in his former evidence, and furnished other documents tending to confirm his testi-
489dslldslslldsl488ll"6. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report, that, in the second of those cases, that of the 'Redstrand derelict,' on the 12th of January, 1810, the sum of 200dslldslslldsl488lldsldslldsl"5. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report that it appeared, from the oral and documentary evidence before the commissioners, in the first of these cases, 'the Nancy derelict,' that Sir Jonah Barrington appropriated to his own use, out of the proceeds, 482dsldslldsl"4. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report that statements were made to the commissioners upon oath, and confirmed by documents produced to the said commissioners, by which it appeared that, in two several derelict cases, which were adjudicated in the said High Court of Admiralty, the Judge who then presided, the aforesaid Sir Jonah Barring-ton, had appropriated to his own use certain portions of the proceeds.487"3. That, by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of Ireland, bearing date the twenty-third of May, 1797, Doctor Barrington, now Sir Jonah Barrington, was appointed to the said office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland,
487"2. That the office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland is an office of dignity and importance, on the impartial and uncorrupt execution of which the honour of the Crown and the protection of the rights and interests of many, both of his Majesty's subjects and of Foreigners, engaged in maritime pursuits, greatly depend."1. Resolved—That, in consequence of an Address from the House of Commons, his late Majesty was graciously pleased to issue a Commission under the Great Seal, for examining the salaries, duties, and emoluments of the several officers, clerks, and ministers of justice, within that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland, and that the commissioners so appointed have laid before Parliament eighteen several Reports, the eighteenth of which relates to the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland. That, on the faith of such reports, divers acts of the Legislature have been passed, and are now in force.486 said, that in bringing this subject before the Committee, he should first refer them to two documents which had long been in the hands of hon. Members. Those documents contained the facts of the case, and the grounds of the proposition he was about to submit to them,—a proposition respecting the purity of the administration of justice, which, highly to the credit of the country, had hitherto been unassailed. The first of these documents was the Eighteenth Report of the Commission for Judicial Inquiry into the various Courts of Justice in Ireland, which report regarded the Admiralty Court of that country. That report of the commissioners had, upon a motion of his, been referred to a Select Committee of the House, and the report of that Committee was the second document to which he referred. He need hardly say, that the duty he had performed on this occasion was not a pleasant one: nor need he remind the Committee that, fortunately for the character of the country, he had no precedents by which he could frame his proceedings. He would begin by detailing, as briefly as he could, the facts which appeared in these documents respecting the conduct of Sir Jonah Barrington. The noble Lord then entered into a detail of
"That it is, therefore, the opinion of this Committee, that Sir Jonah Barring-ton has been guilty of serious malversation in the discharge of his office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, and that it is unfit and would be of bad example, that he should continue to hold the said office.""That it appears to this Committee that the opinion so expressed in the aforesaid report of the Select Committee, is fully warranted by the evidence, and is entitled to the concurrence of this Committee.ldsl"10. That the Committee, after full investigation of the whole subject submitted to their inquiry, and after examination of witnesses, and of documentary evidence, came to a report, which has been laid on the Table of this Mouse; from which report it appears, that on the whole, the Commission were of opinion that Sir Jonah Harrington, as Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland, did, in the years 1805 and 1806, under colour of his official authority, apply to his own use two sums, amounting to 500ldsl"9. That the Select Committee so appointed, did take into consideration the matters so referred to them, and that Sir Jonah Harrington, having, in a letter to the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant, expressed his wish to come over to this country to be examined, whenever a Committee should be appointed to consider the report of the Commissioners, the Committee did afford him that opportunity of meeting allegations which so seriously affected his character."8. That the said eighteenth report of the Commissioners, so founded on evidence taken on oath, and on documents, together with the depositions forwarded to the Commissioners by Sir Jonah Barring-ton, and other papers connected with the conduct of Sir Jonah Barrington, in the discharge of his judicial functions, was, by order of the House, referred to a Select Committee, in the last Session of Parliament.489"7. That it is stated, in the aforesaid eighteenth report, that Sir Jonah Barrington having represented his inability to attempt a journey to Ireland, an extract from the minutes of the proceedings of the Commissioners was transmitted to him, containing everything, at that lime deposed to, by which his character might be affected. That, subsequently, sundry communications were received from him, which, with the several letters, addressed to him by the Commissioners in reply, are printed in the appendix to the aforesaid report. That assertions of general denial contained in these and subsequent letters, are the only contradiction or explanation of the foregoing facts, given by Sir Jonah to the Commissioners, which contradiction would have had much weight with the Commissioners had the alleged facts been supported only by the parole testimony of the officer who stated them, but that when the Commissioners found the hand-writing of Sir Jonah Barrington himself supporting the statement of the witness, they could not avoid giving credit to his (the witness's) evidence. That the Commissioners resumed the examination of the Registrar, and that the said Registrar, though aware that the Commissioners had been in communication with Sir Jonah Barrington, who might, if he swore falsely, have suggested means of contradicting him, persisted in his former evidence, and furnished other documents tending to confirm his testi-
489dslldslslldsl488ll"6. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report, that, in the second of those cases, that of the 'Redstrand derelict,' on the 12th of January, 1810, the sum of 200dslldslslldsl488lldsldslldsl"5. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report that it appeared, from the oral and documentary evidence before the commissioners, in the first of these cases, 'the Nancy derelict,' that Sir Jonah Barrington appropriated to his own use, out of the proceeds, 482dsldslldsl"4. That it is stated in the aforesaid eighteenth report that statements were made to the commissioners upon oath, and confirmed by documents produced to the said commissioners, by which it appeared that, in two several derelict cases, which were adjudicated in the said High Court of Admiralty, the Judge who then presided, the aforesaid Sir Jonah Barring-ton, had appropriated to his own use certain portions of the proceeds.487"3. That, by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of Ireland, bearing date the twenty-third of May, 1797, Doctor Barrington, now Sir Jonah Barrington, was appointed to the said office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland,
487"2. That the office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland is an office of dignity and importance, on the impartial and uncorrupt execution of which the honour of the Crown and the protection of the rights and interests of many, both of his Majesty's subjects and of Foreigners, engaged in maritime pursuits, greatly depend."1. Resolved—That, in consequence of an Address from the House of Commons, his late Majesty was graciously pleased to issue a Commission under the Great Seal, for examining the salaries, duties, and emoluments of the several officers, clerks, and ministers of justice, within that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland, and that the commissioners so appointed have laid before Parliament eighteen several Reports, the eighteenth of which relates to the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland. That, on the faith of such reports, divers acts of the Legislature have been passed, and are now in force.486Lord F. L. Gower
490suggested, that as Sir J. Barrington had expressed an inten-
490Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he could not object to the Resolutions being printed.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, Sir Jonah Barrington had already had one opportunity of explaining his conduct. The only question was if the House would afford him another?Mr. C. Wynn
 would beg to read a letter dated April 27, which he had written in answer to one from Sir J. Barrington, containing the wish to be examined by counsel or at the bar of the House. His Lordship's letter stated, that he had nothing to add to the announcement he had already made respecting the course he intended to pursue in his motion that stood for Thursday. He suggested, that if Sir Jonah Barrington was anxious to be heard at the bar of the House, the proper course for him to pursue would be to present a petition to that effect. He mentioned this to put the House in possession of the fact.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from Sir Jonah Harrington upon this subject, but it contained so much extraneous matter, that he had declined presenting it, and had sent it back to have it abbreviated and revised; but this Sir Jonah was, from illness, incapable of doing. He stated this positively, having seen the certificate of the medical men in attendance. The question accordingly seemed to him to be, whether this should be considered a sufficient reason for delaying the vote upon these Resolutions?Mr. O'Connell
t said, that after the Resolutions had been passed through the Committee, and had been printed, it would be time enough to hear Sir Jonah's defence, which might be upon bringing up the Report.Sir J. Newpor
491 thought that if a proper opportunity for defence had not been afforded by the Select Committee, Sir Jonah would be entitled to any reasonable indulgence before the Resolutions were passed, but as he had already had ample opportunity, he apprehended the best course would be to let the Resolutions pass now, and when they
491The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l rose to express his surprise at the easy manner in which the evidence had been suffered to pass off. He was astonished that no indignation had been expressed. He did not wish to press hard upon Sir Jonah Barrington, but he wished to call the attention of the House to the system that prevailed in Ireland, which permitted a Judge to appropriate the public money without immediate detection. Much had been said about the Judge, but he had heard nothing about Pineau, the King's evidence, who was, according to his own confession, guilty of most unjustifiable conduct. Here the hon. Member read a passage from this person's evidence, in which he stated that he had marked on an order, in large letters, 482lMr. R. Gordon
 thought the hon. Member had generalized too much in attacking the whole judicial system of a nation on account of a particular act of delinquency. He considered the House would carry the feeling of the country much more with it by deliberating calmly, and deciding fairly, than by indulging in the exaggerations of the hon. Gentleman. He contended that the proper course to pursue was, to punish the particular offender, and not to deprive themselves of the right of so doing by arraigning the entire system.Mr. S. Rice
492 complained of the tone assumed by the hon. Member, who seemed to think that nobody but Irish Members had a right to touch upon Irish abuses. If, however, he fancied that British Members of Parliament were to be thus put down when they rose to express their conscientious opinions, he would be much
492Mr. R. Gordon
 did not object to British Members interfering with Irish business, indeed he was always glad to have the assistance of Gentlemen in any discussions on Ireland who were not biassed by local prejudices. All he objected to the hon. Member was, that he drew a general conclusion from an individual instance. He did not complain of his observations as unparliamentary, but illogical.Mr. S. Rice
, in reply to those Gentlemen who had complained of the Government not having proceeded earlier and more seriously with the investigation, said, that the delinquencies could not be known till they were discovered, which was at a comparatively late period. The committee which then investigated the business made a report in very just terms, and if the evidence had not been confirmed by Sir Jonah Barrington's own admissions, it would not have been strong enough to proceed on; hence it had been decided to bring the matter before Parliament. Sir Jonah Barrington had been informed of that intention, and he had ample time to have petitioned if he had chosen. He was sure that every Member would be glad if that Judge could disprove the charge. The anxiety was, that he might be acquitted, not condemned; and all the Members would be glad if Sir Jonah, by coming forward, would relieve them from their painful situation.The Attorney General
 stated, in reply to the hon. member for Cricklade, who had accused him, as he thought, of not having indulged in declamation, that it was his imperative duty on such an occasion not to do so. If he had discovered these charges—if he had to explain them for the first time to the House, he should have thought himself bound to go more at length into the subject; but in the present case he was not justified in adding asperity to the charge. The Report from which he derived his principle knowledge of the business had been some time printed, and was in the hands of all the Members, who might, therefore, be supposed to have already formed their opinions on the conduct of Sir Jonah Barrington.Lord F. L. Gower
 Thomson moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House on the Usury Laws.Mr. Poulett
 said a few words, which were not audible in the Gallery, but were understood to imply an assent to the Motion, not pledging himself to support the Bill.The Solicitor General
llllllll494 supported the Bill. The old laws, he admitted, had been made by borrowers; but they were necessitous and unjust, as well as injurious borrowers. He did not agree in the opinions of his hon. friend, who had declared it to be his intention to oppose the Bill. He begged to call the attention of his hon. friend to the principles of that legislation from which the country was just emerging; and which was the delight of our ancestors, and of which the Usury Laws were parts. It was once supposed that the Legislature could regulate the price of articles; but it was now well known that prices were beyond its control. In pursuance of that principle, however, the Legislature made laws regulating the prices of many things, such as labour and bread; and the practice of making such laws was continued down to the time of Elizabeth. Then the Usury Laws were held to be sacred, like a part of religion. Then, too, laws were made regulating the price of food and other things, which, notwithstanding the terrors of the country gentlemen, the Legislature had been obliged to abandon. All laws made for such purposes were made by the buyers, and not by the sellers, as they all had for their object to keep down prices. For his own part, he saw no reason why any restriction should be laid on the use of
llllllll494The Attorney General
498bona fide disapproved of the Usury Laws as they now stood, and was ready to assist in altering them, but he did not think the laws ought to be entirely done away with. In the first place, he would prevent the existing penalties from attaching in 498bona fideThe Solicitor General
 said, that if he agreed to the committal of the Bill, he wished to reserve to himself the right of afterwards resisting it.Mr. Maxwell
466 remarked, that if Members did not take advantage of the opportunity of speaking when petitions were presented, they would have to wait long before they had an opportunity of expressing their opinions. He should, therefore, state his conviction that extension of trade was the only mode by which relief could now be given to the shipping interest in its present depression. He earnestly hoped that the intercourse with the East Indies would be thrown open. Then means might be adopted of restoring the prosperity of other branches so as to render emigration needless, which only weakened our own country, while it strengthened the United States. He trusted, before this discussion
466Mr. Liddell
484ll483482ll481Waithmanl480479478 expressed his sincere regret that a subject of such immense importance, so deeply affecting one of the greatest interests of this country the Shipping interest, should have been brought on in such a manner, and at such a time as the present. He regretted it, because he was convinced that the question, if it had been allowed a fairer and more ample discussion, would have afforded a triumph to many of those Gentlemen, who had not been, but were now, of the same opinions as himself. He regretted it too because the subject ought, to be more amply discussed than it could be when there was only partial attention given to it; and he regretted it also, because it was neither fair towards the particular interests concerned, nor to the credit of their supporters; and still less was it fair towards the House, to bring such a question before it, at a time when it was not possible fully to discuss it. That the petitioners should come before this House with their petitions he was the last man in the world to complain, but he would ask those hon. Members who conceived that the views of the petitioners were correct, and their statements well founded, whether some time and some manner more fitting than the present, ought not to have been chosen for the discussion of the question. If the hon. Member who presented this Petition, which represented, as he thought, a case of very great hardship, would introduce a motion into this House for a Committee of Inquiry, or state, what is far more important, what such committee is to do, he would be acting more in consonance with
484ll483482ll481Waithmanl480479478Mr. Poulett Thomson
496 opposed the Motion. The provision proposed by the hon. Member's Bill, by which no higher than a certain rate of interest was to be recoverable in a Court of Law, was most extraordinary. It was neither more nor less than enacting that a good, valid, and legal contract should be no better than waste paper. After having given the question much of his attention in that House, and in his private lucubrations, he had come to the conclusion, that the repeal of the Usury Laws would be attended with much mischief. As the law now stood, if money were lent to the trader, and the lender took more than his legal interest, he was, in the event of a bankruptcy, looked upon in the light of a partner, and became liable to the creditors. But the effect of the proposed alteration in the law would be to do away with this most salutary check. Then, if they looked at the landed interest, the case was no better. He believed that he was not exaggerating the fact when he stated, that half the rental of all England went to pay the mortgages that were existing on that property. What, then, would be the drag upon the landed proprietor whose estate was mortgaged, if, in the first rise in the value of money, the mortgagee was to come upon him for a higher rate of interest? The answer was obvious. He could not do otherwise than consent to any rate that was proposed, and his estate would soon become irretrievably involved. As soon as war, or any other unfortunate concurrence of circumstances, should have tended to raise the value of money in the market, he would be entirely at the mercy of the lender, and could have no alternative but that of acceding to his terms, however extortionate. The great oversight of the Bill was, that it forgot that the borrower was not, like the lender, in a state of free agency; for it was not till the debt was already contracted in some other way that he came into the market to raise money on such security as he might have to offer. But there was another point of view at which they ought
496Sir C. Wetherell
ss supported the prayer of the Petition. The measure in question would annihilate the Irish press; and if that were the object which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in view, he would undoubtedly succeed in accomplishing it; but if his object were an increase of the Revenue, the very contrary effect would follow this measure. An additional duty of 1ssMr. O'Connell
495 also supported the Bill, be-
495Mr. Sykes
 presented a Petition from the Letter-press Printers of Londonderry, against the proposed increase of the Stamp Duties on Irish Newspapers. The gallant Member supported the prayer of the Petition, which he conceived well worthy of the attention of the House.General Hart
449 gave his cordial support to the prayer of the Petition. His hon. friend, who had just sat down, had objected to the licentiousness of the press, but in his (Mr. Moore's) opinion, if the press were licentious, the press itself was, generally speaking, the best corrector of the licentiousness of the press. Several petitions were on their way for presentation to the House, similar to the present,
449Mr. G. Moore
 declared, that it was his intention to oppose the Bill at every stage of the proceedings. The former laws, it had been said, were made by the borrowers; this Bill, it was evident, was drawn up by the lenders. Never did he see a measure that, in its enactments, carried more distinct marks of its parentage. He considered it, contrary to what the hon. Member had stated that he meant it to be, as a Bill hostile to the landed interest, and therefore he should oppose it at every stage.Mr. Gilbert J. Heathcote
 said, if he refrained from answering the somewhat uncourteous observations of the hon. member for Dover, it was only in obedience to the wishes of the House. He begged, however, to say that what he had remarked about the public documents was, that they were not always to be trusted. With respect to the silk manufacture, the President of the Board of Trade had stated that it was in great activity, and he had proved that by documentary evidence, though it was contradicted by complaints of the manufacturers. Notwithstanding such evidence, he could positively state, that our shipping had decreased fifteen per cent, while that of other countries had increased twenty per cent.Mr. Sadler
465464Magna Charta463 supported, the Petition, and bore testimony to the sufferings of the Ship-owners. The Ship-owners, Shipbuilders, and others interested in this important branch of our national industry, had frequently approached the House with petitions for redress, as at present did the Ship-owners of the greatest mercantile port of the world. They were not like other bodies of men, who came forward to complain of the course adopted by the Legislature, without themselves pointing out any different course. The Shipowners had most clearly and distinctly stated what was the course which they thought the Government ought to pursue, and their recommendation was fully deserving of attention. It was almost an insult to talk to British Ship-owners of the benefits of Free Trade. It was impossible that this country could go on under a system of Free Trade, while it was oppressed, with burthens much greater than were felt by any of the nations on the Continent. He did not mean to deny that the amount of British tonnage had increased within the last three years—he admitted that to be fact—for the English merchants had done all that English skill, industry, perseverance, and activity could effect, but. still they were unable to carry on a competition with foreign nations with any hope of success. He should make no apology for trespassing on the patience of the House while he stated a few prominent facts, prefacing them by the observation, that he had not entire confidence in the documents on the Table in the shape of Returns. The hon. member for Worcester, on a former occasion, had stated the depreciation and di-
465464Magna Charta463Mr. Sadler
 also observed, that he knew from evidence which he valued more than documentary evidence, that the silk trade was not flourishing—the exports having fallen off nearly a million sterling, and the trade being at that time condemned to make a desperate struggle in order to continue in existence.Mr. Fyler
474 said, the right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to answer complaints as to the falling-off in the amount of British tonnage built and registered, by a reference to the amount of British and foreign tonnage entering inwards. This was any thing rather than a satisfactory-answer. The right hon. Gentleman talked of increased activity in the shipping interests,—a fact not denied by those who supported the Petition, but arising, as the ship-owners said, from the necessity of entering more strongly into competition with foreigners. Would the right hon. Gentleman like the same argument to be adduced as a proof of the prosperity of the other interests of the Empire? Would the right hon. Gentleman, for instance, like it to be said that the agriculturists were prosperous, because they were compelled to give two or three crops in order to contend against the effect of the introduction of foreign corn? In the river Tyne, the hon. member for Northumberland well knew, that since the use of steam vessels for the purpose of assisting the
474Mr. Robinson
 also supported the prayer of the Petition. The proposed assimilation of Stamp-duties, he conceived, should be effected, not by raising the duties in Ireland, but by lowering them in England. The petitioners stated, that this proposed increase of duties would destroy the Irish press, and he believed they were correct in that statement. They also stated, that any restrictions on the press were very objectionable, but he (Sir J. Brydges) would confess, that he did not agree with them in that opinion, for he thought that at the present moment the press was a little too licentious. The petitioners, however, he was satisfied, were good and loyal subjects, and he trusted their representations would be attended to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Sir J. Brydges
lsll452l had given notice of his intention to present a Petition on this subject to-night; but as it was before the House, he might as well take that opportunity to state the opinion of the proprietors of Waterloo-bridge with respect to it. The House was aware that upwards of 1,000,000lsll452lSir J. Yorke
 rose to order, and deprecated the continuance of such a discussion as this at such an hour, and brought on merely by Petition, when there was so much business appointed for the House.Sir J. Newport
 presented a similar petition, and stated that if the duties were decreased instead of being increased, there would be an increase of Revenue, and a large increase in the number of publications. In Ireland the latter was particularly wanted, on account of the distance of the people from their Representatives, which required that they should, by the press, be able to control their conduct. He deprecated in the strongest manner the attempt to impose additional Stamp-duties on Ireland.Sir John Newport
 expressed his intention of supporting the Motion.Lord Althorp
497Parliamentum indoctum, was happy that this was not a 497Parliamentum indoctum,Lord Milton
 presented a Petition from the Waterloo Bridge Company, praying that a street may be made from Waterloo Bridge to Tottenham-court-road, &c.Mr. Wallace
 concurred with the petitioners, but thought that they did not go far enough. He would have the English Members unite with the Irish to resist the extension of Stamp duties in Ireland, and to reduce the duties on advertisements and on newspapers in England to a level with the duties in Ireland.Mr. Jephson
 hoped the hon. Gentleman would not hold it as any disrespect to himself if he stated that he considered it inconvenient in the extreme to enter into any of the points of a negociation that was unfinished, on account of any statements that might appear in foreign or domestic newspapers. He thought it more prudent to give no answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, and he loss regretted it, because the papers which related to the whole transaction would be laid on the Table of the House in a short period, when the Members would have an opportunity of knowing what was the real state of the whole transaction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know, whether there was not to be some statement made relative to the distribution of the former grants made under this head, and how the present grant was to be appropriated.Mr. R. Gordon
lll507llll said, that the greatest part of that explanation was already on the Table of the House. Those grants had been made in consequence of what had taken place in 1825, with the view of improving the condition of the negroes, and were, he thought, in unison with the unanimous wish of the House at that time. Salaries were appropriated to Bishops and other clergymen—and other measures were taken for the moral improvement of the population of the Colonies, which had, he believed, fully succeeded. By the arrangements then made, the Colonies were to be at half the expense for erecting chapels, churches, &c. and the Government was to be at the other half. In compliance with this understanding, the Government had frequently submitted votes to Parliament, and sums had been continually granted. The money advanced by the Colonies for this object amounted to 23,930lll507llllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 admitted the correctness of the right hon. Gentleman's statements as to what had been the wish of the House, and he expressed his satisfaction at hearing that means had been taken to improve the Negro population; but he did not know in what papers to find the accounts to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded; unless, indeed, they were to be found under the head of Army Extraordinaries; for it was there that he had once found an account of the expenses of the Bishop's House at Barbadoes. As he conceived, notwithstanding the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, that Parliament ought to have more information on the appropriation of what had been, and what was to be voted, than simply "For building Churches so much," he should oppose the grant.Mr. R. Gordon
l rose to ask, as he saw a sum of 508lSir James Graham
 said, that this charge was for the rent of a house before the present one was built. It was a charge which would not be repeated in future.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l508 said, that the Bishops had been appointed, with the approbation and wish of the House for the ecclesiastical government of the West Indies. At first they were obliged to hire
l508The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was surprised at the notice that was now taken of the expenditure on this subject. The building of churches in the West Indies, and the sending out of Bishops was an arrangement called for by the West Indians themselves, as well as the people of this country. If the colonists would undertake to be at all the expense of subsequently supporting these establishments, they were told the Government would consent to the appointment. The proposition had come from the West Indians, and had met with the support of Parliament. It was thought to be of great importance, and the Government was called on to give it its support.Mr. Wilmot Horton
511(Signed) "J. C. HERRIES."l510lll"Sir:—I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury to transmit to you the accompanying papers, being statements prepared by the Auditors of Colonial Expenditure, showing the Income and Expenditure of Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good Hope, Trinidad and Malta, for periods of ten and more years for each of them respectively, preceding the latest date up to which the accounts are in the possession of the Auditors, and I am to request that you will lay the same before Lord Bathurst, and call the serious attention of his Lordship to the results which are exhibited by these papers. His Lordship will perceive that the collective expenditure of these several Colonies has so greatly exceeded the Colonial Revenues, applicable to the discharge of it, as to have constituted a deficiency, amounting altogether to 2,524,000l510lllth March,Treasury Chambers,th March,Treasury Chambers,509 said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Horton) would confer a great favour on himself and other Members, if he would point out to them where they could find an authentic account of the Colonial expenditure. He confessed that he had sought after this with some diligence, but he had been unable to discover any correct source whence he could learn what was the whole amount of our Colonial expenditure. His right hon. friend would not be surprised at this, when he reminded him of a document recently published—an authentic document, signed by the present Master of the Mint. He was not aware that any change had taken place in the Colonial management since that letter was written. He would, with permission of the House, read the letter, which had been printed at his request. It was a letter from the present Master of the Mint, who was then Secretary of the
511(Signed) "J. C. HERRIES."l510lll"Sir:—I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury to transmit to you the accompanying papers, being statements prepared by the Auditors of Colonial Expenditure, showing the Income and Expenditure of Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good Hope, Trinidad and Malta, for periods of ten and more years for each of them respectively, preceding the latest date up to which the accounts are in the possession of the Auditors, and I am to request that you will lay the same before Lord Bathurst, and call the serious attention of his Lordship to the results which are exhibited by these papers. His Lordship will perceive that the collective expenditure of these several Colonies has so greatly exceeded the Colonial Revenues, applicable to the discharge of it, as to have constituted a deficiency, amounting altogether to 2,524,000l510lllth March,Treasury Chambers,th March,Treasury Chambers,509Sir James Graham
 said, his hon. friend must be aware that the answer to the document he had read had been moved for: and he was surprised that it was not yet laid on the Table of the House. When that answer was laid on the Table the two documents might be considered together; but it was hardly fair to discuss one without the other. He would only observe, that the Colonial Auditors were not appointed by the Colonial Office, but by the Lords of the Treasury. It was, however, of more importance to consider what ought to be, than what had been done, and though there were many official difficulties in the way of the proposition of his hon. friend, he agreed with him in thinking that a regular Estimate of Colonial expenditure ought annually to be submitted to Parliament.Mr. Wilmot Horton
512 said, as he was the author of the letter alluded to, he would say a few words, though he was convinced that it would be proper to postpone the discussion till the other document was laid on the Table. He would, in the first place, say, that the hon. member for Cumberland
512Mr. Herries
505 wished to ask the hon. Gentleman opposite, when he proposed to present the petition from Birmingham, as it was desirable that his right
505The Chancellor of the Exchequer
513 said, as he had not been a member of the Finance Committee, he could not judge of the improvement made in the management of the Colonies by the documents submitted to that Committee; but he saw before him the Chairman of that Committee, and he had lately given to the public, in an authentic form, the result of its labours. Within two months the judgment of that hon. Baronet was, that the Colonial accounts were in a state of unintelligible confusion. It was at that hon. Baronet's suggestion that he had taken the liberty of inquiring into the
513Sir J. Graham
 wished to say a few words on the vote before the Committee. The Government desired to have a large Church establishment and extensive patronage, with Bishops, and fine churches; and in order to have these, it had been anxious to get rid of the Moravians, who were far better qualified to teach both the negroes and the whites of the West-Indies religion than the members of our Established Church. The Moravians were humble men, who lowered themselves to the humble intellect of the people they undertook to instruct. So long, however, as the House voted money, so long would there be Bishops, and churches to be paid for.Mr. Warburton
514 denied that the West-Indians had demanded the establishment of Bishops in the West-Indies, but he remembered that expressions reflecting on the religion of the West-Indians had been used in that House, and he remembered that a Church establishment had been described by several hon. Members as a desideratum in the Colonies, and that the West-Indians
514Mr. Bernal
l maintained, that the West-Indians had desired the appointment of the Bishops, and complained that he had been exposed to the attacks of both parties. He had been censured by one writer, a Mr. McQueen, who had received, it was said, 3,000lMr. Wilmot Horton
 thought it would be better that the documents alluded to by the gallant Officer should be printed and laid before the House, although they were incorrect, rather than that the House should be left without any information.Mr. Maberly
 was of opinion, that a commission appointed by his Majesty would be better to inquire into the Colonial expenditure than a committee of that House: but as the efficiency of such a commission would depend altogether on the persons who composed it, he begged leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman the names of the commissioners.Sir James Graham
 said, that the commissioners were the Earl of Rossyln, the member for Kerry, Sir W. Gordon, Lord Eliot, and himself, and they were disposed to prosecute every requisite inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the works were generally commenced upon the faith of receiving these grants from Parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
516 objected to the grant being at the disposal of Government, as there was no uniformity of system in the application of the money voted for the service
516Mr. Gordon
lll said, the Committee was voting away money in the dark: he would not vote even 6lllMr. Brougham
 said, that the Treasury did not give the money until they received a certificate from the Bishops, that the funds voted by the Colonies were in course of expenditure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l wished to know when the statement that the money had been raised in the Colonies had been received; and how the 6,000lMr. Brougham
l stated, that the certificates from the Bishops had been sent home at various times, the last came, he believed, in the autumn. He could not specify the particular churches the 6,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 inquired how long it would probably be before those documents would be ready? If they were not likely speedily to be ready, he should move that the inaccurate documents be printed.Mr. Maberly
 objected, that it would be a pity to print inaccurate accounts, when no harm could arise from a short delay, particularly as any Member who chose might have access to those accounts in their present state.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the money was chiefly to be expended in Antigua and Barbadoes.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished for the details of the expenditure.Mr. Stanley
 said, that the subject had been investigated by a committee in 1827, and that committee reported, that in order to facilitate the communication between England and the South of Ireland a landing place was necessary, and in pursuance of that recommendation the plan was adopted for which money was then required.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended it was most convenient, on account of its proximity to the public offices.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the sum then moved for was absolutely necessary in addition to the fees received by the officers of both Houses. The little difference between this and former estimates on the same account, arose from a fluctuation in the amount of fees.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to have the Estimate drawn up in a different form in future years. He did not object to the vote; but as the Estimate now stood it was impossible to know how the money was to be applied.Mr. R. Gordon
 would have no objection to meet the wishes of he hon. Member, and in future would take care that the manner in which the different sums, composing the whole of this vote were appropriated, should be set forth.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
cries of "Mr. Moore"520cries of "Lord Camden"ad verecundiamad invidiam said, that the Government had intimated its intention to him of opposing the motion which he proposed to bring forward to-morrow night; in which, if he succeeded, he could pledge himself to the hon. member for Dorsetshire that he would show him the amount of all the principal salaries. And this he knew would answer the hon. Member's purpose, who was as little disposed as himself to stoop to ignoble game, while flights of voracious birds of prey were gloating in the upper regions of the air. They would direct all their efforts against these, and urge them by every argument, cries of "Mr. Moore"520cries of "Lord Camden"ad verecundiamad invidiamSir James Graham
521 complained, that the hon. Baronet, notwithstanding all his professions, did not act with that frankness towards his political opponents for which he was disposed to take credit. The hon. Baronet, in saying that Government had declared its intention of opposing his motion, had only given half the statement that was made to him, because it was added, that the hon. member for Lincoln had moved for a series of Returns so ample that they would embrace all the hon. Baronet proposed, and, consequently, that Government would find it necessary to oppose the granting of any partial Returns. He therefore denied any wish to exclude the House from information on the subject of those salaries. He also thought it extremely hard that he, who honestly, though perhaps inefficiently, discharged his duties in an office for which he received that remuneration bestowed on his predecessors, had been designated as a bird of prey, rather than the hon. Baronet, who enjoyed the income derived from the territorial possessions of his ancestors.
521The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l admitted, that he had, when speaking on this subject, employed a metaphor which had drawn an expression of feeling from the right hon. Gentleman that he was very sorry to observe. He was bound to apologise for the metaphor, which he could assure the right hon. Gentleman he had not meant to be personal in any manner, or offensive to him, when he indulged in it. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly soared into the higher regions with much industry, but without any stain whatever on his character. Having thus apologised for the form of the expression, he must, with every possible deference to the right hon. Gentleman, adhere to its spirit, and must contend that it was unworthy of the Government to cut down the salaries of inferior clerks, while the great officers of the State, possessed of private fortunes, wealthy connections, and ten thousand other advantages which these clerks did not enjoy, were allowed to remain with undiminished salaries. He begged to state now, that he should submit a motion on this subject to-morrow; and he wished to observe, that the motion of the hon. member for Lincoln, which went to obtain a Return of the salaries of all the officers of the Government, from the highest to those who had only 200lSir J. Graham
518 said, he was extremely anxious to effect the removal of the records, and he was happy to tell the hon. Member who had asked the question, that the records of the Com-
518The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l said, that Mr. Stewart's predecessor had other allowances which the present possessor of the office did not enjoy. At the same time his labours were so great, that they were not more than paid by 2,500lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
523l observed, that the salary was not kept up to 2,500523lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
l said, it was disagreeable when these discussions were made personal. The question did not relate to the individual who held the office, and who might fully deserve the encomiums that had been passed on him—but to the pledge which the Government had given that the successor of Mr. Hill should not have more than 2,000lMr. Gordon
l said, that Mr. Hill, who had been appointed alter that Treasury Minute was made, had 2,500lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed that it would be improper to make the place a means of remunerating individuals, but he denied that it was so, and asserted that the great duties of the office, and the great merit of the two individuals, made such a salary not more than sufficient.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l observed, that the Treasury of 1824 thought that the office could not be paid for by less than 2,500lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll answered in the affirmative, and added, that to show how anxious the Government had been to adopt economical principles, it had reduced a Commissioner of Stamps, whose salary was 1,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
525 was also of opinion that the Ministers could not justify their conduct in maintaining the one salary against
525Mr. Stanley
lll opposed the Amendment, on the ground, which had been over and over again stated in debates of this kind—that nothing could be more unwise or impolitic than for Government to put itself in the situation of not being able to obtain the services of those who were most capable and efficient. Mr. Burke had especially dwelt upon this principle in his celebrated speech upon Economical Reform. Mr. Stewart had been Chairman of the Board of Stamps with a salary of 2,000lllMr. F. Lewis
528 said, that at that hour of the night it was impossible that the public business could be well done. He admitted that more business was gone through at that hour than at an earlier hour, but not done—at least, not well done. If there were really so much business before the House, why did not the Session begin at an earlier period of the year, and why did it not continue to a later period? Hon. Gentlemen had a great anxiety to be returned to that House, but had they an anxiety to do
528Mr. O'Connell
 seconded the Amendment.Mr. Maberly
 said, his noble friend the Secretary for Ireland had moved that the Speaker do leave the Chair, and that the Bill in question be re-committed, with a view to its being printed. It was of great consequence to Ireland that that Bill should pass, and the House could not help observing that the hon. member for Clare had taken that opportunity of attempting to arrest the progress of the Bill, by moving an adjournment; but he had not stopped short there—he had read the House a lecture, and it was to be expected that he should teach them by his precepts and his example a better performance of their duty than they could yet boast of. He had told them that speeches had been made in that House which deserved further notice. Yes, it was true, speeches had been made there which did demand a reply; but until that reply had been made, the hon. and learned member for Clare would do well to refrain from lecturing the House in the tone which he had then thought proper to assume.Mr. Doherty
 said, that the hour was not late, nor the number of Members present small, and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. member for Clare would not press his motion.Mr. Slaney
529 observed, it was the intention of the Government to reduce the expenses of the Foundling Hospital in Dublin; but as to the present Bill, it did not commit the House to anything. His object merely was, by printing the Bill, to put Members in possession of its contents. Mr. Rice would support the adjournment if the motion before the House com-
529Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that he did not wish to revive topics connected with the late condition of Ireland, but they had been forced upon him. Recent feelings were no doubt acute, but still more recent circumstances had tended to mitigate them. For himself, he had but one wish, which was, to bury the whole in oblivion; but instead of being met by a reciprocal sentiment, such direct attacks were made upon him, that even the English Gentlemen around, whose knowledge of him must necessarily be imperfect, felt the justice of extending their reproof to the violence of that assault. Though unwilling to press such a subject, he could inform them that he was prepared to bring forward such proofs as would establish every assertion he made, there or elsewhere, respecting the trials that had been alluded to. He confessed he was unwilling to introduce into Parliament that Irish squabble; but after what had occurred, he thought it incumbent upon him to state, that to-morrow he would present petitions relating to the trials at Borrisokane, and to what was called the conspiracy at Doneraille. He had looked at some of the newspapers, and he declared himself perfectly ready and able to support anything he had ever said, and even much of what had been imputed to him. He possessed evidence which there was only one way of avoiding, and that was by the House refusing to give him an opportunity of laying it before them; for every fact he stated he could produce the testimony of the most trustworthy persons; and he had no doubt that the result would be, that the House and the public would feel that those trials were mismanaged, to say the least. On the present occasion his object was to aid, as far as his power permitted, in doing away with the practice of carrying through business at a late hour, particularly business which related to a country in which people had been silenced in more ways than one, including the despotic power possessed by the Irish government.Mr. O'Connell
 said, the hon. and learned Member should recollect that he had indulged in assertions in Ireland that might do mischief, and could not at the moment be answered. As to the latter observation of the hon. and learned Member, he could only say that he was ready to vindicate every act of the Irish Government.Lord F. L. Gower
 inquired if Mr. O'Connell gave notice for to-morrow.Mr. Doherty
 said, he gave notice that to-morrow he should give the names of the petitioners and of the witnesses. He had said nothing that he would not readily repeat. He was sorry that the subject had not been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session, and then the House could perhaps have formed a better judgment. The fact was, that the people of Ireland had become reconciled to each other without the aid of the Government, and contrary to the effect of its measures. He regretted to say that the government of Ireland had done nothing to make the Relief Bill effectual. The gentlemen of the bar, he thought, had some reason to complain: not one Catholic barrister having been elevated to the rank of King's counsel. He did not allude to himself: he had been too long in opposition to the Ministers to admit of their stooping to offer him anything—they would have done wrong in making such a submission as appointing him. If he had not already brought forward the question alluded to, it was from his unwillingness to raise the question of Protestant and Catholic Juries.Mr. O'Connell
l526 felt himself placed in a difficult situation: if he voted according
l526Mr. Maberly
 bore testimony to the extraordinary and most severe labours of the Assistant-secretary of the Treasury: it would be false economy to reduce his salary, especially in the face of the principle established by the Report of the Finance Committee. The Assistant-secretary was the working and controlling-authority of the department, and his responsibility, as well as his labours, was great. To reduce the just rewards of faithful and efficient officers of the State would not be greater injustice to the individual than to the public.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
531 opposed the Motion, on the ground that such a regulation would be imposing a most invidious task on the Sovereign, as it would take from him the privilege, now appertaining to him, of not renewing the
531The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the Motion. He thought it was very hard that individuals like Lieutenants of the Army or Navy should have to pay fees for the renewal of their commissions on the demise of the Sovereign. If the fees could be provided for, he had no doubt there would be no objection to the measure, for the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not oppose it as a mere matter of form, but on account of the fees.Colonel Davies
 thought, that a bill of that description ought not, at that time, to be introduced, and he would therefore move, as an Amendment, that the House do now adjourn.Colonel Dundas
 was of opinion that the fees were paid, not to individuals but to the Treasury, and the Treasury could have no desire to retain them. He wished the fees paid by the officers of the Navy and Army to be remitted, but he thought the bill unnecessary.Colonel Wood
 said, that he must object to the bill, though the hon. Member might probably attain his object by some other means.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that an excellent road had been made for a considerable distance, but there was no means of getting a gentleman's carriage to it. The sum proposed was necessary to complete the communication with the South of Ireland, which would be of great utility to both kingdoms.Mr. Rice Trevor
504ldslds presented two Petitions from the Letterpress Printers of Belfast, against the proposed increase of Duty on Stamps on Irish Newspapers, and on Advertisements inserted in them. The petitioners, as might naturally be expected, were much alarmed at the right hon. Gentleman's statement when he brought forward his Budget, that he meant to propose additional Stamp Duties on Ireland. At the moment that the Government took credit to itself for reductions, it was planning schemes for increasing the existing imposts. Ministers talked of liberality, and attacked that branch of our manufacture, if he might call newspapers a manufacture, which an enlightened Ministry would be the last to attack. He did not attribute to Ministers a cold-blooded desire to ruin the Irish press, but that would be the result of their proceedings. The circulation of all the newspapers would be injured by these new imposts, and some of them would be utterly annihilated. The newspaper trade in Ireland was already a declining one. In 1812 the duty on an advertisement was 1504ldsldsMr. Brownlow
 also thought, that the two motions would not interfere with each other, and he should certainly support that of the hon. member for Cumberland, believing that it would not render his own unnecessary.Colonel Sibthorp
ll said, that he should persevere in his Amendment, and take the sense of the House upon it. He gave more weight to the Treasury Minute, deliberately made, than to the speeches of right hon. and hon. Members who wished that it should go for nothing. His Amendment was to reduce the vote of 24,000llMr. C. Wood
ll said, that after the successive appointments of two individuals at a salary greater than the Treasury Minute of 1821 declared to be sufficient, he could not understand what the right hon. Gentleman meant by saying that it had been the constant attempt of the Government to adhere to that Minute, and to reduce as much as possible the expenses of the Treasury. The question was, whether the House would agree with the Treasury in what they had thus done. He would put that question to the proof, by moving that the vote be reduced by 500llMr. C. Wood
 complained of the tardy and circuitous rout of the post under the existing regulations. Although the expense had been incurred, Ireland derived no benefit from it.Mr. O'Connell
 adverted to the altered circumstances of the country, and observed, that if justice were due to public officers, some little justice was also due to those who paid them.Mr. E. Davenport
l said, that he would postpone it till Monday, when he understood the right hon. Secretary would he ready to attend. The right hon. Gentleman having asked him a question, he would beg leave to ask one in return. It should be remembered that the Parliament was getting old, and indeed it was not expected to survive the year, and it was therefore right that the country should be informed on the subject on which he meant to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman;—this subject was a Protocol, which was said by an Evening Paper to have been signed by the Ministers of France, England, and Russia, and which purported to be an engagement on the part of those three Powers for guaranteeing a loan to the Greek government. The amount was understood (but that did not appear from the document) to be between two and three millions, each Power being answerable for one-third, viz. 800,000lMr. E. Davenport
 was anxious to hear the Government pledged to bring forward next year a sort of Colonial budget, and to declare that he Could not consent to vote any more public money for the Colonies till a pledge of that kind was given.Mr. Portman
ll said, it had been his intention to move that a reduction of one-tenth should be made in all salaries above 200llMr. Portman
 complained of the unprotected stale of the records in Westminster Hall. He suggested that no time should be lost in their removal.Mr. J. Wood
517 thought that it would be
517Mr. Hume
 said, he did not object to the grant. He thought, however, the situation selected for this office had been ill chosen.Mr. Hume
lllllll522 wished to recall the Committee to the consideration of the vote before it, and to the whole subject of which it was a part. The vote was to make good the deficiency in the Fee Fund, part of that going to pay the public servants of the Treasury, who derived their emoluments from no less than fifteen dif-
lllllll522Mr. Hume
 replied, that Mr. Hill, the former holder of the office, had been a man of long experience in business, and yet the same salary was now given to the present officer, perhaps because he was a military man. If Treasury Minutes were to be so violated, he did not see of what use they were.Mr. Hume
 thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to be prepared with more circumstantial information before he came down to the House to ask for a grant of money.Mr. Hume
 said, it would be extremely desirable that the House should have a detailed account of this Estimate, which seemed very large; and before the report was brought up he should endeavour to get some correct information laid before the House.Mr. Hume
 said, that the Treasury Minute had equally recommended the reduction of the salaries of the chief clerks. He wished to know if that recommendation was to be adhered to?Mr. Hume
 said, that at that late hour he would refrain from remarks, and simply move for "Leave to bring in a Bill to render perpetual the Act 57 Geo. 3, c. 45, to continue every person in office at the demise of the Sovereign, until removed or discharged there from by the succeeding King or Queen of this Realm." The Bill he wished to bring in was similar to that passed in 1817; but that was a temporary measure, and his object was to make a permanent law.Mr. Hume
 said, that the letter quoted was dated in April, 1828, and there had been certainly some accounts laid before the Finance Committee. He had urged the Government to have these accounts printed and laid before the House; and he had understood that it was to be done. He was surprised, indeed, that they had not already been laid on the Table; and he could only account for it by supposing that at the Colonial office little or nothing was done. Three weeks had elapsed since one letter was ordered, and it was not yet ready, which was a pretty good specimen of the negligence at that office. Till the accounts he had mentioned were laid on the Table, he, for one, should be unwilling to vote a shilling for the Colonies. The Report of the Commissioners ought, indeed, first to be laid on the Table before any money was voted. The Colonies were loaded with unnecessary officers, with large salaries; they were unable to support their own expenditure, and the country was accordingly called on to support their expensive establishments. He was afraid that Government was tardy in submitting the documents to the House because they would not justify its extravagant expenditure.Mr. Hume
 wished to know, why the people of England should be obliged to pay for erecting palaces for the Bishops of the West-India islands? An end ought to be put to such extravagance. He should certainly oppose such votes. He wished to know why there was every year to be an additional expense under these heads, and he trusted the House would not sanction it by its vote.Mr. Hume
 said, that if Ministers would reduce the rate of duties both in England and Ireland, the Revenue would be rather increased than diminished.Mr. Hume
 said, that the question of the responsibility of this country for any loan to Greece ought to be fully understood; and before they proceeded to vote any further Supplies, they ought to have the whole liabilities of the year before them.Mr. Hume
cries of "No, No!" said, that he must move the postponement of any further Supplies [cries of "No, No!"Mr. Hume
 had no objection to withdraw his Motion, in order to introduce a bill agreeable to the views of the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. Hume
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had mistaken his object, which was simply to prevent the renewal of fees on the demise of the Crown. If that right hon. Gentleman would suggest some modification of the bill that would meet his own views, he would readily adopt it. He was willing to follow any course that was agreeable to the House, and that would attain his object of avoiding the payment of fees.Mr. Hume
 said, that the proposed bill did not stand upon the same ground as the bill it was intended to renew. He did not say that the object proposed was not a good one, but he thought the bill should be made prospective only. At present certain persons had probably a claim for the fees which the bill would take away, and he was not ready to deprive them of their right.Mr. Wynn
 wished to inquire if any alterations were to be made in the entrance and interior of the courts of Westminster Hall, which, in their present state, were found to be extremely inconvenient. He had presented a petition on the subject, and was desirous of obtaining information as to the intentions of the Government concerning it.Mr. Ewart
 wished that the Colonial budget should include India, as the accounts of the finances of that country were formerly laid before Parliament regularly, and with great advantage to both countries.Mr. Trant
 said, if it should be his duty to perform such a task next year, he would willingly bring forward a Colonial budget.Sir George Murray
 admitted that it would be very proper to have Colonial Estimates, both of the expenditure and the receipts of the Colonies; and he should have no objection to prepare such documents, if it could be accomplished in future, though he believed that there would be many difficulties in the way. With respect to the observation of the hon. member for Aberdeen concerning the documents submitted to the Finance Committee, it happened that those documents were very incorrect, and the remoteness of the Colonies had prevented him from obtaining the corrections necessary to make them fit to be submitted to the House. With regard to the letter which had been read, the other document connected with it was about to be laid on the Table, and then the two might be considered together.Sir George Murray
515 said, that those docu-
515Sir G. Murray
 supported the original vote, on the ground of justice to Mr. Stewart.Sir G. Warrender
 was also of opinion, that there was no tax, the reduction of which would so much benefit the people of England, while that reduction would, he believed, increase the Revenue on the Stamp-duties on Newspapers and Advertisements. The subject was so important that it ought to be considered generally and not locally with reference to Ireland alone.Sir H. Parnell
503 observed, that when on a former evening he wished to present a similar petition, he was prevented from making some observations in consequence of the long discussion that took place on another petition, which embraced four different points,—community, unity, navigation and trade,—which were ably discussed by the hon. Alderman, one of the members for London, by the hon. member for Newark, and the hon. member for Yorkshire. The consequence was, that he could not edge in a single word on that occasion. Now he contended that this was a Petition well worthy of the attention of the House. A street from Tottenham-court-road to Waterloo-bridge would, in conjunction with the improvements at Charing-cross, be a great convenience. Various reasons might be adduced in favour of such an opening. One of them was, that it would facilitate the approach to Somerset-house, and various other public establishments. At present there was no outlet to the northern parts of the metropolis, except those very narrow and extraordinary streets through which gentlemen were obliged to drive at present. He thought that a sum of money might, with great advantage, be laid out in carrying a plan of this kind into effect—and he was sure that it would ultimately pay the public. He could see no reason why money should be voted for im-
503Sir J. Yorke
 said, that they had lost half-an-hour in discussing what they should do next. He had three or four petitions to present, and should be glad to take his turn. He did not see that there was anything more indecorous in receiving Petitions than there was in voting money at a late hour.Sir M. W. Ridley
 having been a member of the committee mentioned by the Chancellor of the Exchequer felt himself bound to confirm the statements of that right hon. Gentleman.Lord Ebrington
 was for suspending the vote till next Session.Lord Howick
 wished to know if the grant were to be expended upon churches already begun, or if they were not commenced?Lord Howick
l suggested that the salary of the Chairman of the Board of Stamps clearly ought to be reduced, if, as the hon. Member who last spoke had said, the duties of the Assistant-secretary of the Treasury were ten times more laborious and twice as responsible. Supposing the Assistant-secretary properly paid by 2,500lLord Howick
 said, this was more extraordinary than ever, for it showed that the Government reduced salaries where the reduction was not recommended, in order to be able to continue those which not only that House but the Treasury had recommended should be reduced.Lord Milton
 answered, that these facts only showed that the Lords of the Treasury had twice violated the principle of their own Minute.Lord Milton
l524l remarked, that the result of this was, that in 1830, the right hon. Gentleman thought fit to pay 2,500l524lLord Milton
 observed, that it appeared from the right hon. Gentleman, that this place was, in fact, made a means of remunerating individuals—a practice which he thought quite improper, after that House had recommended, and a Treasury Minute had directed, a reduction of the salary attached to it.Lord Milton
 suggested to the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of providing some secure place also for the records preserved in Doctors' Commons, on which so much of the property of the country depends.Lord Milton
566565 commenced by adverting to the different line of argument, on which the hon. Member had rested a similar motion in the Session of 1823, from that which he had thought proper to adopt upon the present occasion. His proposition had been then grounded on the existence of the Catholic disabilities; but it was now recommended on account of the political circumstances of the country, as well as by economical considerations. Yet he was entirely at a loss to discover the proofs by which the hon. Gentleman established his assumptions. He had asserted, that the defects and abuses existing in the charitable institutions of Ireland would have been remedied, but for the continuance of the office of Lord-lieutenant since the Union, but he had not supplied the House with one proof of his assertion. As to the estimates to which the hon. Member had alluded, he requested the House to suspend its judgment till he should have an opportunity of explaining the whole of the reductions contemplated, and the reasons why they were carried no further. It was not judicious, in his opinion, to debate the present subject so soon after the settlement of the Catholic Question, involving as it did, a great difference of opinion amongst the wise and moderate of all parties in Ireland. He did not pretend to say, that it was a question which the House might not with propriety take into consideration, and still less was he inclined to affirm, that the hon. Member had adduced arguments which deserved to be treated with inattention or disrespect. He was not, however, prepared to assent to his inference, that the subversion of the executive power in Dublin, and its resurrection at the Home-office, shorn of its usual attributes, would be productive of benefit to Ireland. The hon. Member had, moreover, shown his ignorance of the habits and feelings of the Irish public when he appealed to their national pride, assuming that it was violated by submitting to what he termed the degradation of a colonial government. In reality no such prejudice had been ever for a moment entertained by Irishmen of any class whatever. The court of the Lord-lieutenant had not
566565Lord F. L. Gower
570 was surprised to hear it said that the people of Ireland were favourable to the abolition of the office of Lord-lieutenant. He was in Ireland three weeks ago, and was frequently present when the proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen was discussed, and he had
570Lord Oxmantown
 denied that there had been expressions of public opinion in Ireland upon this subject. As a county member, he felt himself bound to say that he should be sorry to see the office of Lord-lieutenant abolished without some more cogent reasons for the abolition than any he had heard that night; and he should, therefore, in the absence of any direct instruction from his constituents, whose opinions on the subject were to be regarded, deem himself bound to oppose the motion of the hon. member for Montrose.Lord Castlereagh
 also opposed the motion, because he was satisfied that, if the office of Lord-lieutenant were abolished, some person, under some other name, must be sent to Ireland, in order to fulfil those duties which were required of the Government, and which could not be efficiently performed by any officer in this country.Mr. Jephson
579578577 said, that he should be unwilling to allow this question to go to a vote, without expressing his entire concurrence with the statement which had been made by his right hon. friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies. In declaring that it was his intention to oppose the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, he begged leave to exempt himself and the government of Ireland, with which he had formerly the honour of being connected, from the accusations which his hon. friend (sir Joseph Yorke) had made, of general corruption in those who formed the administration of that country. For his own part, he could confidently state, that he knew nothing of any such corruption; and he could appeal to all those who were in any way acquainted with the government of Ireland to say, whether the corruption of which the hon. Member had spoken, had any existence, except in his own imagination? From his former connexion with that government, and from the knowledge which his present situation had enabled him to acquire concerning it, he could conscientiously say, that no government had ever a greater desire to promote the interests of a people than the government of Ireland. After these preliminary remarks, he begged leave to make a few observations upon the question then under discussion. In the first place, it appeared to him that the hon. member for Limerick had argued it upon grounds to which his right hon. friend had perhaps offered a sufficient reply. That hon. Member appeared to draw a nice distinction as to the effects of the motion. He contended that it did not call upon the House at once to abolish the office of Lord-lieutenant of Ireland; but merely recommended the propriety of taking the subject into consideration, and of addressing the Crown to ascertain whether it might not with propriety be abolished. He did not admit that distinction. He knew that there were different modes of shaping a motion, in order to attract and to gain over some particular votes; but he was very much mistaken indeed, if the present motion had not been so framed, rather to catch a few votes of persons professing different
579578577The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that the hon. member for Worcester had made out a case that required the immediate and serious attention of the Government. The Colonial Department was called on to decide upon some plan for the improvement of the colony, which could no longer be regarded, as a mere fishing station. If it were considered in the light of a colony, it became the duty of Government to do every thing in its power to assist it. It appeared to him that the disputes about the right of fishing on the coast of Labrador ought to be immediately set at rest. If the hon. member for Worcester could, however, get an assurance from Government that it meant, without delay, to procure some explanation from the American government on this subject, he would advise him to leave the business in the hands of Ministers. If he could bring Government to declare that these complaints should be investigated,—that they should not be laid on the shelf like an old musty record,—he would advise the hon. Member not to press his Motion.Mr. Bernal
 thought, that the Newfoundland fishery admitted of great extension. Those individuals whom he had the honour to represent, depended almost entirely on the manufacture of ropes, lines, and other things used in the fisheries, and it was of great importance to them, and to other persons residing in different places, employed in a similar manner, that the utmost encouragement should be given to the fisheries.Mr. Warburton
 observed, that in the last Session, a bill had come down from the other House, for effecting an alteration in the existing system of the Court of Chancery. That bill disappeared almost immediately. He now understood that another bill which had been in the present Session introduced into the other House, was also about to be withdrawn. In this situation of uncertainty, those who in that House wished to make some reform in the law knew not how to shape their course. He therefore begged leave to ask, if one Chancellor of his Majesty's Government could inform him whether the measure introduced by another Chancellor was likely to proceed?Mr. Brougham
 said, he knew nothing whatever of the rumour to which the learned Gentleman alluded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—Oh! then, I suppose I am to consider the report as utterly groundless.Mr. Brougham
 represented the work to be of great public utility, and described the opposition of the noble Lord as the result of a rivalry between him, the proprietor of the town of Tullamore, and a Mr. Lambert, the proprietor of the town of Kilbeggan.Mr. Alexander Dawson
 defended the loan, as made solely with a view to the public advantage, and denied that there was any jobbing in the transaction, or in any other with which the Government was connected.Lord F. L. Gower
575 said, that from what he had heard, he believed the motion was entitled to his humble support, and to the consideration of the House. No substantial or satisfactory arguments had been used to show why the office of viceroy of Ireland should not be abolished; and in the speeches of the noble Lord and the right hon. Secretary, he had been pleased to observe that they had placed the question before the House simply as one of time; they raised no objection upon principle. But he asked, Why was it not time now? There was nothing to justify the continuance of the office on principle; and if, as was universally acknowledged, a great saving could be effected by the abolition, was it not their duty, as Members of Parliament, to press it on the consideration of the Ministry? He thought the time had arrived. The proceedings of the last thirty years had been founded upon a system of assimilation. First, the parliaments of the two countries had been assimilated; and then in succession various Boards; and, to complete the system, it was only necessary to assimilate the government of the two kingdoms; so that an English cabinet might take the power from the hands of a Lord-lieutenant, who was sometimes with and sometimes
575Mr. Brownlow
 remarked, that if it were known in Ireland that it was seriously intended to bring this motion forward, the House would have heard of it in a very different way from the sentiments uttered by the hon. Member who opposed the question. He submitted, that it was not wise to legislate for a country against the feelings of the inhabitants, and the Irish were universally opposed to this; and with good reason; for it would assuredly increase absenteeism. He was not, and had no right to be, the eulogist of past governments; but he hoped that, under the improved feeling, a person of high rank filling the office of Lord-lieutenant would have an influence over factions which it would be in vain to expect from a government of clerks. He would strenuously oppose the motion.Mr. O'Connell
551550cries of Order from all parts of the House.549 said, the Motion he brought forward referred to an occasion upon which one of the King's subjects lost his life; and, continued he, I should have been ready to explain all the circumstances connected with the case, as well as my object in submitting the Motion to the House, if the hon. and learned Gentleman had asked me a question on the subject,
551550cries of Order from all parts of the House.549Mr. O'Connell
569 adverting to the statements which had been made by the hon. member for Aberdeen respecting the amount of buildings, shipping, &c. in Dublin, observed, that although, since the Union, the prosperity of Dublin had increased only a fifth, the population, and, he believed, the wealth of Ireland had doubled. Much of the prosperity of Dublin was undoubtedly to be attributed to the increased expenditure which the Court occasioned. The inhabitants of Dublin had not petitioned against the proposition of the hon. member for Aber-
569Mr. George Moore,
 could not coincide in the advice which had been given to the hon. member for Worcester, not to press his Motion. He thought that if a committee were appointed, it would be attended with beneficial effects. He could not see why there should be so much delay in arranging the concerns of 80,000 persons at Newfoundland, and it was notorious that no attempt had been made to redress the grievances of that colony. This alone was a sufficient ground, if there were no other for demanding a committee, and he had no doubt that its labours, if one were appointed, would be satisfactory to the colonists.Mr. Labouchere
548547546 said—Sir, in the absence of my noble friend, the Secretary for Ireland, I cannot permit this Motion to be put without offering a few observations. I am much surprised to see that the hon. and learned Gentleman should bring it forward as a matter of course, and that he should call upon the House for these documents without laying down the grounds upon which they should be granted.—This Motion, Sir, has come upon me without notice; I was altogether unprepared for it; still I must raise my voice against it, for it would tend to convert this House into a Court of Appeal, in all criminal cases, from the decision of Juries in Ireland, and
548547546Mr. Doherty
564563562l.l.561560559558557556 in rising, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his Motion respecting the office of Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, enlarged upon the importance of the subject, and claimed the indulgence of the House while he briefly stated the grounds on which he sought to rest his Motion. In the year 1823 he brought forward a motion upon the same subject, which, unfortunately, did not then receive the attention to which he thought it entitled. The present time, however, would prove, he trusted, more propitious. Few who had attended to the state of Ireland but had made up their minds as to the causes of its distress; and with the view of impressing his own opinions upon the House did he then address them. He would not go back antecedently to the period of the Union, but rather confine himself to the time which had elapsed since then. Comparing the time when his former motion was brought forward with the present, he could not help congratulating the House on having gotten rid of one great impediment to the progress of salutary legislation in Ireland. When the former motion was under discussion, the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not say that the time might not come when that Officer and his establishment should be withdrawn from Ireland; his objection was, that the time had not then come, and since then it was gratifying to think that a fortunate change had taken place,
564563562l.l.561560559558557556Mr. Hume,
592 charged the Colonial Department with negligence in its conduct towards this colony; and contended that, the labours of a committee could alone remedy the evils occasioned by that negligence. If a committee were appointed, it might investigate many important points, and especially how it happened that Newfoundland had lost its fisheries; and how it happened that the fishermen,
592Mr. Hume
 in reply, said, that he had not heard a single argument from any member of his Majesty's Government, which did not go to support the Motion. All the difference between him and them was, as to the point of time at which the change was to take place. They were told the people of Dublin would not like the change; but was that House to consider the feelings of the people of Dublin, when opposed to those of the rest of Ireland, and the whole of the empire? The great argument urged against his proposition was, that it would make more absentees than at present; but in his opinion the office of Lord-lieutenant was the cause of absenteeism, and it was to put an end to a faction, and destroy a source of mismanagement, which drove liberal men out of the country, that he called on the House to give its assent to the Motion.Mr. Hume,
568567 had heard nothing from his noble friend that could create any rational idea that the question was not fit for parliamentary discussion. The proposition was not for the abolition of the office of the Lord-lieutenant, but merely for an address to the Crown to consider whether the present system of local government in Ireland was necessary to be continued. The hon. member for Aberdeen had made out a case to warrant an inquiry, first, upon the ground of good government; and, secondly, upon that of economy. He did not believe that his Motion would be unpopular in Ireland, not even in Dublin, except with those immediately in connexion with the expenditure of the Castle. The time was not distant when Government would be obliged to come down to the House with some such proposition, and it was fitting to hasten its motions. The early tendency had been to localize everything in Ireland, but the present tendency was to assimilate the two countries. Nothing could be more injurious to Ireland than the system of constant shifting and changing in the government. Chief Secretary had followed Chief Secretary, and every one seemed to have been selected with the view of contrasting him with his predecessor. Let the House look at the long list of Chief Secretaries
568567Mr. Spring Rice
574573572 said, that he was induced to offer a few observations to the House upon this subject in consequence of the great interest which he took in all questions which were connected with the condition of Ireland. In reply to the observation of the noble Lord, that there was a continual change in the system of governing Ireland, owing to the frequent change of its Lord-lieutenants, he would merely say, that the system of government in Ireland did not depend upon the individual who was Lord-lieutenant, but on the administration in England to which he owed his appointment. The vacillation observable in the policy pursued by the different Secretaries of State for Ireland was not attributable to the individual character of the different noblemen who had acted as viceroys, but to the system adopted by the administration in England. That vacillation was now at an end, for a new system had recently been adopted with respect to Ireland, which would be beneficial, he trusted, not merely to that country but to the empire at large. It had been stated by the hon. member for Limerick, that the government of the Viceroy was of no importance, for that, although there were a Lord-lieutenant and a Chief Secretary, the authority was not in their hands, but in the hands of a nameless body to which he alluded, but which he said was too contemptible to be named, and could not be known to the House. If the hon. Gentleman would point out to the House how that body could be removed he would cordially give him his support, or if the hon. Gentleman could prove that the existence of this body was the necessary and unavoldable accompaniment of a Lord-lieutenant, he would admit that he had made out a case for the removal of the vice-regal government. Another objection to the office, made by the hon. Gentleman, was founded on the supposition, that if the Lord-lieutenant concur in the views of the Government, his presence was not necessary in Ireland—they could do as well without him. He did not agree with the hon. Gentleman in that opinion. The viceregal government in Ireland was, in
574573572Sir G. Murray
555554 said, that the House would, he hoped, excuse him for trespassing on its attention for a short time, while he gave an explanation of this subject; for in his mind there was no circumstance of more importance than one which affected the conduct and treatment of a Judge. It appeared to him that the respect due to the judicial station and to the abilities and learning of men who were selected to undertake it was such, that the removal of any one of them from his high office rendered it proper that the circumstances occasioning it should be brought under the consideration of the House. He was happy that this Petition of Mr. Willis had been placed in the hands of the noble Lord opposite, whose character and conduct were so highly and so deservedly respected by the House, and who was able to give every effect to a petition thus intrusted to him. It might be proper for him to enter a little into the history of Mr. Willis. That gentleman had been recommended to his office by Sir C. Wetherell, at that time Attorney-General. Soon after he went out to his office as a Judge, in Upper Canada, the Chief Justice, who had been there for seventeen years, and was suffering much from ill health, asked leave of absence from the Governor, for the purpose of returning home. During the first Term that occurred after the departure of the Chief Justice, Mr. Willis regularly discharged his duties; but between the first and second Terms he came to the opinion that the Court was incompetent to sit unless all the three Judges were present, as the Statute said that the Chief Justice and two Puisne Judges should preside there. Mr. Willis intimated his intention, on the first day of the Term of making this opinion public. The other Puisne Judge differed from him on the subject, and
555554Sir George Murray
 in explanation, said, that the Governor of that colony had been put in possession of the fullest information, on the point alluded to by the hon. member for Montrose by his predecessor, the late Secretary for the Colonial Department.Sir George Murray,
591590 was of opinion, that the hon. Member had not made out a case that rendered it necessary for a committee of that House to inquire into the state of Newfoundland. The original policy of the Government was to make that colony a nursery for seamen. That system, however, had been altered, and colonization, though it was never encouraged, had gone on to a considerable extent. The consequence was, that there was now a population of 80,000 or 90,000 souls. The old system having been abandoned, they could not return to it, and all they could do was, to give to this nucleus of population every possible support, and that he contended
591590Sir G. Murray
593 in reply, observed, that the answer of the right hon. and gallant General was directed entirely against the form of his Motion. He had not said a word in answer to the case which he had made out. A committee of the House would, if not in this Session, at least in
593Mr. Robinson
l.589588587de facto,586585584583582581 said, he rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for a Committee of Inquiry into the state of the Colony of Newfoundland. He would not trouble the House if he did not feel the subject to be of considerable importance, and worthy of the serious consideration of Parliament. There was, he believed, no one of our Colonies of which the condition was so little known as that of Newfoundland, though the Members of that House legislated for it. The few Acts of Parliament brought into that House for the regulation of its affairs, were concocted at the Colonial Office, proposed by some individual connected with the Colonial Department, and passed into laws by those majorities which the Ministers could always command. They were introduced probably at a late hour, and hurried through the House without explanation or remark. Under such circumstances he had a right to claim the attention of the House while he stated the complaints of the inhabitants of Newfoundland. They complained, and he thought they had a right to complain, of the line of policy which had been pursued by the Government of this country
l.589588587de facto,586585584583582581Mr. Robinson
l. said, he would shortly state the grounds on which he agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen. As to the benefit which the people of Dublin derived from the expenditure of 30 or 40,000l.Sir H. Parnell
576 said, the arguments of the hon. member for Montrose were unanswerable, and he had no doubt they had produced a very considerable effect on the understanding of all the members of that House. For his part, the very reason given by some persons for opposing the motion was the reason which induced him to support it. It was because Ireland was no longer to be considered a colony, but an integral part of the empire, that he desired to see the distinction of a Lord-lieutenant abolished. Ireland was now an integral portion of the empire; and he should vote for her being considered so by the abolition of this useless and expensive office. The government of Ireland had ever been a most corrupt one, celebrated for jobbing and chicanery, and
576Sir Joseph Yorke
571 said, that it was perhaps doubtful whether this office ought to be abolished; but, for himself, he had nearly made up his mind that it ought. Nothing was, in his opinion, more useful than unity of government, particularly in governing a country difficult to be governed—and such was Ireland. Besides, the peculiar advantages of a monarchical government was always supposed to consist in its steadiness; which, it was contended, more than compensated for the great difference existing between its expense as compared with that of a republic; although, in fact, the trappings of Royalty cost more than all the establishments of a republic. But in Ireland they had only the trappings, and not a single advantage of a monarchical form of government, since they had that perpetual change which was considered so destructive. Besides, there was no more reason for supporting a separate local government in Ireland than in any one of the northern counties of England, for the communication between them was just as easy; and if Lord-lieutenants of Counties were established, as in this country, all the difficulties urged against the measure might be met, except that respecting the administration of justice. As the hon. member for Aberdeen, too, had so clearly stated, there would be a great saving effected by the
571Lord Althorp
553552 said, that he thought this not an unfit time for him to draw the attention of the House, and of his right hon. and gallant friend opposite, to the case of Mr. Willis, who had intrusted him with a Petition. That gentleman had held the office of Judge in Upper Canada, and had been suspended and removed by the Governor, in consequence of an opinion he had expressed relative to the constitution and power of the Court of which he was a member. By the Act which established that Court, it was provided that it should consist of one Chief Justice, and two Puisne Judges. Soon after Mr. Willis joined the Court, the Chief Justice obtained from the Governor leave of absence from the colony, and accordingly quitted the country, leaving the duties of the court to be performed by the two Puisne Judges. In the course of the performance of his duty, it occurred to Mr. Willis to inquire into the legal constitution of the Court, and whether the Judges could legally carry on business without the presence of the Chief Justice. Whether the conclusion at which Mr. Willis arrived were correct or not, he meant to
553552Lord Milton
626 said, when he came to the House he did not intend to make any observations on the subject of the debate; but being a resident in the county in which those trials took place, and having been present at them, he felt himself bound to come forward and declare, that he cordially concurred in the statements made by his hon. friend, the member for Clare. The hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, had charged his hon. and learned friend with dexterity; but had he shewn no dexterity himself? In order to bring down a few dull cheers from the benches behind him, he had gone into a variety of topics—indulged in sneers and sarcasms—and followed his hon. and learned friend through every tavern and meeting in Ireland, in order, by quoting his speeches, to excite a feeling against him. But that was diverting the attention of the House from the real question. Was it not to draw away their attention that he flung out his sarcasms against his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, whom the hon. and learned Gentleman designated an unlearned Member? Would to God there were a few more such unlearned Members, and then the triumphs would not be always on the side of venality and corruption. The real charge made by the hon. and learned member for Clare was, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor General for Ireland, when he sought to convict these men, had evidence before him which made their criminality doubtful, and on which no jury would have found them guilty. How had he met that charge? First, by throwing it off himself on the learned Judge, and asserting that he also had the depositions under his hand on the first and second trials, though he only drew the attention of the Jury to them on the third trial; and, secondly, by underrating the evidence of Daly, and treating lightly the contradictions and discrepancies between it and his depositions. He was himself present when the learned Judge handed down the depositions, and from his look and manner it appeared, that they had come upon the Court, as they certainly did upon him and the counsel for the prisoners—completely by surprise.
626Mr. Jephson
639638637636 said, as he had read neither of the speeches in question, nor the trial that gave rise to them, he might be considered in the light of an impartial person, and he must, in that character, say, that the charge so calmly and moderately brought forward by the hon. and learned member for Clare, appeared to have been founded on a mistake, and that, therefore, his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General for Ireland, had no occasion to enter at length into his own vindication. The hon. and learned member for Clare had been influenced,—naturally influenced,—to a certain degree, by the fact of having been counsel for the prisoner; but, notwithstanding the calmness of manner with which he brought
639638637636The Attorney General
 said, that having acted as one of the jurors, on the second of the trials which had been referred to, he felt bound to bear his testimony to the propriety of the course which had been followed on that occasion by the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland. The jury, of which he formed one, could not agree, they did not differ as to the guilt of the prisoners, but merely as to the degree of credit due to some of the witnesses, and the gentleman who held out (Mr. Morrogh) acted, as he was well aware, from the purest and most conscientious motives. He conceived that it was absolutely necessary to institute those prosecutions at the time, and in the conducting of them the learned Gentleman did not travel out of the line of his public duty, but on the contrary, pursued a perfectly correct and humane course, and one which did not in any respect justify the charges which had been made against him.Mr. D. Callaghan
646645 assured the House that he should occupy its time but for a few moments with the observations which it occurred to him to make upon this Motion. In the first place he should enter his decided protest against it, being of so general and indefinite a nature, that it aimed at every thing and might be applied to any body. The hon. and learned member for Clare had eulogised the learned Judge who tried the cause, as being above suspicion for his conduct; but soon after
646645The Solicitor General
648647 said, that he came down to the House totally ignorant of the course the debate would take; but under all the circumstances of the case, and with his feelings and knowledge of the subject, a necessity was imposed on him to resist the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Clare, and particularly that part of it which related to the production of the Judge's notes. As good and satisfactory reasons, in a legal point of view, had been adduced to the House against the productions of them, by the hon. and learned Gentleman on the Treasury bench, it would be presumption in him to engage in a discussion on that part of the subject. It was his lot to enter upon the question entirely un endowed with that learning which the hon. member for Colchester disclaimed,—but which it was impossible for that hon. Gentleman, either upon this, or any other occasion, entirely to divest himself of. It had been his duty, however, to look into all the facts of this case; and his hon. and learned friend knew that he had most laboriously endeavoured to investigate them. When he found the case was put forward,—either upon the ground mentioned by the hon. member for Colchester, or on the fact of the deposition of the 29th of April, so often alluded to in the course of these transactions having been kept back; and when he found that it was assumed that the production of that deposition in Court would necessarily have proved the witness, whose evidence was in question, to be perjured; he could not hesitate at once to oppose the Motion, the assumptions being totally void of foundation. There was no discrepancy of importance, between the evidence brought forward on the trial, and the deposition so often mentioned. The evidence contained
648647Lord F. L. Gower
644vivâ voce643642641640 said, he could not avoid expressing his surprise at the strange construction the hon. and learned Member opposite had put upon this Motion. He had throughout his speech regarded it as an attack upon himself; but he did not look upon it in that light, nor had it been brought forward upon such grounds by the hon. and learned member for Clare. Certainly it should not have his support if it were a mere personal attack upon the hon. and learned Gentleman. That hon. and learned Gentleman had exhibited a laudable anxiety to free himself from the charges which might attach to him, in reference to this affair, but had not exactly adopted the course best calculated to establish his innocence; for he granted to the hon. and learned member for Clare a
644vivâ voce643642641640Mr. D. W. Harvey
658Mr. O'Connell took up the Parliamentary Debates and read657656655654653Several Members named Lord Kilwarden.652651A cry of Mil-borne Port—Mr. North.arbiter elegantiarum650Lord Leveson Gower returned to his seat.649—Sir, I avail myself of my right to reply, and I am able to subvert the sophistry by which the learned Gentleman is sought to be protected. Let me set myself right as to some of the assertions that have been made. In the first place the hon. and learned Gentleman has stated my definition of perjury. My opinion is, and I so stated it on the trial, that the breaking of a lawful oath, or the taking of an unlawful oath, is perjury. I was talking to the witness of the nature of perjury; and I then said, that if he had broken a lawful oath, or taken an unlawful oath, he was equally guilty of perjury. Secondly, the hon. and learned Gentleman, by going through a speech of great length, and which was rendered sufficiently ludicrous, notwithstanding its unwieldy length, by the tragic tone in which it was delivered, has arrived at the Sub-letting Act. The Sub-letting Act in this discussion! I cannot conceive how the Subletting Act can form a part of the Solicitor General's defence of his conduct; but he has the happy talent of introducing matters quite irrelevant. Why, Sir, he might as well have introduced any other event that
658Mr. O'Connell took up the Parliamentary Debates and read657656655654653Several Members named Lord Kilwarden.652651A cry of Mil-borne Port—Mr. North.arbiter elegantiarum650Lord Leveson Gower returned to his seat.649Mr. O'Connell
604"omni exceptione major."603602601600599598597 spoke to the following effect: Before I proceed to bring forward the Motion of which I have given notice, I wish to observe, that the notice for this day which appears on the paper, relative to the homicides at Borrisokane, must have got there by some mistake, for which I cannot account, as my notice relative to that affair was for Tuesday next. This I am at a loss to explain, as there was no mistake on the subject in the public papers. The notice which I gave for this day, and upon which I rise now to move, is one for the production of documents which I deem necessary in order to enable the House to judge correctly upon a matter of serious importance as connected with the administration of justice, and to make it as probable as possible that I may obtain them, I shall limit the number as much as is consistent with the objects I have in view; and I will begin by stating, that although my notice is for the depositions of all the witnesses examined on the Special Commission at Cork, I shall now limit myself to moving, in the first place, for the depositions of but one witness, Patrick Daly; and, secondly, for the notes of the learned Judges who presided at these trials. Each of these Motions require a different consideration, but in both I shall lay grounds plainly and distinctly, to entitle me to the information I require. Before moving for these documents I shall state the specific subjects of each, and then I shall show how they are to be applied. The object I have in view is that of bringing before the House a complaint of the mode of preparing criminal cases for trial in Ireland, by Magistrates taking depositions without the knowledge of the parties charged; which appears to me a bad, a dangerous, and an unjust practice. I shall, for this purpose, instance the particular case of the Doneraile Conspiracy,
604"omni exceptione major."603602601600599598597Mr. O'Connell
625I loved him living, I adore him dead"—"Oft has his voice my captive fancy led,624hear, hear, hearloud cheers623622621620619618Cheers.to to617616615614613612611610609608607606605 said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman had occasion to apologise to the House, and to thank the Members for their patient attention, he sincerely felt that he himself had much greater occasion for their indulgence, compelled as he found himself, to enter at considerable length into all the circumstances of those trials, the hon. and learned Member had
625I loved him living, I adore him dead"—"Oft has his voice my captive fancy led,624hear, hear, hearloud cheers623622621620619618Cheers.to to617616615614613612611610609608607606605Mr. Doherty
 explained, that it was a mistake to suppose that the depositions were not in the hands of the Judge on the trial, and had been brought by Mr. Creagh. They were returned to the Crown-office three months before the trial. Baron Penne father had asked him if the discrepancy had attracted his notice, and it had, but he thought the omission strengthened rather than weakened the testimony of Daly, and therefore, if he had noticed the circumstance, it could not have been in any manner favourable to the prisoner.Mr. Doherty
631630629628, in answer to what had fallen from the hon. member for Mallow, maintained, that wherever calumny was uttered, whether at taverns, at public meetings, or elsewhere, there the calumniator ought to be sought after and exposed. The hon. and learned member for Clare professed to approach the subject with great moderation; his hon. and learned friend also wished to approach it with great moderation, and what they objected to in the hon. and learned member for Clare was, that he had one tone for Ireland, and another for that House; that he reserved all his violence for one side of the channel, and all his moderation for the other. His hon. and learned friend was charged with
631630629628Mr. North
635634633632 said, he had never listened to any statement made with more temper and moderation than that of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Clare; a temper and moderation strongly contrasted by the pomposity, and he might almost say insolence of manner, of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken. He regretted to observe the cheers with which the hon. and learned Gentleman's remarks had been received by those Members who sat in his neighbourhood; for he had hoped that Ministers would have had the good sense to soothe rather than to increase any exasperation arising out of the occurrence in question. Was there a word, he would ask, which fell from his hon. and learned friend, which called for the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman? They might talk of his hon. and learned friend's tone and manner being sometimes like those of a lion, and sometimes like those of a puny dog; but he would not advise his hon. and learned friend to take
635634633632Mr. Hume
 seconded the Motion.Mr. Hume
 rose to defend the conduct of the Chief Secretary for Ireland. Long after party feelings had ceased, he said his solicitude for the welfare of that country would be recollected with sentiments of gratitude. His character would stand high in the favour of the people of Ireland, when the attacks of the hon. and learned Gentleman were forgotten.Mr. Perceval
hear627 said, that the real question was, whether there was any foundation for a charge against the Law-officers of the Crown in Ireland having neglected to put forward a document by which the evidence of the witnesses for the prosecution would have been submitted to a proper test, and the case of the accused parties been placed in its true light. When first the hon. and learned Gentleman had approached the subject of the charge, he confessed he thought it appeared to him that he had very indirectly approached it, and the result promised to be any thing but satisfactory in the way of exculpation of his conduct. The explanation, however,
hear627Lord Althorp
673, in presenting a Petition against the monopoly of the East-India Company, took the opportunity to inquire whether the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies was aware what portion of the
673Mr. Stanley
 wished that the right hon. the member for Liverpool had been present, because he was interested both in the quantity of Sugar imported from the Mauritius, and in the fact of Slaves having been imported into that island. He certainly did not calculate on such a large quantity of Sugar being brought from that country, and as it was alleged to be partly Java Sugar, the subject was worthy of the consideration of the Government.Mr. Bernal
, in presenting a Petition from 697 of the inhabitants of the City of Edinburgh, praying for the abolition of the Punishment of Death in cases of Forgery, stated, that the signatures of a considerable number of the petitioners were those of men of the most distinguished ability in Edinburgh. There were Clergymen of all denominations, the leading Professors of the University, the chief members of the Bar, and eighteen Bankers, in a city the chief business of which was banking. The latter body of petitioners especially stated their insecurity under the present system of law. He thought that the nature of these petitions, and the classes of men who had signed them, showed that the people of this country were ripe for the abolition of the punishment of death in case of Forgery.Sir J. Macintosh
 said, that on every occasion when this question was discussed, he should support the abolition of the punishment of death; for he was persuaded that it was not for the interest of the bankers that it should be maintained.Mr. Williams
675 bore testimony to the high respectability of the petitioners, and said, that if the House should be of opinion that the law ought to be altered in this country, he should certainly do his best to introduce the alteration into Scot-
675The Lord-Advocate
 said, the question was one of great importance, affecting the general feelings of the people on one side, and the interests of very numerous classes of men on the other; and any alteration of the law that should destroy the security of signatures, as respected bills and notes, would be most mischievous. His decision upon the question would depend on what the advocates of the abolition of the punishment of death offered in the way of a secondary punishment. Transportation for seven years would be treating it with too much levity, and transportation for life was a less punishment than for a shorter period. If the remedy were imprisonment, with hard labour, or any other punishment which, in the opinion of mankind, would not convert the offender into a pitied sufferer, he might, perhaps, support it, especially if the offender were taught not to look for an early remission of his punishment. He did not say, that he wished the punishment of death to be inflicted for Forgery, but he would say, that a punishment ought to be inflicted sufficiently severe to operate as a terror to those who would otherwise be inclined to violate the laws, and to attack private property. He must, however, observe, that if this alteration were made in the criminal law, it must be extended further: for he could not see, if they removed the penalty of death from Forgery, how they could retain it in other cases, that of sheep-stealing for instance.Mr. Baring
678 agreed with the hon. Baronet, that at present transportation was a punishment very different from what it once was, and thought it might be rendered a punishment of great severity. Certainly it was no sufficient excuse for a government to adopt the punishment of death, because it had not succeeded in making transportation severe enough. He was satisfied that, under proper regulations, it would be a more efficacious punishment for Forgery than the punishment of
678Lord J. Russell
 said, it had been stated that the severity of the law prevented prosecutions in cases of Forgery; but many persons might be deterred from the commission of the crime by apprehensions of the severity of the punishment. The effect might be injurious to property if the law were too suddenly relaxed. On this point he admitted it might be difficult to form a precise opinion, but the experiment would certainly be hazardous in a country where such a large amount of property was at stake. In his opinion, his right hon. friend (Sir R. Peel) acted wisely in proposing gradually to remit the punishment of death, first abolishing it as applicable to one class of forgeries, thus giving an opportunity to conjecture what might be the effect of withdrawing capital punishments in other cases of the crime, by observing the consequences of the mitigation in a single instance. This was the safest, and, he was sure, would ultimately prove the most humane course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had only to look at the petitions proceeding from the monied interests which had been presented in favour of the abolition of capital punishments in cases of Forgery, in order to see how ill-grounded were his apprehensions. The right hon. Gentleman spoke of the hazard of relaxing our present system, but did he perceive no danger in statements being made, as they had been, and would be, on the part of bankers, expressive of their determination not to prosecute in cases of Forgery while the law continued in its present state? Was there no danger that such declarations and such a practice (both growing out of the seventy of our code) might increase the crime of Forgery? He thought that the statement made by the Lord Advocate furnished an argument in favour of a mitigation of punishment. The learned Lord said, that during twelve years, the crime of Forgery had not increased in Scotland; and he also stated, that although the punishment of death in such cases nominally existed in that country, yet that it was, in point of fact and practice, abolished. Did this state of things furnish any grounds for apprehensions, that the monied interests would be less protected than at present, if capital punishments in cases of Forgery were abolished? He had no doubt we might substitute a more effectual preventive for the crime of Forgery than was afforded by the punishment of death. He should have a variety of petitions to present on the subject, calling for the abolition of capital punishment, and he had received letters from many bankers, expressive of their disapproval of the existing system.Mr. Lennard
 said, the present law was decidedly bad, because it was contrary to the feelings of the people; even bankers would not carry it into execution. There was a committee of bankers established, before which, every banker who was a member of it was expected, as a matter of duty, to bring all forgeries that might be committed upon him, in order that the culprits might be prosecuted, but he knew that bankers did not act up to the spirit of this regulation, and why did they not? It was because the punishment was too great. Every day's experience proved, that the law as it stood was bad. It was the certainty, not the severity of punishment, that prevented crime.Mr. Warburton
 knew from observation and personal experience that the severity of the punishment prevented prosecutions in nine cases out of ten. The case of the bankers was a hard one. Their feelings would not allow them to prosecute while the penalty of the offence was death; and thus they were without protection against this dangerous crime of forgery.My. Marry at
690s.689c.s.s.,s.,688s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.687l.l.l.l.;l.;l.;686685684683, in bringing forward, pursuant to notice, his Motion for a Select Committee to consider the means of lessening the evils arising from the Fluctuation of Employment amongst manufacturer, said, he should have been much surprised at the thinness of attendance, if he were not aware of the character of the House. He knew the subject was not a pleasant one, and he must throw himself on its indulgence while he went into some details. If they looked to the humble portion of their fellow-countrymen, they would see them divided into large classes—both distinct from each other, and both in their present situation demanding the attention of the Legislature. The first of those, the agricultural class was affected by circumstances entirely distinct from the circumstances which affected the second; and the agricultural labourers of the south were in quite a different situation from those of the north of England. Incidentally he might observe, that the people of the south were some time since in a worse situation than at present; and he hoped they would speedily improve, and be in as good a condition as their brethren of the north. Before he should proceed to consider the situation of the other great class, the manufacturers, he begged to say that he feared there existed, with respect to them, some prejudice, some fear, lest the manufacturing class might be extending too far; but if those who indulged such a prejudice would only allow themselves to take a large and liberal view of the interests of society, they must perceive that the interests of both classes were closely united—that they were inseparable, and that the advancement of one must always depend upon the success of the other. For the purpose of establishing some of the positions for which he contended, it would be necessary for him to enter somewhat into detail. He should begin by calling the attention of the House to the relative amount of the agricultural and manufacturing population at
690s.689c.s.s.,s.,688s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.687l.l.l.l.;l.;l.;686685684683 Mr. Slaney
691 seconded the Motion. He did not anticipate all the benefits from it that his hon. friend expected, but he thought at least that some valuable information might be obtained. He was happy to say, that the average wages of workmen in the manufacturing districts were now as great as at any former period,
691Mr. Marshall
s.s.692d. said, he did not mean to enter into the subject at any length, and he should detain the House but a very few minutes by his observations. He did not rise to throw cold water on the hon. Member's Motion, but to guard the House against supposing that the plan of the hon. Member would be as advantageous as he supposed. He admitted readily, that nothing was more beneficial to the working classes than Benefit Societies, and he could say that he had, on many occasions, witnessed the advantages they had conferred on the members of them. But the House was aware that many benefit societies had been destroyed, by not acting on the recommendations of an hon. Member below him, in becoming enrolled. When the hon. Member, however, assumed that the House might look to the extension of the principle of such societies, to equalise the fluctuations in trade, he was afraid that the difficulties would be far greater than the hon. Member expected. He wished that the committee might find men with an amount of earnings sufficient to subscribe to such funds. The hon. Member had stated correctly the earnings of several classes of workmen, but they seemed to him so moderate as to preclude the workmen from making those weekly allowances which were necessary to support a Benefit Society. At present the wages of workmen were extremely low, and it was impossible that out of their scanty earnings they could raise, by weekly subscriptions, a fund to support their brethren who might be out of employment. The amount necessary for that could hardly be calculated, but it would certainly be beyond their means. The hon. Member had alluded to the southern counties of England, but he could not be blind to the difference between them and the northern counties. He could not suppose, looking at the situation of the people in the southern counties since 1825, that it would at anytime have been possible for the workmen to club 6s.s.692d.Mr. Cripps
693 only rose to say a word on a subject connected with the town which he represented. The hon. Member stated the quantity of gloves before and subsequent to the change in our commercial policy, when the prohibition to import gloves was removed. The hon. Member had stated that more gloves were made since than before. He wished to know whence he obtained his information. There were statements laid on the Table which informed the House what quantity of gloves was imported or exported, but he did not know how the hon. Member could have ascertained what quantity was made. He wished to be informed how that information was obtained. The hon. Member had stated, that it was fair play to the glove-trade to let in foreign-made gloves. He could understand that it might be expedient, that it might be good policy, but -he could not understand how it was fair play. He could not understand why the glove-trade was to be estimated by the quantities made, and other trades were to be estimated by the price of their produce. If the principles of Free Trade were to be acted on, why were they not extended to
693Mr. Robinson
695694 said, he entertained some doubts as to the utility of the results of appointing the proposed committee. His doubts were as to the advantages of the hon. Member's plans, but he supposed the committee might be a means of obtaining some very useful information, and with that view he should not oppose the Motion. He could not hope that the object of the hon. Member would be accomplished, but he hoped to obtain through the committee some valuable information. In admitting the advantages of Benefit Societies, he had some doubts whether they could be so extended—which was what, he believed, the hon. Member meant—as to meet all the fluctuations in trade. That was an object he was afraid it was not possible to obtain. As far as these societies were
695694The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that though he could not hope to obtain the same advantages from the committee as the hon. Mover, he did not mean to oppose the Motion; but at the same time he looked upon Savings Banks as more likely to be beneficial to the working classes than Benefit Societies. What they could place in the Savings Banks they could at all times look on as their own; it belonged to themselves, and they were encouraged by that consideration to take care of it. He was happy to confirm the statement of the hon. member for the county of York (Mr. Marshall), that the people employed in factories—and there was a general tendency to employ all the manufacturers in factories—were much better off than those not employed in factories. He believed, too, that he might state that the workmen employed in factories were a great deal better off than workmen were thirty or forty years ago. Owing to the great quantity of machinery now employed in our manufactures, the workmen were continually employed, for the necessity of keeping the machinery at work compelled the manufacturer to employ his men. At present he believed too that the workmen were generally employed at full wages. The hon. Gentleman opposite said, that it was impossible that the men in the manufacturing districts could contribute anything to such a fund; but at present he believed the manufacturers were not in so bad a condition as the hon. Member supposed. He had visited Lancashire during the holidays, and had learned, both from observation and information, that wages there had lately risen, and that few persons were out of employment.Sir George Phillips
 said, that the House appeared fond of meddling with what did not concern it, and of neglecting what it ought to perform; it would not grant a committee to inquire into the distress which was complained of in so many petitions; and as the House would not inquire into the truth of the allegations in these petitions, he should look on a committee appointed on this Motion as a mere delusion. It could lead to no good whatever.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 agreed with the petitioner as to the impropriety of the present system. In St. Martin's church-yard, the only place over which he had any control, he had had catacombs dug under ground, and he hoped to see the example followed in other places.Lord Lowther
682 admitted that the suggestion of the hon. Member would have
682Lord Lowther
 seconded the Motion.Lord Killeen
l.s.;d.s. regretted that he was obliged to oppose the Motion. There was no disposition upon his part to create an unequal pressure of taxation in Ireland, but there were peculiar circumstances which compelled him to adopt the course he had proposed; and looking at the general pressure of taxation on the country, he did not see what other he could have pursued. And, taking this tax, as affecting the two portions of the United Kingdom, he found that in Ireland it was only 1l.s.;d.s.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. also supported the Motion, and said, that a tax on Canadian timber, which would be just and proper, and would yield 1,500,000l.Mr. Warburton
 wished to hear no more of the proportion of taxes to be paid by England and Ireland, than to be paid by Yorkshire and Kent. The only consideration for the House was, to raise the necessary Revenue with the least possible inconvenience. He would support the Motion, because, from the smallness of the amount, the repeal of the tax would not be unfair towards England, and it would confer a great benefit on Ireland. The introduction of steam into manufactures had made Coal indispensable in almost all branches of manufacture, and the condition of Ireland could not be improved by becoming a manufacturing country, unless she had free access to the market for Coals. He presumed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have some difficulty in passing his Beer-bill, and therefore he would recommend him to change it to a Coal-bill, abolishing the whole duty on Sea-borne Coal, which should have his hearty support.Mr. Baring
701 was aware that the Coal-tax was very unpopular in Ireland, but the Chancellor of the Exchequer entertained certain projects, with regard to Ireland, which were still more unpopular than the Coal-tax. In the hope that by allowing that right hon. Gentleman to retain the Coal-tax, he would not push his equalizing measures of taxation through
701Lord Castlereagh
704 did not rise to give any opposition whatever to the Motion of the hon. Baronet—on the contrary, he was extremely glad that the hon. Baronet had moved for this Committee. This was a question which, however trifling it might appear, had occupied for a considerable period much of the attention of the department over which he presided, and the only difficulty which appeared opposed to that change which seemed so desirable, consisted in the adjustment of those claims for compensation which individuals filling certain public situations might set up with re-
704The Chancellor of the Exchequer
681 said, that he had to present a Petition respecting the present mode of Interment in the Metropolis. It was from George Frederick Carden, Bar-
681Mr. Spottiswoode
 said, that he concurred in what had been stated in favour of the abolition. He had a Petition to present from the Bankers of Belfast, who expressed similar opinions. They stated that they had a great interest in preventing the crime of forgery, but that in consequence of the severity of the punishment, they were prevented from prosecuting. Thus the law afforded no protection whatever to property.Mr. Brownlow
 expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from the Lord Advocate as to Scotland, and begged leave to take that opportunity of expressing his approbation of the manner in which that learned Lord executed the duties of his office.Sir Charles Forbes
 regretted that he was obliged to oppose the Motion of his hon. friend; but he could not avoid doing so when he observed that it was a Motion j which went to benefit one class or body of the people at the expense of another. If the measure had been more general—if it had been for the repeal of the duty, not in one, but in all parts of the kingdom—it should have had his support; for he considered that policy and expediency, as well as justice, called on them to abolish a duty which the manufacturers along the whole eastern coast of England felt was one that disabled them from a fair competition with the foreigner.Mr. P. Thomson
 supported the Motion. There was no tax the repeal of which would give so much relief to Ireland. It had been promised at the time of the Union to repeal this tax, and that ought now to be done, if it were wished that the Union should be advantageous to both countries. He called on the House to answer this appeal of the Irish people, and show that those were calumniators, who said that the House had no sympathy with the distresses of the Irish.Mr. O'Connell
 supported the prayer of the Petition, and stated, that he had been long of opinion, that the punishment of death should be abolished in all cases of offences unaccompanied by actual violence. He should give his decided support to any measure for the abolition of capital punishments in cases of Forgery.Mr. O'Connell
700 regretted that the Government would not accede to the Motion. The tax could not be supported by argument, and he should bring the general subject forward on a future occa-
700Mr. E. Wodehouse
 said, it would have been better if the noble Lord had removed the burial-place out of the metropolis altogether.Mr. Protheroe
 hoped, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not repeal the tax, he would, at least, exempt from duty all coal used in manufactures.Mr. George Moore
 supported the Motion. The tax was originally intended only to be a war-tax, and as it was most partial and oppressive it ought to be repealed.General Gascoyne
 said, the great object of punishment in cases of Forgery should be the protection of property; but there were hundreds of cases of' Forgery which were not prosecuted, because the punishment was death, which would be prosecuted if the penalty were less: therefore, upon the simple principle of taking the most effectual measures for the protection of property, and not upon any vague idea of humanity, he was a friend to a mitigation of the present punishment. He had in his possession a Petition, signed by 400 individual Bankers, belonging to 200 firms, in which, on the principle of affording further and more efficacious protection to property, they asked for a remission of the punishment of death in cases of Forgery.Mr. F. Buxton
 was deeply interested in the admission of the right hon. Secretary, for he had been exposed to much obloquy for making a similar assertion, and his statement had been flatly contradicted.Mr. Fowell Buxton
 stated, that the late governor of the Mauritius, when the investigation took place, admitted that there had been an importation of Slaves, but he proved, to the satisfaction of all candid men, that the practice was suppressed as soon as he had the power to suppress it. The charge made against him was groundless, and if the committee had continued its labours, he had no doubt that his hon. friend would himself have admitted that.Mr. Irving
679 said, if it were considered desirable, with respect to one branch of forgeries, to mitigate our sanguinary law, he could not see why we should make trial of one portion, and leave the other untouched. The mischief of our laws consisted in the uncertainty of punishment, arising from their unusual severity. He was of opinion, that the punishment of death should not be inflicted except for murder or treason, which latter crime might involve many deaths. The right hon. Gentleman, who had effected so many improvements in the criminal law, ought to carry the principle still further. If evil should arise from a mitigation of the present system, we had the power of reverting
679Mr. Hume
 said, that there ought to be an Act prohibiting all burials in the metropolis for the future. Decency and the health of the inhabitants called for such a measure.Mr. Hume
 said, that the present law was equally impolitic and inhuman; it prevented prosecutions and encouraged the offence. Whenever a motion should be made to do away with capital punishment he should support it.Mr. M. A. Taylor
706l.,1.705 said, he rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill to do away with the present system of Half-pay Apprentices in the Manufacturing Districts. His Motion was founded on the reports of two
706l.,1.705 Mr. Fyler
702, in reply, said, that he disagreed with his hon. friend the member for Dover, as to this being a partial measure for the benefit of one portion of the people; or, if it were so, he could not see that by the people of Ireland being still made to suffer by this tax, the people of Norfolk or Kent would be benefitted. He should
702Mr. Spring Rice
l.,l.;698l.l.697l.,l. presented a Petition from St. Mary's, Dublin, against the Duty on Coals imported into Ireland. The hon. Member then proceeded to say, that in making the proposition which he should submit to the House, he had the satisfaction of knowing that it was a proposition which, though advantageous to Ireland, and meant to be so, would also be a great benefit to England. He considered that the increased consumption of coals which would take place in Ireland if the duties were removed, would be no inconsiderable benefit to the coal districts of England. To Ireland the remission of the duties would be a great relief. He begged leave to remind the House that he had cheerfully voted for those reductions of taxation in England which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed. He rejoiced in those reductions; and he had even voted for the reduction of some taxes, as that on Salt, which it was supposed the interest of Ireland required should be maintained. His proposition, he would also remind hon. Gentlemen, would not deprive the Revenue of any great sum. The amount of revenue raised by the tax on coals in Ireland did not exceed 50,000l.,l.;698l.l.697l.,l.Mr. Spring Rice
 thought the admission of the right hon. Secretary, relative to the importation of Slaves into the Mauritius, of great importance, as that fact had formerly been strenuously denied, and the statements of his hon. friend, the member for Weymouth, were declared to be entirely destitute of foundation.Mr. W. Smith
 supported the Motion to take off what he must call a most inquitous tax upon the poorer classes of the community.Sir C. Cole
 concurred in the opinion that this subject was of importance, and the attention of the Custom-house officers ought to be directed to it. With respect to the illegal importation of Slaves, to which he had alluded, he begged leave to add, that it took place in 1819 and 1821.Sir G. Murray
 replied, that if Java Sugar were so imported into the Mauritius, and re-exported to England, it was done contrary to law, and it could not be done unless there were connivance and criminality on the part of the Custom-house officers at the Mauritius. He was not however aware that any such thing had occurred. A limited quantity of foreign Sugar might he occasionally introduced there by a vessel having sustained damage at sea, when she might be allowed to land part of her cargo, and dispose of it to pay the expenses of her repairs; but if more than that were introduced, it must be effected by fraud. The increased quantity of Sugar imported into this country was to be accounted for by the increased cultivation of sugar-cane in the island. The Mauritius having been placed on the same footing in our markets as the West-India islands, the planters had given up the cultivation of Coffee for the cultivation of Sugar. The great advantages also accruing from that cultivation had at one period led to the importation into the Mauritius of persons who were then Slaves, or were afterwards enslaved, in violation of the law, and that importation had extended the cultivation of Sugar.Sir George Murray
 said, that it was the opinion of merchants, bankers, and others most interested, that the law did not afford protection to the banker and commercial man,—because the severity of it prevented prosecutions. For this reason, if for no other, the severity of the law ought to be mitigated.Mr. Robinson
 rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the duties, Salaries, and Emoluments, of Hackney-coach Commissioners, and the present state of public carriages in the Metropolis. The hon. Baronet prefaced his Motion by stating the inconvenience which arose from the present system, and the necessity which existed for some change for the public advantage: he conceived that that necessity must be apparent to every person who had had an opportunity of observing the present state of things. By the appointment of a Select Committee to investigate the subject, a fair opportunity would be afforded to all parties interested to state their case. Should a change be determined upon with regard to the present system, a considerable change, he was sure, would be recommended by the committee: it would be open to any individuals to prefer claims for compensation; but, if it should appear that they had not done their duty, he did not conceive that they could be entitled to any compensation. The hon. Baronet concluded by moving—"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Duties, Salaries, and Emoluments of the Commissioners for the regulation of Hackney-coaches within the Bills of Mortality, and into the state of the public Carriages within the said Bills, and to report the evidence, and their opinion thereon, to the House; and also to inquire into the state of the Law affecting the same, and to report their opinion thereon to the House."Sir J. Wrottesley
 believed the fact to be well known to those who had inquired into the matter, that it generally happened that individuals going out of the country under sentence of transportation, were in a short time better off than they would have been had they remained at home. If transportation were the punishment finally fixed upon in cases of Forgery, he trusted it would be rendered a punishment to be dreaded. Those who committed Forgery were ordinarily of a higher rank than the majority of other offenders: they were persons sensible to the pleasures of society, and in the habit of enjoying amusements: and the House ought to take away from them those pleasures and amusements which formed their enjoyment, and the extravagant use of which probably led to their crimes. He could not dissent from the observation that doubts might be fairly entertained, whether, in a great commercial country like this, the punishment of death in cases of Forgery could be safely done away with. At the same time he admitted the great disinclination which every man who was a sufferer by Forgery felt at prosecuting a fellow-creature for a crime, the punishment of which might be death; and that, he also admitted, made the subject difficult of decision.Sir M. W. Ridley
677 admitted, that transportation was a most unsatisfactory punishment in cases of Forgery, as not carrying with it, to the persons likely to commit that offence, those terrifying consequences which a punishment intended to prevent a crime of such magnitude should. Certainly the reluctance at present felt to prosecute would be removed if the punish-
677Sir J. Newport
 supported the Motion most cordially. He had presented several petitions in favour of the total repeal of the duty, and he would now support its partial abolition. If it were true that manufactories could not be established in parts of the kingdom distant from those where the Coal was obtained, they at least ought not to add a legislative disadvantage where there were but few natural advantages for their establishment. He must confess his astonishment at what he had heard from the noble Lord, the member for Yorkshire, who seemed to-night to have appeared as the advocate of restrictions on trade, because they were in favour of Yorkshire, though they operated against Devonshire, and all the Southern parts of the country. He should vote with pleasure for the Motion, especially as it went to the relief of Ireland, and as it was, by the confession of his right hon. friend opposite, the commencement of the operation of a principle, which he trusted would soon be extended to the repeal of the whole tax.Sir T. D. Acland
 thought, that Forgery was an offence which might be suppressed more effectually than at present, by what we were in the habit of considering inferior punishments,—transportation or solitary confinement for any great length of time. If so, the purposes of humanity would be attained, and crime checked. His hon. relative was mistaken in his opinion of the nature of transportation, which, however, he believed to have been formerly what was described. Transportation was then regarded by the lower classes as a change from misery to comparative enjoyment; but now the case was different: convicts were put to hard labour, and their condition was rendered anything rather than too comfortable. He believed that nine persons out of ten who committed. Forgery escaped through the feelings of the sufferers, and their reluctance to enforce a severe law.Sir T. Baring
 said, that this was an English question, because it was an Irish question, for the interests of the two countries were the same. The system of agriculture now employed in Ireland was to create large farms, by which the small agriculturists were driven from the country into the town, where they were now suffering severely from want of employment. If this tax were repealed, though possibly no new manufactures could be established, yet the increase of those which had been long in existence would be materially promoted. He believed that as far as the Revenue was concerned, the abolition of the tax might safely take place, and as that would be very much for the benefit of the consumer, he should therefore now vote even for its partial reduction.Lord Althorp
 differed, with the greatest regret, from the hon. member for Callington, and could not but think that, however the price of Coals might be diminished to the consumer, it could never be so much reduced as to enable people to establish manufactories in other parts of the kingdom than those which were at a moderate distance from the place where the Coal was obtained. He could not but view this question differently from some of the hon. Members, for, in his opinion, a tax on Sea-borne-Coals was a tax on an article of commerce; but a tax imposed on Coals at the pit's mouth would be a tax on a necessary of life, and on one which the people in the Coal districts had immemorially enjoyed at a very moderate price. Any person acquainted with the manufacturing districts, must see at once how heavily such a tax would fall on the manufacturers. The tax on Sea-borne-Coals did not amount to more than one-eighth or one-ninth of the price of the article, and the repeal of that tax would not so much benefit the people as would the reduction of some other taxes, which, though they hardly produced more to the Revenue, were more oppressive in their operation upon the people.Lord Milton
 said, that these manufacturers were already reduced to the lowest ebb of distress, and any attempt to impose additional burthens on them, would infallibly ruin them. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would desist from such a project.Mr. Jephson
 said, he was unwilling to stop the course of public business; and had accordingly a proposition to make to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He felt it his imperative duty to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice: he was most anxious to do so; but still he was unwilling to bring it forward as an Amendment upon the Motion of the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply. It was his undoubted right to introduce the question in this manner; but he considered it a right which should be cautiously and sparingly exercised—one, in short, which should only be asserted upon great and important occasions. He was accordingly anxious to avoid making his Motion as an Amendment, and, with the consent of the hon. member for Aberdeen, who had been good enough to allow him precedence, he would propose to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the House should go into the Committee of Supply, on the understanding that no vote should be proposed after ten o'clock, but that he should be then allowed to bring forward his Motion.Sir J. Graham
 felt great difficulty in replying to the hon. Baronet's proposition. He gave him credit for not wishing unnecessarily to obstruct the public business; but at the same time he allowed him less free will in the matter than was altogether satisfactory, since he had only the choice of going into Committee for four hours or not going into it at all.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
710 was willing to give the hon. Baronet's Motion precedence; but he wished to state that he did not concur with him in the opinion that the right of moving such questions as amendments to a motion for going into a Committee of Supply was one that ought to be sparingly used. He thought it was the legitimate course of the House that motions concerning the people's grievances should be
710Mr. Hume
 said, it was a perfectly plain-sailing question, and he wondered that his right hon. friend should think of opposing the hon. Baronet's proposition.Sir J. Yorke
 said, he intended to grant the hon. Baronet's wish, with a very slight difference of form, which was perhaps scarcely worth discussing.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, he was a Privy Councillor, and could not see why the Motion should be opposed.Sir J. Newport
quoadquoad said, his objection to the Motion was, that it applied to a class: he had nothing to oppose to a motion for the total amount of salaries, or to the salaries enjoyed by particular persons, as public officers. He objected to the Return being made quoadquoadThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l. said, that the expenses of this department had doubled since 1797. The establishment at the office cost 27,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
711 justified the expenditure in consequence of our being
711Mr. George Dawson
l.l.l. said, if the Government would leave the colonies more to them-selves,—if they would leave them more free in their actions, and not keep them in leading-strings, as they did, this expense might be spared. In 1796, the whole expense of this department was 9,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
712 said, there was no person acquainted with the business of the Colonial-office, but must admit that the services of Mr. Stephen, the standing counsel, were invaluable. While he was on his legs, he would call the attention of the House and the Government to the alteration which had been made in the military department of the Home-office. By the extensive reduction of the yeomanry and the militia, nothing could be more certain than that the military duty of the Home-office had been considerably lessened. He might be told that the business of the criminal branch had increased. He admitted that it had increased; but, taking the two branches together, he thought that there could be, and ought to be, effected, a reduction in the expense of that office. He would call the attention of the House to another office connected with the Home Department, in which a saving might be made. The charge was not, indeed, a very great one; but where-ever an expense was incurred, without producing any benefit to the public, that
712Mr. S. Rice
 was sure, that the subject could not be in better hands than those of his hon. friend; for his own part, he had quite enough to do already; but if his hon. friend would move for the repeal of the Alien Act, he would vote with him. He would take that opportunity of stating, that it was most preposterous that several of the clerks in the Home Department not only received salaries for their services in the office, but derived further emoluments as agents for different colonies.Mr. Hume
 did not, generally speaking, advocate the propriety of appointing clerks as agents to colonies. It was a practice that ought not, perhaps, in all cases, to be pursued; but in these particular instances it was necessary. The business was well done, and the expense was not greater to the colonies than if it were performed by other parties.Sir G. Murray
713l.l. adverted to the danger of allowing balances to accumulate in the hands of those agents, and instanced the case of Mr. Chinnery, who, at the very time that Parliament was voting large sums of money to meet Bills of Exchange that were drawn on account of New South Wales, had very considerable funds in his hands. He was ultimately a defaulter to the amount of 18,000713l.l.Sir J. Newport
 stated, that care had been taken to provide against such an occurrence in future.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not approve of insinuations being thrown out with respect to individuals who were not present. Allusion had been made to Mr. Stephen, whom he knew to be as conscientious and trustworthy an officer as any under the Crown.Mr. W. Smith
 said, the hon. Member laboured under an error. His hon. friend never threw out any reflection whatever on Mr. Stephen. He only said—and he (Colonel Davies) agreed with him—that the salary for standing counsel ought to be dispensed with. He believed that Mr. Stephen did a great deal of duty, but he also believed that that duty ought to be done by others.Colonel Davies
 wished it to be understood that he had not the least idea of making any insinuation with respect to Mr. Stephen. He objected to the fact of giving a salary to a standing counsel, and of allowing the clerks in public offices, to receive salaries as agents for the colonies.Mr. Hume
 said, the vote in the hands of the Chairman was to defray the Salaries of the Secretary, Under-secretary, and Clerks of the Colonial-office. It had nothing to do with the payments of those clerks as agents. If, therefore, the hon. Member objected to their receiving separate allowances, it would be better to make a separate motion when those grants were called for. The House was not then called on to vote any of those sums.Mr. George Dawson
l. said, he should move that this vote be reduced by 4,000l.Mr. O'Connell
l..—You may as well move that the grant be reduced by 10,000l.Mr. Hume
l. then moved, that the vote be reduced to the extent of 10,000l.Mr. O'Connell
 assured the hon. and learned Member that great inconvenience might arise to the public service from the proposed diminution of the vote, as Government possessed no means of making up the deficiency if the vote should prove too small to cover the expenditure. If the grant exceeded the outlay, of course the balance should be refunded. The expenses in question were paid in ready money; there was no credit in that branch of the public service, and any deficiency would be inconvenient. The hon. and learned Member must himself perceive, that if he would only put a moderate share of confidence in the Foreign Department, there would be no necessity for pressing his amendment.Mr. George Dawson
 said, he was just as much indisposed to put confidence in Government on a point of expenditure as any genuine Representative of the people ought to be. The people had sent him to that House, and no Representative of their's ought to repose confidence in any Ministers when the expenditure of the public money was concerned. However, he had no inclination to press his Motion if it were the wish of the Committee that it should be withdrawn.Mr. O'Connell
 inquired what the Colonies wanted with Messengers?Mr. Hume
715l.l.l.l. explained, that more than half the amount of the grant (namely, a sum of 5,500715l.l.l.l.Sir G. Murray
 said, he was quite willing to consent to the expense of making out returns, provided they were properly prepared; but the misfortune was, that he never could get the returns he moved for.Mr. Hume
716l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, he had no doubt that these Gentlemen had discharged their duty with great benefit to the public. He was aware that they had made several valuable reports, and many useful suggestions, with respect to the subjects of their inquiry, particularly as related to certain departments in Ireland; but it should be recollected at what an expense these objects had been effected. The first payment to the Commissioners took place in 1823, and amounted to 6,255716l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Colonel Davies
 said, the annual saving effected by the Commissioners in the collection and management of the public income considerably exceeded the aggregate amount of the payments made on account of their services. The labours of the Commissioners had now closed, and this was the last vote which the House would be called upon to grant them; but although Parliament would hear no more of the Commissioners of Revenue Inquiry, in the matter of voting money to them, it would have frequent opportunities to bear in mind the benefit derived from their labours.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, what was the subject of the Commissioners' inquiry in the present year?Mr. Hume
 said, they would submit another report on the state of the Post-office.Mr. Dawson
 was aware of the general importance of the labours of the Commissioners, but their proceedings with regard to the Post-office had met anything rather than his approbation. What he wished was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would try and effect a complete revision of the laws relating to the Post-office. Although the general feeling was, that the Post-office was the best conducted department in England, he entertained a very different opinion on the subject.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.720719l.718717 wished to make a few observations relative to this vote. He was of opinion that if we assented to it, we should continue to sanction the recorded follies and acknowledged absurdities of an antiquated system. The Exchequer was divided into seven different departments; the Tellers' department, the department of the Pells, the Auditor's office, the Tally court, and three others, viz. the Pipe-office, the department of the King's Remembrancer, and that of the Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer. He should take the Pipe department which had seven subsidiary absurdities: among these were the Clerk of the Nichils, the Clerk of the Estreats, the Cursitor Baron, and the Foreign Apposer;
l.l.l.l.l.l.720719l.718717Mr. R. Gordon
l.d.s.l.l.l.721 complained that the hon. Member should have delivered such a speech on the present occasion,
l.d.s.l.l.l.721Mr. George Dawson
 thought, his hon. friend (Mr. Gordon) had taken a very proper opportunity of bringing forward the constitution of the Court of Exchequer. For his own part, he felt great disappointment in finding that no change had been made in the system of keeping the public accounts. This was a matter for which the Ministers were responsible; and the more so, because it was agreed in the Finance Committee that the system should be changed without delay. With respect to the charge for Messengers, his hon. friend had very properly called the attention of the Committee to the fact, that instead of being brought forward as one item, it was scattered over various parts of the Estimates. He must also add, that taking into consideration the sums charged for Messengers in other places, it did appear to him most exorbitant.Lord Althorp
 said, that so many difficulties had occurred in attempting to carry the recommendations of the Finance Committee, as to the mode of keeping accounts, into effect, that it had not been possible to accomplish its wishes; it might, however, be satisfactory to the House to know, that they would be complied with as far as possible, and that, in the mean time, every care was taken to prevent every species of extravagance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
722 said, that as this sum was asked to pay the salaries of certain officers of the Court of Exchequer, he could not understand what the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. G. Dawson) meant by saying it had nothing to do with that Court. For ten years past he had complained of the constitution of that Court, and though every Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised, every year, that the system
722Mr. Hume
 said, that a change in the system was still in contemplation, and would be carried into effect as soon as possible.Mr. Herries
 said, that he should not divide the Committee. He was content with having called attention to the subject; but he must say, that he was much susprised that even the recommendations of the Treasury Commissioners had not been carried into effect. It was six years since the report was made.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that after what they had heard of the necessity and importance of Messengers, he begged to ask one question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Was it true that a Messenger had been sent to the Duke of Buccleuch, to ask him to come up and second the Address?Mr. Hume
 said, he really could not carry in his recollection each individual service performed by the Messengers. He could not tell whether a Messenger had been sent to the Duke of Buccleuch or not.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had learned, upon very good authority, that a Messenger had been sent on this errand to the Duke of Buccleuch.Mr. Hume
 complained of the expense of Foreign Messengers. There was a Messenger sent every week to Paris. This person travelled post with four horses, and his expenses were treble what they ought to be. Why could not a Government Messenger travel, like the commercial couriers, on horseback? But the worst of it was, that this Messenger's real employment was smuggling. The Messenger was employed in bringing over gowns, and gloves, and shoes; and his bag was full, not of despatches, but of smuggled goods.Mr. Poulett Thomson
l. said, that while they had such an expensive bankruptcy establishment, he did not see why they should be called upon to pay such a sum as this for the support of an Insolvent Debtors' Court. In a work lately published by a Commissioner of Bankrupts, the expense of the Bankruptcy Establishment was estimated at 250,000l.Mr. Warburton
 said, it would be impossible that the business of the two Courts could be managed by the same set of commissioners. If the Bankrupt Court were to be made permanent, it would entail a vast expense on the country, and the commissioners could not obtain constant employment. The employments of the two Courts were quite different. The Bankrupt Commissioners had to decide upon important points of law, and to distribute a great deal of property; whereas the commissioners of the Insolvent Court had no points of law to decide, and no property to distribute. The legal knowledge necessary in Commissioners of Bankrupts, and practical acquaintance with the business they had to do, would compel the country to give them large salaries if permanently employed, and would create an immense expense.The Solicitor General
724 admitted, that the constitution of the two Courts was different, and that the Bankrupt Courts had to decide important questions in law and equity, which would require considerable legal experience; but in looking at the selection made of Commissioners of Bankrupts in a country with which he was acquainted, it would not be found that these acquirements were exactly the qualifications for which they were chosen. Good political or family connexions, and little or no experience, seemed, in many instances, to have been made the grounds of choice. They were generally practising barristers, and it was not uncommon to obtain by a fee, substituting feigned names, their opinion on cases to be afterwards brought before them as commissioners. Altogether, the abuses under the present system were horrible, and he trusted that they might be remedied, If
724Mr. O'Connell
 said, that in objecting to the present system he spoke not his own opinions, but those of the most eminent barristers, who recommended that a total change should be made in the constitution of the Bankrupt Court.Mr. Warburton
 thought, that if the Insolvent Debtors' Court had neither to decide important points of law, nor to distribute any considerable property, means ought to be taken to reduce the expense at which it was maintained. He was also of opinion, that the number of Commissioners of Bankrupts might be reduced one-half.Sir M. W. Ridley
s.s.s. said, that there was not a mercantile man in London, who would not accept 5s.s.s.Mr. P. Thomson
 said, that although the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) did not exaggerate the importance of the Commissioners of Bankrupts, yet he seemed to undervalue that of the Insolvent Debtors' Court. He thought that the value of the Court ought to be estimated, not merely by the amount of money distributed by it, but by the compositions of which it was the cause. The present system was bad, as it held out temptations to insolvents to spend their money in prison, and left nothing to distribute.Lord Althorp
 thought, the business of the Court would be much better discharged, if the commissioners had permanent salaries, and were men of a certain standing at the bar. He did not think it beneficial that the Judges in that Court should be practitioners in Chancery, for they gave up more time to seek profit in their profession than to discharge their duties as commissioners.Mr. Batley
 complained of the enormous amount of the fees, and trusted that this branch of the law would be soon revised.Mr. Sykes
725 said, that both barristers and solicitors felt that a great alteration ought to be made in the law. To merchants and traders it was ruinous and
725Mr. J. Wood
The hon. and learned Gentleman shook his head.l. said, that the Bankrupt Law was one of the greatest nuisances with which the country was afflicted, and yet the hon. and learned Solicitor General came forward to eulogise the Bankrupt Court. The evil mentioned by the hon. member for Clare was not confined to Ireland, for here also Commissioners of Bankrupts practised as pleaders in other Courts. The Attorney General, on a former occasion, said, that law was cheap in England, compared with other countries. What would he say to the fact of the Bankrupt Court having cost 250,000The hon. and learned Gentleman shook his head.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, had pronounced no eulogy upon the Bankrupt Commissioners, but merely said that the duties of that Court, and of the Insolvent Debtors' Court, were so dissimilar, that they could not be performed by one set of commissioners.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that whatever accusation might be made against him by the hon. Gentleman, he doubted whether any of the responsibility attached to his office: he had no more control over the Commissioners of Bankrupts than the hon. Gentleman himself. He did not intend to retract anything he had said; he never meant to eulogise that Court: all that he had done was, to show that one set of commissioners could not perform the duties of both Courts.The Solicitor General
l. said, he did not object to the individuals who were the Commissioners of Bankrupts, but he objected to the office, and the number of those commissioners. There were seventy-two of them, some of whom were both commissioners and advocates, and the most skilful of them were frequently employed to protect, before other commissioners, the greatest scoundrels. He had known an instance in which one of these commissioners gave an opinion, that an individual was subject to the Bankrupt Laws, and that very commissioner afterwards argued, before other commissioners, that the individual was not subject to the Bankrupt Laws, and defeated him (Alderman Waithman), by which he lost 1,000l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
s.s.727 said, he knew no difference between an insolvent and a bankrupt, except that which the law made. They were both persons who could not pay
s.s.727Mr. D. W. Harvey
728 said, that the whole question of the Bankrupt and Insolvent Debtors' Laws was far too important to be discussed on that occasion. He did not know a subject in which the whole community was more interested than these laws, the whole of which needed revision. Let any of the Members go to Guildhall, and there they would see three or four commissions working at the same time; three or four barristers examining as many witnesses, a great number of attornies consulting a number of clients, and altogether such a scene of confusion as never was seen in any other court of justice. It was not a question of a single debtor, or a single creditor, but a question that involved the welfare of the whole mercantile community. The interference of the Government to provide a remedy for this state of the law was necessary. At present no man who could avoid it went before the Commissioners of Bankrupts—he took what he could get from his debtor; but when he did go, he never left the Court without being affronted and ashamed at the abominable conduct of the commissioners. The Insolvent Debtors' Acts were worse, if that were possible, than the Bankrupt Laws. The dividend of the debtors liberated under them was, he believed, nothing. The attorneys and clerks of the Court were well paid, and they throve on the general distress, but the clients got nothing. Those persons
728Mr. Bright
 was of opinion, that the Judges of the Bankrupt Court ought to be permanent, and ought not to be allowed to practise as barristers.Mr. Monck
 complained that the Acts regulating the Superannuation Allowances were very unjust in their operation. They gave a large portion of their income, as a superannuation, to those who had large incomes, and only a small portion to those who had small incomes. He considered that the Acts ought to be amended.Mr. Lennard
 expressed his concurrence in these views. The regulation pressed hard on those who had small in-comes, and was liberal to those who were amply provided.Sir John Newport
729 said, that he would not enter into the subject, as a committee had been appointed to inquire into it. There was, however, a point connected with that committee, to which he wished to advert. It had been some time appointed, at the
729Lord Althorp
 said, the delay in the meeting of the committee was attributable to the circumstance of most of the Gentlemen on it being actively engaged on other committees. As soon as he could get an adequate number of members together, he should be most happy to meet them, and submit the views of his Majesty's Government on the subject to the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, measures had been taken to prevent all persons appointed to public situations, subsequent to last July, from having any claim on the public for Superannuation Allowances.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 called the attention of the Committee to the provision included in this vote for retired stamp-masters, and other officers of the Linen Boards of Scotland and Ireland. The Boards were so useless, that the Linen Board of Scotland did not know what to do with the money confided to its care for the encouragement of the linen manufacture; and it had actually been obliged to advertise, in order to find means how to employ it. He thought, therefore, that it was high time to put an end to these Boards, and all their dependents and charges for superannuations.Mr. Maberly
 said, that the Superannuation Allowances of all kinds had been so amply discussed last year, and a committee had been appointed to investigate them this Session, that he could not think that it was necessary to defend the vote he proposed.Mr. George Dawson
 thought it strange that the House should continue to vote a sum for the encouragement of arts and manufactures in Scotland, and that, in the absence of any object to which it could be applied, the trustees should write begging letters, soliciting suggestions for the employment of the money. He thought the proper course would be, to recal the grant, now that it was found to be unnecessary.Mr. Maberly
730 observed, that the grant was made originally to encourage the growth of flax in Scotland, but that it
730Mr. H. Drummond
l. observed, that the doctrine laid down by the hon. Gentleman was inadmissible. The money voted for a specific purpose was public money, and necessarily reverted to the public when it was not applied to the purpose for which it was given. Connected with this question he wished to ask, whether the office of Secretary, with a salary of 600l.Mr. Hume
 maintained, that the fund was applicable to Scotland alone. It had been voted for the improvement of that country at the time of the Union, as an equivalent for the introduction of the Excise and Customs of England. With respect to the question put by the hon. Gentleman, he was able to state, that another Secretary had been appointed, but he was to do the duty without a salary.The Lord Advocate
 expressed his surprise, that the noble and learned Lord should have appealed for a sanction of the grant. He would ask the noble and learned Lord, whether the Union called upon Parliament to expend so much money as had been expended upon Scotch roads and Scotch bridges—whether it called upon them to lay out a million of money upon the Caledonian Canal? He should be very willing to strike a balance with the noble and learned Lord.Mr. Hume
 was of opinion, that the Trustees had no right to appropriate the money, and said, that the manner in which superannuations were allowed, and in which the Secretary had been appointed, were as gross jobs as ever were known.Mr. Maberly
731l.l. condemned the principle of superannuations altogether; and as an instance of the abuse to which it was liable, quoted the case of a young man named Anstey, 27 years of age, who, on the abolition of an office, the salary of which was 120731l.l.Mr. Hume
 opposed this grant, upon the ground that the charity was misconducted.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 defended the charity.Mr. Alderman Atkins
 reminded Ministers of the pledge given to his hon. friend (Sir J. Graham), and suggested that the vote should be withdrawn for the present.Lord Howick
745744 said, if I rose, Sir, to address the House under the feeling that I was about to propose anything to obstruct the inquiry which the hon. Baronet is desirous of instituting; if I rose to interpose any obstacle to a plan of general reduction of expenditure or abolition of sinecures—for the better regulation of the half or full pay—or if I intended to deny the hon. Baronet the means of bringing before the House this particular question, I might present myself to your notice with feelings of greater diffidence than I do at present. But, Sir, I have not, and the hon. Baronet knows I have not, any such intention. I am prepared to grant him a Return, or more than one return, which would fully satisfy him, and which will more distinctly and fully give him the means of attaining the object which he desires. Let me, Sir, now state the causes of the difference of opinion between us. The hon. Baronet, with that courtesy which distinguishes him, and which is most conducive to the easy and convenient transaction of public business, stated to me the motion he was about to make, and asked me whether I had any objection to it. I told him that I did not object to give the information, but that I objected to the particular form in which he demanded it. I told him that there were Returns already ordered, and likely soon to be upon the Table of the House, which appeared to me sufficient to answer the purpose he required. The hon. Baronet said, that these Returns contained a large mass of information, from which it would be difficult to collect the particular instances he adverted to. I met this objection by telling him that I should most readily concur in granting Returns of any limited number of offices, the amount of the salaries paid, and also that there was no member of the Government, whose emoluments he wished to ascertain, the account of which should not be laid distinctly and clearly on the Table of the House. Is there, then, in this, Sir, any evidence of a disposition to conceal from him, or from Parliament, the amount of the emoluments he says he wishes to discover, and which he is anxious to reduce? Is there in that any wish to withdraw from observation those emoluments, so as to deprive him of the means of applying that priming-knife which he deems these emo-
745744The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: I exclude them.Sir J. Graham
: There is no such exclusion in the Motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: The Motion is confined to members of the Privy Council holding offices either Civil or Military, under neither of which heads, at least, as I conceive, can these most rev. Prelates be included.Sir J. Graham
l.750Sir James Graham bowed in acceptance of the apology.749748mistake.747Sir J. Graham intimated Unit this was a746 continued: The hon. Baronet knows that the first Judges in the land are included in his Motion. They have received their salaries from Parliament; yet still they are brought in for their share of the obloquy cast upon the Privy Council by this Motion; and their emoluments serve to swell the list which the hon. Baronet has so circumstantially enumerated. In the next place, it includes the men who are receiving rewards for services performed for this country—men whose names are recorded in the page of our history, and the recollection of whose services will descend to our latest posterity; and yet these men, too, are, by this Motion, held forth as undeserving of public emoluments; and they,
l.750Sir James Graham bowed in acceptance of the apology.749748mistake.747Sir J. Graham intimated Unit this was a746The Chancellor of the Exchequer
751ad invidiam accused the Chancellor of the Exchequer of wishing to defeat the object of the Motion by the Amendment. He maintained that the House of Commons had not only a peculiar right, but an imperative duty, to inquire into the salaries and emoluments of the Privy Council—a body recognised by the Constitution, and responsible to Parliament. The object of the Motion, he contended, was to ascertain whether the Ministers had meted the same measure of justice to persons in high stations that they had meted to individuals in subordinate capacities. It was not directed 751ad invidiamLord Milton
l.l.752l.l.l.l. said, I did not rise before, because I took it for granted that the hon. Baronet meant to bring forward all the cases in a distinct shape when he had obtained the information he seeks by his Motion: as, however, the noble Lord has thought proper to call upon me, and to call upon me in no very delicate terms—in a manner in which I should be extremely sorry to address myself to his Lordship—the House will forgive me if I obtrude myself on its notice in order to state the nature and amount of my emoluments. Those emoluments will appear in the Return when it is laid upon the Table. I am by no means ashamed of them, because I have endeavoured to earn them by a conscientious discharge of the duties attached to my office. The situation of a Sea-Lord of the Admiralty, it is well known to most hon. Members, though, perhaps, not to the noble Lord, has always been considered worth 1,500l.l.752l.l.l.l.Sir G. Cockburn
753 explained the difference between the Motion of his hon. friend (Sir J. Graham), and the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Motion required a statement of the Emoluments of all the members of the Privy Council: the Amendment went no further than to give a return of the Emoluments of Public Officers. There might be many Privy Councillors who received public money, but were not public officers, and thus only half the information desired would be supplied, and it would not show the extent of the influence of the Crown in the Privy
753Mr. Hume
 complimented the hon. Baronet on the tone and temper of his speech, which did him the highest honour. He rose principally to state, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer could have no possible reason for concealing what was required, if all the Privy Councillors receiving emoluments could make out as good a case as his right hon. and gallant friend (Sir G. Cockburn). He could perfectly understand why the House should wish to possess the returns moved for, and it had a right to know that the salaries paid out of the pockets of the people were earned. He agreed with the hon. member for Aberdeen, that the Amendment would only give half or two-thirds of what was wanted, and he should therefore sup- port the original Motion. A libel had gone forth generally, that all the taxes levied upon the people were lavished upon the aristocracy, and it would be highly advantageous that the notion should be satisfactorily contradicted.Sir J. Yorke
 said, that he was perfectly ready to amend his Amendment by expunging the words "public officers" and substituting "all persons."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 apprehended, that the return, as required by the Amendment, would be so voluminous as to occasion a delay of two or three months, when the House would have been dismissed for the Session. He wished to know when it was likely that it would be laid upon the Table?.Mr. E. Davenport
 replied, that an abstract could be speedily made from documents already prepared.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it justice to Mr. Browne, a most deserving individual in the department of the War-office, to mention, that he had served the public for five- and-forty years, and that all the emoluments he now received, as a supposed pluralist, had been allowed to him while he was private secretary to General Fitzpatrick: his whole salary, from whatever quarter derived, had been assigned to him by a Minute of Treasury of the year 1806.Sir H. Hardinge
754 observed, that the importance of the Motion had been raised in his eyes by the promulgated intention of Government to resist it; it looked as if there was something to be concealed.
754Lord Althorp
755 would not trespass upon the time of the House for more than a few minutes. He rose to state, that, in his opinion, the information to be gained by the Amendment would not be equal to that which was asked by the Motion. He entreated the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give way upon this point, and he would tell him upon what ground. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the production of the information would expose individuals to public obloquy. Now, if the hon. Baronet's statement went forth to the world, as go forth it must, without means being afforded of correcting that statement by the production of the correct returns, the Privy Council would indeed be held up to public obloquy. It would be said out of doors that the Privy Council, as a body, received in the whole so much of the money of the nation, and that certain members of that body, who were also Members of the House of Commons, received; so much out of the taxes raised from the people. All this might expose the parties to unmerited obloquy, and this obloquy would best be removed by the publication of authentic information on the subject. There could be no obloquy in receiving a just reward for services performed, and it became the character of the Privy Council to avow that there was no mystery, and no necessity for concealment upon the subject. As an individual member of that body he had no objection to any disclosure—he was not ashamed of his emoluments—but without the alteration
755Mr. Huskisson
 explained. He had not intended to state that the Motion would have the effect of throwing obloquy in any direction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the Motion. He stated, that it was the understanding of the House, that the Superannuation bill had been withdrawn for the Session only, but the right hon. Gentleman had not again brought it forward.Lord Howick
 hoped, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would not press the question to a division. It was a general impression amongst the public at large, in which he participated, that many of the highest class of the public officers were much more largely paid than officers of a lower class, whose duties were more laborious. He wished, then, that the Return might be agreed to as a means of removing that error, and he had no doubt that it would be productive of that effect.Mr. Portman
 was understood to say, that he would vote against the Motion of the hon. Baronet, for he thought that the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman gave all that the hon. Baronet could desire. Thinking that the purposes of the Motion were fully answered, he saw no reason why it need be further pressed. At the same time he thought it due to the hon. Baronet to say, that he was entitled to the thanks of the country.Mr. W. Smith
757, in reply, said, that he heard what had fallen from the last speaker with surprise and regret. That hon. Member had sat in that House thirty years, had been the companion of Fox and of the old Whigs, and it was with sorrow and disappointment that he viewed that hon. Member departing from the general tenour of his past life. On a great question of that nature—a great constitutional question, wherein the House of Commons called upon a certain class of the public servants, with their hands in the public purse, to state their own emoluments—it was, he repeated, cause of sorrow and disappointment to him, that an old Member of the old Whig opposition should turn upon a young Member of the new Whig opposition, who at an humble distance, and with a slow pace was endeavouring to follow and to imitate the great example which those brilliant characters had held out to him. It was lamentable that the hon. member for Norwich should throw the weight of his vote into the scale against such a Motion as that then before the House. What he complained of in the Ministers was, that they gave too much—more than he required. He asked for one thing and they gave him another. He asked for a list of about 175, and they gave him a list of 1,500 or 2,000. He asked, as it were, for a glass of wine, and they gave him a glass of wine, certainly, but diluted with a bottle of water. His Motion referred to the great Officers of State, and his object was to ascertain what their emoluments were, in such a manner as that they should stand out clearly and distinctly apart from any other class of the public servants. The Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman included them with many others, and would be useless for the purposes he had in view. Suppose he were trustee of an estate, and that he demanded from the steward or agent of that estate a return of a certain class of the upper servants of the establishment, and that, instead of complying with his requisition, the steward should give him a list of the whole establishment, agricultural labourers, grooms, lacqueys, and all, would not such a proceeding fill the mind of the trustee with suspicion? He had been charged with being factious, but he would tell some of those who made that charge, that he had learned a pretty lesson in that way from certain Ex-ministers, not above three years ago; on that memorable oe-
757Sir James Graham
 said, that the hon. Baronet ought to have been the last man in that House to have brought forward such a motion—a motion of that vexatious and agitating kind. He said, but a very short time since, that between him and his Majesty's Government there was but one question on which a difference could arise, and that, he believed, was the currency.General Grosvenor
 said, that at the commencement of the Session his Majesty's Ministers gave certain pledges, and upon those pledges, and upon the faith of their being redeemed, he professed his willingness to give them his support, with the single exception, he believed, of the currency; but they had departed from much of what they had led the House to expect, and accordingly, the points of difference between them and him were increased. He had only to add, that he believed the gallant General had taken the glass of wine without having diluted it with the bottle of water.Sir James Graham
708s.s. in presenting a Petition from an industrious and meritorious class of his constituents, the Gold and Silver Operatives of the city of Dublin, observed, that they had seen with dismay the proposal assimilation of duties in their trade with those at present existing: in England, and they prayed that this House would pause before it sanctioned such assimilation. He could not help saying that the case of the petitioners was one of peculiar hardship, and entitled to the serious attention of the House. He believed that, of all the classes of Dublin artisans who had suffered so severely by the Act of Union, there was none on whom that measure pressed so intensely as the petitioners. They were a class whose industry could look for demand solely from those who were comparatively opulent, and the withdrawal from the metropolis of most of the nobility of Ireland, and a large proportion of the gentry, had reduced their calling to a slate of continued struggle and progressive decline. In this condition he would call the attention of the House to the proposed enormous increase of taxation on their industry by the proposed assimilation of duties on the manufacture of gold plate; that proposed increase was at no less a rate than 1,600 per cent on the present duty, the latter being but 1708s.s.Mr. Moore
l.l.709l. presented a Petition from three individuals whose names and character need but be named to be known as amongst the highest in the commercial world. The Petition was for the abolition of the punishment of death for the Forgery. The first name to the Petition was that of Mr. Rothschild, the greatest merchant in the world, and one through whose hands more Bills of Exchange passed than through those of any twenty firms in London. The second was that of the firm of Overend, Gurney, and Co., through whose hands bills of Exchange to the amount of 30,000,000l.l.709l.Mr. John Smith
 thought the case of the petitioners very hard, and that they were deserving of the most favourable consideration. As the Legislature had deprived them of much of their trade, it should rather seek to lighten than increase their taxation.Lord Morpeth
 presented a Petition from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Livery of London, in Common Hall assembled, complaining of Distress, and praying for a reduction of the Public Expenditure, and a Reform of Parliament. The hon. Alderman stated that the petition was unanimously agreed to by the meeting at which it originated. One of the prayers of the Petition was for a reduction of the salaries of officers of Government, in proportion to the advance that had taken place in these emoluments since the year 1792, in consequence of the high price of provisions: it was now sought to reduce those salaries, on the ground that the cost of the necessaries of life was considerably diminished. A resolution was passed by the meeting, directing him (as senior Representative) to bring forward a proposition for such a reduction; but until the returns of the emoluments of public officers (ordered the other evening) should be laid upon the Table, it would be premature to introduce the subject.Mr. Alderman Wood
765 said, that he
765Mr. Alderman Thompson
 also supported the petition. He thought that giving Representatives to the large towns would strengthen, not endanger, the Constitution.Mr. Ward
 wished that the retail dealers of the City would reform their prices, for although wholesale prices were diminished, there was not a proportionate reduction in retail prices. Taxes had been taken oft', but still retail prices were kept up in a way that was quite abominable.Mr. Heathcote
s.s.s. said, it had been carried in a Court of Common Council, on Friday last, that Jews be considered eligible to become freemen of the City, on taking the freemen's oath, according to the forms of their own religion. There was a majority of fifty-four to twenty-seven in favour of the proposition. As to retail prices, he could not agree with the hon. Member who complained of their extravagance. There was competition enough to keep them down, and they were kept down accordingly. The fact was, that retail traders suffered so much from the general distress as to be obliged frequently to sell at a loss. It was true, the Leather-tax had been taken off, and some persons imagined that the price of shoes was not lowered in proportion to the reduction in the price of leather; but he could show his hon. friend places where he might buy boots at a sufficiently low price—at from 14s.s.s.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that there were efforts made in many parts of Ireland to get up petitions against the introduction of Poor-laws. He believed also, that the committee sitting up-stairs on the subject were directing their attention to make out a case against the applicability of Poor-laws to Ireland. The fact was, that some counties in Ireland did not pay much to support their poor, and did not like to be compelled to it; while other counties—such as Wicklow—supported all their Poor. His desire, in getting Poor-laws, was to equalise the charge. He was sorry that his hon. friend (Mr. S. Rice), the Chairman of the committee on this subject, was not in his place, as he would be able to inform the House what progress the committee had made in its inquiries.Mr. Grattan
 said, that if the Jews were in the practical enjoyment of the elective franchise, one of their complaints fell to the ground. As to who Mr. Levi was, he had already said he knew nothing about him.The Solicitor General
 said, he could hardly suppose his learned friend, the Solicitor General, to be serious, when he said that the practical enjoyment of a right ought to satisfy men. Such an enjoyment was liable to be disputed, and would, of course, be disputed where the vote was of any importance. No rational man, surely, could be satisfied with this.Dr. Lushington
, in presenting a Petition from certain Catholics of Ireland, in favour of the Jews, stated, that he had great pleasure in expressing his concurrence with the petitioners.Lord Killeen
, in presenting a similar Petition from Roman Catholic gentry of the county and city of Worcester, observed, that the petitioners expressed their gratitude for the measure of last Session, by which they were restored to their rights, and thought they could not display that gratitude in any better way than in petitioning for the extension of those rights to their fellow-subjects, the Jews. He hoped this petition would have, at least, the effect of proving that they who had been stamped as bigots did not really deserve that character: and he begged to say that he heartily concurred in the views which the petitioners had taken of this subject.Mr. Martin
768 said, that he had presented a petition, on a former night, from a gentleman named Levi, and that he had then stated what the petitioner represented to be the sentiments of the Jews upon the measure which had lately been brought in. Mr. Levi had since publicly disclaimed those sentiments. He begged to say that he knew nothing of Mr. Levi. He had received the petition from Mr. Bicknell, solicitor to Greenwich Hospital. He rose now merely to state the authority upon which he had made the representation he had given to the House—namely, that the Jews did not wish for seats in Parlia-
768The Solicitor General
 begged to know, merely out of curiosity, who this Mr. Levi was who took upon himself to answer for all his brethren, and to say that they wanted neither elective franchise nor seats in Parliament. He had never heard of him before, but that perhaps only argued himself unknown.Mr. Brougham
, whose name we could not learn, expressed his concurrence in the prayer of the Petition, and observed, that there was this difference between the petitions presented this year and the last—that this year they were all on one side. There seemed, as far as the House could yet judge, to be only one feeling amongst the people on the subject of the present Bill, and that was favourable to it. The hon. and gallant Member opposite thought it would be a difficult task to prove that the admission of the Jews would promote the principle of Christianity. Now he thought it would be a still more difficult task to show that that admission would be repugnant to Christian principles.A Member
772 said, that he had a similar Petition to present from a very considerable number of highly respectable individuals in the metropolis professing the Christian religion. Amongst the signatures were the names of 150 barristers, including some of the most distinguished men in the profession, not of one court, but of practitioners in all the courts,—not of one sect of Christians, but of Protestants, Dissenters, and some of the most respectable Roman Catholic members of the bar. Among them were to be found, Mr. Den-man, Mr. Treslove, Mr. Broderip, Mr. Al-
772Mr. Brougham
 said, that he was always friendly to the principle of religious toleration, and he therefore did not object to the bill before the House, as far as it went; but he thought it did not go far enough. He had some difficulty in giving his assent to a measure which admitted Jews to equal privileges, while it left still excluded from the same privileges a considerable body of Christians.—He alluded to the members of the Society of Friends, who, though professing Christianity, were excluded from civil offices. That the claims of that body were as just as those of any others in the community, it was hardly necessary for him to attempt to prove. He believed it would be admitted, that in individual character and respectability they were not exceeded by any other class of men. In their endeavours to promote the welfare of their fellow men, and in their general attachment to civil and religious liberty, they were conspicuous amongst their countrymen; they were, therefore, as fit objects of admission to equal rights as any class of men in the community. It might perhaps be said, that they did not petition for those rights; that might be true, and he admitted that they were an unambitious people, but that did not hinder the application of the principle, for he thought that, with the admission of it in the case of the Jews, it would be a disgrace to the legislature to continue the exclusion of the Quakers.Mr. N. Calvert
773 agreed that it would be wrong to mark their disposition in
773Mr. Brougham
 said, that it had been his intention to move, as an amendment to the measure before the House, to inquire how far oaths might be dispensed with as qualifications for civil offices, and for seats in Parliament. It appeared to him that a declaration would be equally binding on an honest man, but an oath would not bind a dishonest one where he could find means to violate it with impunity. He had, however, abandoned his intention of moving an amendment,—he had been so unfortunate in his amendments; they had been the means of so much trouble to himself and inconvenience to others, that he was not disposed to venture on one again in the present case. He thought, however, that it would be absurd and unjust to pass a measure for granting the full privileges of the Constitution to the Jews, and at the same time continue the exclusion of so deserving and meritorious a class of fellow Christians as the Quakers.Mr. N. Calvert
 Cave presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Bassingbourne, Cambridge, for the abolition of Negro Slavery.Mr. Otway
780***780***Secretary Sir Robert Peel
791 said, that unfortunately on this subject his mind was not in unison with the opinions of his constituents. Still, however, he should not abandon principle for interest; for if he did, he was well aware that he should not only inflict pain on himself, but that mode of conciliating the good will of his constituents would occasion him to lose their respect. He should therefore give his support to this measure. It was insinuated that those who favoured the measure now before the House, wished to overturn the Constitution. He yielded to no man in a wish to support and maintain the Church of England in all its purity; for he believed that in doing so he should best contribute to the welfare of the people in this world, and should most truly promote their happiness in the next. He was anxious to discover a rag, a scrap of an argument—nay, even a pretence for an argument against this measure; but, so help him Heaven, be had not been able to do
791Mr. Mildmay
 explained, that his objection to the Jews was, that they were scattered over the face of the earth, united to each other, and destitute of those local attachments which constituted the patriotism of other people.Lord Belgrave
792 saw no danger in admitting Jews to the right of practising in all professions, and even of enjoying seats in corporate bodies, and filling corporate offices, but he should ever be against seeing them take their seats within that House. How was it possible that the two religions of Jews and Christians could ever be in accord with each other, when the object of the professors of the one was, to trample on the divine Author of the other? It had been represented by some hon. Members, that the Jews were, and always had been, the persecuted race, and never had been the persecutors. He wished to remind such Gentlemen that for the last eighteen centuries the Jews had not been in the possession of power, and when they did possess it, he would venture to assert that no sect had ever suffered so much from another as the Christians had suffered
792Sir E. Deering
788opes irritamentum malorum787 expressed his sorrow at being obliged on this occasion to differ from many hon. Members whom he was accustomed to agree with in public and private. He felt it his bounden duty, however, to oppose the measure, and in doing so he did not think he was departing from the principles he had professed upon a former occasion, because he considered a man might hold the most liberal sentiments in general and support the claims of the Roman Catholics, and yet adopt a different course in respect to the Bill now before the House; for he believed that those claims were founded on justice, reason, and truth—he considered that the Roman Catholics had clearly shown that the privileges they demanded would not be abused; and he felt that it was but fair to concede advantages to those who had never flinched from the support of the State. Now, there were two points on which he objected to the measure in. favour
788opes irritamentum malorum787Lord Belgrave
De multis minimam posco, clamavit, et unam.""—Unam minimamque relinque,799798 was surprised at the opposition this Bill had experienced, for neither in point of policy nor expediency did it demand the attention and opposition it had experienced. The admission of thirty or forty thousand Jews to the privileges of the Constitution could make but little difference in its chance of future existence; and when he heard hon. Members talk of danger to that Constitution, he could not but wonder in what that danger
De multis minimam posco, clamavit, et unam.""—Unam minimamque relinque,799798Lord J. Russell
814Cheers and calls for "Question.813ipso facto812811laughterhear, hear from Mr. Bankes810809808 said, that he differed altogether from the right hon. Gentleman, although he admitted that, taking the views he did, they were argued with fairness. He had not appealed to violence or to passion—he had not, like one Member, reminded us that these people were the descendants of those who had crucified our Saviour—nor, like another, that they practised usurious dealing—nor like another, the gallant General, who had certainly given a novel and extraordinary gloss on Christianity—namely, that of altering the command "Do ye unto others as ye would they should do unto you," into this, "Do ye unto others as they would do unto you." This was an innovation, in the nineteenth century of the Christian era, which would certainly lead to a most wonderful alteration in the whole system of the Christian dispensation. He begged pardon; he did not ascribe these words to his hon. friend, he only took the liberty of putting the gallant General's argument in his own words. In the course of the debate a number of
814Cheers and calls for "Question.813ipso facto812811laughterhear, hear from Mr. Bankes810809808Mr. Brougham
Exact the penalty."Who, if he break, thou may'st with better faceBut lend it rather to thine enemy;A breed of barren metal of his friend?)As to thy friends (for when did friendship takeIf thou wilt lend this money, lend it notTo spit on thee again, to spurn thee too."I am as like to call thee so again,AntonioYou call'd me dote;"—and so on.You spurned me such a day; another time"Fair Sir, you spat on me, on Wednesday last;Shy lockMerchant of Venice,790***789 said, that although a friend to liberty in general, and to parliamentary reform, he should oppose this Motion, as he considered it uncalled-for. He did not see that it could be advocated as necessary, either upon grounds of justice or state policy; and therefore, although unwillingly, he must raise his voice against it, now that the measure was fully before the House; it was plain that a stress was specifically laid by the mover of this Bill, upon the necessity of admiting Jews into Parliament. He objected to such a doctrine:—first, because the admission was uncalled-for by any necessity of doing justice, or by reasons of state policy; secondly, because, as professors of the religion of Christ, the Legislature ought never to admit unbelievers to have any control or management of Christian institutions. Upon the non-necessity of the measure, and on that account alone, if there were no other, the House ought not to adopt it. He would quote, to support this view, the words of the right hon. member for Liverpool (Mr. Huskisson), when he opposed, two years before, the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts. The right hon. Gentleman, to whom he was then opposed, as he believed he was now opposed to him, gave reasons for voting against the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts which appeared peculiarly applicable to the present Bill. His words, as reported, were these. "He doubted whether the motion was calculated or directed to remove, or to repress any urgent grievance. If an oppressive grievance existed, if a wrong of some kind or other were committed, would they have failed to remonstrate against the continuance of the system. The fact could not
Exact the penalty."Who, if he break, thou may'st with better faceBut lend it rather to thine enemy;A breed of barren metal of his friend?)As to thy friends (for when did friendship takeIf thou wilt lend this money, lend it notTo spit on thee again, to spurn thee too."I am as like to call thee so again,AntonioYou call'd me dote;"—and so on.You spurned me such a day; another time"Fair Sir, you spat on me, on Wednesday last;Shy lockMerchant of Venice,790***789Lord Darlington
770 said, that he had to present to the House a Petition from the Merchants, Bankers, Traders, and other inhabitants of the city of London, in favour of the Bill for the admission of Jews to an equal participation of civil rights with other British subjects, to which he was anxious to call the attention of the House. As the subject would be brought under full discussion that evening, it was not his intention to take up the time of the House by any lengthened remarks, yet he should not do justice to the petitioners if he did not state who they were, for the purpose of making the House aware of the importance which ought to be attached to their Petition. It was signed by upwards of 14,000 persons; and, including a large number of the bankers, and a large proportion of the most respectable commercial houses in the city, and of other respectable individuals, it might be said to contain as large a number of signatures as had ever been placed to any petition from London presented to that House. There were signed to it the names of 2,600 merchants, twenty-seven bankers, eleven Bank-directors, 1,100 doctors of medicine and other medical practitioners, 500 attornies, and if the names of no barristers were affixed, it was because they had chosen to present a petition from their own body, which he understood would be presented by his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham). It was therefore a most important testimonial in favour of the Jews, because it was from the great body of those amongst whom they resided; who, however they might differ amongst themselves in opinions upon other points, were agreed in this—that from their habits and conduct as British subjects, the Jews had a strong claim to admission to equal rights with others. Of the Jews dwelling in this country there were 18,000 resident in London; and it was, he repeated, a high testimony in their favour that those to whom they were so well known should come forward in this public manner on their behalf. It was a proof of the good-will borne by them to
770Mr. A. Baring
 presented a Petition from the county of Roscommon, against the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland.Mr. French
 presented a Petition from a number of Newspaper Proprietors in Ireland, praying that no additional duty might be laid on Newspaper Stamps in that country. The petitioners stated, that if such a measure were resorted to, the revenue, instead of being increased, would be reduced to little more than one-half of its present amount. That, however, appeared to be the least important part of the subject, for he believed that an additional impost would strike at once at the root of the whole newspaper press of Ireland; and, in his opinion, the existence of such a press was, to a country placed in the situation of I re-land, of the utmost importance. He thought that the press of Ireland, in making known abuses, was most advantageous to the people of that country, and therefore he should oppose any measure that was likely to be prejudicial to it. It appeared to him that the Irish press had been greatly instrumental in effecting the all-important measure which had recently been sanctioned by the Legislature,—a measure which, more than any other, was calculated to restore and to preserve peace and tranquillity in Ireland. He had himself no connexion with that country, and he supposed that the petitioners would have intrusted their petition to some hon. Irish Member, who might have done it more justice than he could, if they had not thought that the proposition which they opposed ought to be looked to as a general measure—as a measure not confined to Ireland, but one which would affect the whole of the United Kingdom.Mr. P. Thomson
761 said, he had been Requested to support the prayer of this pe-
761Mr. O'Connell
 said, that the Act for establishing such asylums in Ireland, had contributed to make many people rich, but it did not relieve the poor. That some measure ought instantly to be adopted he was however convinced; nothing could be more frightful and horrible than the state of the poor in Ireland. No less than 8,000 persons in Dublin were without the means of support. Disease must follow upon famine, and then the rich as well as the poor would suffer. He had always advocated the principle of the Poor-laws his only difficulty was, in what way they should be applied.Mr. O'Connell
796795Côté Droite,Côté Gauche,794 said, he was proud of the opportunity of supporting the measure. He supported it both on principle and sympathy. The time had but recently gone by, when the Catholics were assailed by clamours which he would refute that very evening by his conduct. They had been assailed by a cry, which might be very satisfactory to some Christians, who thought that no others were right in argument or good sense but themselves. The cry then raised was Protestant—now it was Christian. To persons who now raised that cry against this measure, he would say that they avoided or evaded the true principles of Christianity, which were liberality and charity. On the former occasion, these persons said that the Catholics were the advocates of bigotry. Who were the advocates of bigotry now? Christian charity, with such people, was a good thing to talk of, but when they came to the point they refused to put it in practice. Who were before the House now in the character of claimants for rights? They were not foreigners—they were not Poles—nor Russians—nor Turks—nor French-
796795Côté Droite,Côté Gauche,794Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that what the noble Lord said was, that he should be able to show that the admission of the Jews to equal rights would promote the principle of Christianity; and he (Mr. O'Connell), who agreed in religious feelings with that noble Lord, agreed with him also in that principle. As to the opinions with respect to the petition presented last year, to which the hon. and gallant Member alluded, they were very different in their character from those presented in favour of the Jews. He would not say broadly that they were founded in ignorance, but they certainly betrayed a want of knowledge, and had some tinge of bigotry about them. He regretted that so many should have been presented to exclude a portion of the subjects of the realm from political power, on account of a difference in religious opinion; but he had the satisfaction to think that many by whom those petitions were signed had since found cause to alter their opinion, and had the candour to avow it.Mr. O'Connell
779778, in continuation, said, he did not know whether the hon. Mem-
779778Mr. E. Davenport
 said, he would save him the trouble.Mr. E. Davenport
784, in reply, said, the only conclusion to be drawn from the right hon. Gentleman's statements was, that the 25,000 petitioners had put their signatures to a string of falsehoods. He denied, however, that the right hon. Gentleman had disproved any portion of them, although he admitted that he was mistaken in that part of the argument which related to the consumption of butchers' meat. He repeated, however, his assertion, that the boasted increase of trade on the Worcester Canal was the result of peculiar circumstances; and he
784Mr. E. D. Davenport
l.l.777l.l.776775 said, that he had the honour to present to the House a Petition, which, whether they considered the subject to which it referred, the place from whence it came, or the great number of signatures attached to it, would, he was sure, be admitted to be one of considerable importance. For himself, he had to entreat the indulgence of the House—the more particularly when he considered how many of those hon. Members by whom he was surrounded would have done the subject much greater justice than it was in his power to do it—while he entered into some few details connected with the topics to which the Petition referred. This Petition was from one of the greatest commercial towns in the world: it was signed by 25,000 of the inhabitants of that town, and it prayed for a Reform in the Com-
l.l.777l.l.776775Mr. E. Davenport
 said, that he could bear testimony to the disposition of the Roman Catholics, in that part of the country with which he was connected, to extend to others that civil and religious liberty which they themselves had recently obtained.Mr. Protheroe
800 was understood to declare, that he had heard no satisfactory reasons, to induce him to consent to so new and inexpedient a measure. The hon. and learned member for Clare had said, that the arguments urged against the Catholic Relief Bill, were not suitable on this occasion. He thought so too, but he felt that the reverse of the proposition was equally true, and that the arguments which were used in favour of that Bill were not adapted to this measure. It had been said, that while the law excluded the Jew, it gave admission to the Deist or the Atheist; but he denied that such was the fact. Certainly an Atheist, who had the hardihood to despise all oaths, might take those prescribed by the House, and thus gain admission to the Table; but, in his opinion, there was a moral power in the House which would strip him of all influence, and reduce him to utter insignificance. It had been asked whether, after the Jews had acquired property and knowledge, it was fit to withhold from them political privileges? Mr. Burke and others had said that "the supreme is the legislative power," and for that supreme power they were not qualified as long as they continued enemies to Christianity. He had no idea of admitting Jews, who differed in principles from the very foundation of the law of the land, to a control over the legislative powers. In other states, in which the Jews were admitted to civil and political rights, the legislative power, which they were allowed to share, was not so extensive and comprehensive as it was in England. It was, in fact, rather administrative than legislative power they were allowed to share. When he considered that in the House of Commons,
800Mr. G. Bankes
 observed, that he also was requested to support the prayer of the petition; and he would say that, no measure was more likely than that now proposed to destroy the press of Ireland—no project could possibly have a greater tendency to produce that effect. It would at the same time not only injure the Revenue derived from newspapers, but it would materially lessen the Revenue which flowed from other sources connected with the newspaper press.Mr. G. Moore
786 declared his determination to oppose the Bill if it proposed to confer on the Jews the privileges already granted to the Roman Catholics. The Constitution was a Protestant Constitution, and it was necessary for its support and protection that the institutions which made it so should be maintained. If any man had a few years ago asserted that, in the course of two Sessions, that House would repeal the Test and Corporation Acts—remove all the political disabilities of the Roman Catholics—and then entertain the question of relieving the Jews—he apprehended that his friends would have thought him a person it was necessary to keep a tight look after. For his part, he entertained no very favourable opinion of religious liberty. He thought it was little better than a mere union of sects. He could not for his life understand how any man who opposed the admission of the Catholics could vote for the relief of the Jews. The Catholics, indeed, had some claims to that which was conceded them. They possessed considerable property, an immense population, and they professed the religion once held by our ancestors. It was
786General Gascoyne
771 did not rise to object to the Petition being brought up, though he owned that he was decidedly hostile to its prayer. It was said, that there were no petitions from any part of the country against the Bill; but the reason was, because the people did not believe that the House had any serious notion of carrying it; for if they had, no doubt the petitions against it would have been numerous enough before now. Hon. Members seemed now to attach great importance to petitions from the city of London and other places; but when petitions from those places were presented last year on another subject, they were not received with the same cordiality or respect; on the contrary, they were said to be the result of ignorance and bigotry. He would not, however, enter further into the subject; except to remark, in reference to what had been stated by a noble Lord, namely, that he should be able to prove that the admission of the Jews to equal rights would promote Christianity, that he should be glad to hear the noble Lord's proofs, and he had no doubt that he should derive much information from his discussion of the subject: but he would find
771General Gascoyne
 said, the proposed assimilation of Stamp-duties was a very harsh and unfair proceeding towards the press of Ireland, and he trusted that Ministers would not force it on that country. In the course of the last year the newspaper press of Ireland had taken a tone which was calculated to do much good, by preserving peace and harmony in the country. He very much doubted if the measure of the right hon. Gentleman would produce any accession of revenue, and, in other respects he was quite certain that it would operate mischievously.Mr. J. Grattan
767 said, that every nation had found it necessary to make some provision for the poor, in order to prevent vagrancy and mendicity; and he was sure that Ireland, where both prevailed to such an alarming extent, must sooner or later do the same. There was at present no means of distinguishing between the really distressed and those who were only idle, and asylums supported by the county, in which those who were able to work, but chose to
767Mr. Monck
 would be happy to see the City of London begin that reform at home which she demanded in the House of Commons: when she should have admitted all her own citizens to equal privileges, she could come before the House and urge the request with a better grace.Mr. Hume
774 said, after what had fallen from the hon. member for Hertfordshire with respect to the Quakers, he could entertain no doubt that it was his intention to bring in a bill for giving them the same civil rights as those now enjoyed by so many other Dissenters from the Church of England. On this subject he would only say, that whenever that measure came forward, it should have his cordial concurrence; and if the hon. Member would favour him with his vote in support of the bill for the Jews, he should be most happy
774Mr. R. Grant
 said, before the House went into a consideration of the Bill thus designated, the second reading of which stood for that evening, he would take leave to present some Petitions, which he considered entitled to the attention of the House. The Solicitor General had, in the early part of the evening, referred to a petition from a person named Levy, in which he stated the Jewish people in this country to be indifferent to the result of the application now made to Parliament in their behalf, and to feel no desire for a relief from the disabilities under which they laboured. The petition he now presented was signed in a very short period of time by 592 of the Jews resident in London, comprising among them most of those who were distinguished by their wealth, their respectability, and their attachment to their religion; and they, in the strongest manner, implored the House to remove those disabilities which Mr. Levy took it on himself to declare were with them an object of indifference. He thought that this testimony was a sufficient answer to all statements on that point. He had another Petition to present from a Priest of the Jewish persuasion, living in Huntingdonshire. This gentleman placed the question on prophetical grounds; but whatever difference of opinion there might be on that question, he conceived that the petitioner's deductions would be found to be sounder than those of his opponents, inasmuch as he contended for humanity and good feeling in opposition to bigotry and exclusion. He had also a Petition in favour of the Jews to present from Mr. Robert Owen, a highly respectable individual, well known to many of the Members of that House.Mr. Robert Grant
, in moving the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Jews' Relief Bill, said, that it was unnecessary for him to reply to the objection of the hon. Baronet at that time. An assent to the second reading of the Bill for the Relief of the Jews did not pledge any Member to the details of the measure. It merely declared that they thought the Jews should be relieved, and left all objections to the details to be taken in that subsequent stage, when they, with more propriety, came under consideration. The hon. Member then moved that the Bill be now read a second time.Mr. R. Grant
 rose to address the House amidst loud calls of "Question;" but, after an ineffectual attempt to make himself heard, he resumed his seat.—We understood the hon. Member to be desirous of stating his reasons for opposing the measure.Mr. Perceval
802801 said, that knowing the ability and power of argument which distinguished the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion, and believing that his attempt would be crowned with success, he had come down with the intention of supporting him only by a silent vote; but he was tempted to break through that resolution by the speech of his gallant friend, the member for Liverpool, and by that of the noble Lord who had referred to him and to the petition which he had presented from Liverpool on this subject. His gallant and hon. friend had admitted that the petition was numerously and respectably signed; but he added, that several of the signatures were obtained under the influence of the Jews, and the noble Lord said, with regard to the petition of the bankers and merchants, that the Jews could dispose of the feelings of the trading classes of society as they pleased. In his opinion, these statements were much overcharged, and he could assure the House, that in Liverpool the Jews were retail dealers, and constituted a very small and uninfluential class. The sentiments in the petition were the genuine opinions of those who signed it, and they should be taken as the sentiments of the Christians of Liverpool on the subject—His hon. and gallant colleague said, he was an enemy to all innovation, and that our ancestors would never consent to innovation. His hon. friend had, indeed, confessed that the Roman Catholic religion was entitled to some favour, because it was an ancient religion; but he hoped his hon. friend would not consider the Jews less entitled than the Catholics to favour on the score of antiquity. And when he said that our ancestors were enemies to innovation, he seemed to have forgotten that they introduced a Reformation—that they produced a Revolution—and that they expelled a King because they suspected him of a design to destroy the then new religion of the country. The noble Lord had taunted him with a speech he had made some time since on the subject of the admission of the Protestant Dissenters to the State; but the noble Lord misunder-
802801Mr. Huskisson
764l.l.l.l.763 said, he was about to present a Petition of very considerable importance, on which he begged leave to say a very few words, and he trusted that his right hon. friend near him would favour him with his attention while he did so. The subject to which the petition related was of great consequence to those merchants who carried on trade with South America and other parts of the world, and who were obliged to import large quantities of Bullion. The petitioners stated the great loss and injury to which the trade was exposed, in consequence of the high rate of freight charged by King's ships and Government packets, whenever, for safety, Bullion was sent home in these vessels. By an order
764l.l.l.l.763Mr. Huskisson
 complained, that in the formation of the Committee on this subject the name of the Gentleman who had first brought it forward was omitted. The names of Gentlemen who formed committees were read so rapidly, that no one had time to object to any of them, or to add others. He should bring forward a motion, rendering it necessary that the names of the Gentlemen, whom it was intended to appoint on Committees, should be before the House a reasonable time before the appointments took place.Mr. Trant
Cries of "Order!" and "Chair, Chair.!" rose to order. He must object to the hon. Member entering into so many statements on presenting a Petition [Cries of "Order!" and "Chair, Chair.!"Mr. Trant
797 said, he was disposed, on many grounds, not much to favour the Bill, and he could not be pleased to find it in the hands of the same hon. Member who presented a petition from Mr. Robert Owen, who, if not in plain terms, at least in an implied sense, signified that Christianity was an imposture. Let the present Motion be glossed over as it might, it went to repeal that which our ancestors enacted and stood by, and the Legislature was departing from the principles which gave it birth, when it abandoned that Christianity which was interwoven with the Constitution itself. He heard it stated, with some surprise, that in the present situation of this kingdom, the Jews should not be considered as Jews separate from the bulk of the people, but as Christians united with them. It was said, that if Christianity was the law of the land, the Jews who preferred the Scriptures which formed the basis of Christianity were equally professors of our religion, and members of our civil community; but he could never be convinced by such sophistry, and his conscience told him to disclaim that Jews were Christians in any sense or construction. He was persuaded that the opinion of the great mass of the people of this country was opposed to the measure, though he was told that the bankers and the merchants, and the traders, were in its favour. A few persons who were in a situation to be affected by a connection with Jews, might assert that opinion was strongly with them; but he knew the mass of the people too well to suppose them willing to desert the principles which gave birth to the Constitution and the liberty they enjoyed. In 1753 a partial Relief Bill for the Jews was brought in, but the very next Session the people called on the Parliament not to pass it. The people of England were, perhaps, not much disposed to be pleased with the measures which it passed last year; but though they might be reconciled to the admission of Roman Catholics and Protestant Dissenters to a community of political freedom, they were
797Mr. Trant
 hoped he might be allowed to avail himself of that opportunity of removing an erroneous impression as to what fell from him on Thursday last. In answer to a question put to him by an hon. friend, he was told he had been understood to have said that the increased production and exportation of sugar from the Mauritius arose from the great number of slaves illegally introduced into that colony. In this view of what he said he had been misunderstood. He had not attributed it to that circumstance. The illegal importation alluded to took place between the years 1814 and 1821; and the stimulus given to the increased growth of sugar was by the Act of 1825, which encouraged the cultivation of sugar where coffee had been grown before. It was also in a considerable degree to be attributed to the improvement in the machinery used, and to the application of the steam-engine. He was anxious to set himself right on this point, and he hoped that what he now said would remove the erroneous impression.Sir G. Murray
 said, he could not agree with the right hon. Baronet in the conclusion he drew from these statements, and he protested against the system of answering all complaints on such subjects, by reading a few isolated and unauthenticated documents. He knew, however, in defiance of these documents, that the families receiving parochial relief in the town of Birmingham had increased from 2,469 in 1826, to 3,878 in 1830, and that there was an increase of distress in that town, to the amount of at least fifty per cent, since the year 1826. He feared it would be found, even if he admitted the correctness of the right hon. Baronet's statements, that the comforts of the poor were diminishing, as the luxuries of the rich were increasing, and that the want of employment was severely felt, notwithstanding all the boasts of prosperity.Mr. Robinson
 strongly objected to any additional duty on newspapers; and the placing of a heavier duty on the Irish press would, in his opinion, be especially mischievous. It would have the effect of checking the habit of reading, the encouragement of which would do much to tranquillize Ireland. He was sure, that at present, a great deal of evil originated in the non-existence of the habit of reading amongst the lower classes in that country.Sir H. Parnell
785 said, it was not to be supposed that an humble individual such as he was could expect to obtain a hearing in the course of a debate so important as that about to take place; he should take that opportunity therefore to
785Sir John Wrottesley
l.l.l.l.783l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.782781 said, he did not want to be saved the trouble. He wanted the hon. Member, and all other hon. Members who complained of the effects of that Bill which bore his name, and who continually stated that it had been productive of evil to the country—he wanted those hon. Members to hear the facts which disproved their assertions. He had stated on a former occasion, that the number both of two-wheeled and four-wheeled carriages had increased in Birmingham; and he had quoted that increase to show that the people had increased in comforts and luxuries, which he took to be an indication of increasing prosperity. In order to obtain, the information, he had applied to the Ex-
l.l.l.l.783l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.782781Sir Robert Peel
807à fortiori,No, no, no.hear!806hear!805804803 spoke as follows. I shall endeavour, Sir, to condense into the shortest possible compass what I have to say on the present occasion. As I had not the advantage of being here on the former discussion, I hope the House will bear with me should I trouble them with any thing that they might have heard before. I must set out by saying, that I cannot support this Bill. I do not admit the principle of the Bill, nor can I help objecting to the mode in which it is sought
807à fortiori,No, no, no.hear!806hear!805804803Sir Robert Peel
793Hear, hear, hear! from all sides of the House meant to give the measure his most cordial support. He saw no danger in it, nor could he well conceive what objections could be made to it. It was said, that the Jews of different countries would not amalgamate with the natives of the countries in which they resided. Was that statement true? Did not the noble Lord know that the Jews, who were admitted to the possession of rights, liberties, and privileges in France and the Netherlands were as distinguished and useful members of the community as any others? He would ask whether this country was to be exclusively Christian [793Hear, hear, hear! from all sides of the HouseSir Robert Wilson
 said, he had to present a Petition, most numerously and respectably signed, from the Borough of Southwark, in favour of the Jews. In that borough, the first battle was fought and the first triumph obtained in favour of the Catholics and Dissenters at the last general election; the inhabitants of that borough now asked that the Jews might be allowed to possess the same rights as themselves.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that the Jews already exercised the elective franchise, whether by law or not; certain it was that they had that franchise practically, for they exercised it.Sir R. Wilson
 said, persons both for and against the introduction of Poor-laws in Ireland had been examined before the committee. Within the last few days a gentleman was examined who had gone over to Ireland to inquire into the land-revenue of the Crown in that country, and who remained there a considerable time. This individual stated, that he went over to Ireland friendly, from what he had heard and read, to the introduction of Poor-laws; but he was now of a decidedly contrary opinion, after having been in some of the wildest parts of the country, and where there was the greatest number of paupers. So far from promoting the interests of the poor, this gentleman thought such a system would be highly injurious to them; and that instead of preventing or diminishing, it would augment the influx of Irish labourers into this country.Sir J. Newport
762 said, he had very serious doubts as to this measure being of such a nature as to produce any other effects, except loss of revenue, discontent, and dissatisfaction; and therefore he wished to impress on the House the extreme importance of the subject. The existence of the press of Ireland was very important to the welfare of that country, So far from its
762Sir J. Newport
, in the absence of the hon. member for Limerick, assured the hon. Gentleman that the committee was inquiring into the question impartially.Lord Althorp
 protested against the doctrine of the hon. Member, which he had then advanced with more than his usual hardihood. He denied that the clergy were to be considered, like the military, the stipendiaries of the State, and denied that the State had the power of dealing with their incomes as it might deal with the pay of soldiers. He asserted that the one-tenth of the produce of the land was as much the property of the Church as the remaining nine-tenths were the property of the owners of the soil. One-third of the Tithes, however, was the property of lay impropriators, and that was exacted with more rigour than the two-thirds which were in the hands of churchmen.Sir R. H. Inglis
l.l.l. said, that the proportion of Tithe to rent was much more than one-tenth, which the hon. Baronet claimed for the clergy. He knew an instance in which, four years ago, the rent of a farm was 600l.l.l.Mr. F. Palmer
826l.l. said, on a former occasion he had put a hypothetical case, namely,—that if the revenues of certain sees (he had those of London and Canterbury in his eye, although he did not name them) became worth upwards of 100,000826l.l.Mr. Baring
 concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, but as there would be more fitting occasions to discuss the merits of the Church than on the presentation of a petition, he should say nothing on the subject.Mr. Estcourt
 said, that he was not called upon to state his opinion upon the subject of imprisonment for debt. Whatever that opinion might be, as long as the public opinion was divided on the subject, and a majority of that House was against the abolition of arrest for Debt on mesne process, it would not be consistent with the duty of the situation which he held to attempt to force upon the country a measure which would subvert a system that had now existed for so many years. He would take this opportunity of putting it to his noble friend, the member for Morpeth (Lord Morpeth), whether he would persevere with his motion which stood for that evening, viz.—"To repeal so much of 60 George 3rd, c. 8, as subjects persons, upon the second conviction for libel, to banishment." It was his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill, which would effect precisely the same object which his noble friend had in view. His measure would also contain a clause to facilitate the recovery of damages for Libel; but still it would do all his noble friend proposed to do; and he took this opportunity, therefore, of putting it to his noble friend, whether it would not be better for him to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice?The Attorney General
828l.l.de novo said, that the measure would apply, not to existing newspapers, but only to newspapers which should be hereafter established. The object of it was to call upon the proprietors of all newspapers established 828l.l.de novoThe Attorney General
 begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department whether it was the intention of the Government to oppose the motion of his hon. friend (Mr. Keith Douglas) for a committee to inquire into the distressed condition of the British West India colonists?Lord Chandos
 said, that he would now move that the Resolutions respecting Sir Jonah Barrington be taken into consideration on Saturday.Lord F. L. Gower
836 said, that if his hon. friend wished to know whether the Government were disposed to do all in its power to alleviate any evils connected with the subject to which he referred, and to take it fully into its consideration, he could assure him that he and those with whom he acted would not be found wanting in a disposition to comply with his desires as fully as possible in that respect. At the same time he could assure the hon. Member, that however Government might be disposed to relieve the commercial relations of the West-Indian interest from embarrassment, any immediate remedy for the evils complained of was impossible.
836Mr. Herries
 observed, that it had long been a subject of lively regret to many as well as himself that in a question of such vital interest to this country—namely, the prosperity of the West-India Colonies—their interests had not been taken up as they ought to have been by his Majesty's Government: he was connected with those Colonies himself, and feeling, as he did, that they were a suffering and overburthened part of this great empire, their interests, he thought, imperatively called on the Administration to take up their affairs, with a view to afford that portion of our dominions advantages equivalent to those enjoyed by other portions of our colonial establishments. If Ministers, in that spirit, would consent to pledge themselves to take up the subject, with a view to their relief, he should recommend his hon. friend to leave it in their hands, otherwise he should prefer the adoption of some other parliamentary mode of inquiry.The Marquis of Chandos
 said, though he was not in general a very orderly person, yet he must, on this occasion, set an example of order to his hon. friend who, though at times the preserver of order among others, had, on this occasion, been most disorderly—he must show his sense of what was due to the usual course of proceedings, by refusing to enter into the subject, as there was no Question before the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 inquired how many places would be created by the bill, and who was to have the patronage?Mr. Brougham
 could not answer till the bill came into Parliament, but he would be happy to accept the services of his hon. and learned friend, and of the hon. member for Crick lade, as commissioners. It was, however, a work which ought to be well done, and he could not therefore suppose that it ought to be done for nothing.The Attorney General
 objected to proceeding with such important business at that late hour.Mr. O'Connell
 deprecated delay. The House had been accustomed to sit much later.Mr. Brougham
 said, that his Majesty's Message had been sent down to Parliament three weeks, and had not yet been taken into consideration. The proceeding then would be altogether preliminary. He must object to the practice of only devoting four hours every day to public business, as tending to create much mischief.Sir Robert Peel
865 complained that the House was proceeding with the measures to improve the Administration of Justice, and so many projects for this purpose were on foot, that he thought it was necessary first of all to take a general view of the subject. There was one part of the suggestion of the right hon. Secretary which he considered as very important, and might, perhaps, be unnecessary, if the Local Courts suggested by the hon.
865Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that a part, and an essential part of his plan was, that Westminster Hall should remain the chief source of justice, and should control and revise the proceedings of the Local Courts.Mr. Brougham
 declared that he would decidedly oppose further proceedings.Mr. O'Connell
 complained of the conduct of the hon. member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Portman), in forcing on the third reading of his bill for the Watching and Lighting of Parishes, last night. He, as well as many others, had gone home under the assurance from the hon. member for Dorsetshire that there was not the slightest chance of the bill being discussed, and he certainly thought he had good ground of complaint. Having said so much, he was not disposed to resist the present motion, at which every one was present, or ought to be present, who had any interest in the question.Mr. Benett
, having then stated that the business of the evening was merely formal, and that by agreeing to the clauses the House did not pledge itself to anything, but merely put the Bill into a fit state for future discussion—The Attorney General
 withdrew his opposition, and the House went into a committee, Sir Alexander Grant in the chair.Mr. O'Connell
866l.l. complained of the largeness of this salary in the present distressed state of the country, and expressed his regret that he had once been induced to grant so large a sum as 5,500866l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, it was extremely desirable that the retiring salary of the judges should more closely approach the full allowance, in order that there might be less apology for judges retaining their offices after they became unable to fill them with effect.Mr. O'Connell
 then postponed his opposition until the recommitment of the Bill, when he hoped to have the opinions of a larger number of the Members of the House.Mr. Hume
861l.l.860, he rose to move the Order of the Day for the taking the report of the committee on the Birmingham and London Junction Canal Company into con-
861l.l.860Mr. Dugdalesaid
862 approved of the resolutions so far as they went, but in his opinion they did not go far enough, and he could not help expressing his surprise that some more decided course had not been taken to meet a case of such vital importance. There could not be a doubt but that a fraud had been contemplated to a great extent on the 19th of February, when the list was lodged. In the committee, Mr. Eyre Lee, the solicitor, was called on to produce a list, which he did, and which he gave in. There were two members of the committee who cautioned him against persevering in the attestation of the list, because they were aware that it was a fabricated and fallacious list. They were also aware that the declared consent of" several persons was fallacious, and letters were read to that effect; and he (Mr. Benson) knew from one nobleman that his name had been made use of as assenting to the bill without his sanction, and
862Mr. Benson
 said, as he had been referred to by the hon. member for Stafford, to determine whether the present was a question of privilege or not, he could only say that the subject was before the House, and it was for the House to determine, whether any party was censurable or not, and to what extent that censure ought to go, and whether more time was necessary before the House came to so strong a decision.The Speaker
 said, in order to put the question in a tangible shape, he would move that Mr. Thomas Eyre Lee, Solicitor to the London and Birmingham Junction Canal Company, be called before the House, for the purpose of being reprimanded.Mr. Benson
 said, he hoped the hon. Member would allow him to suggest to him that such a motion ought to be made, independently of the resolutions which were proposed by the hon. member for Warwickshire. It should not be made as an adjunct to those resolutions, but the hon. Member was not precluded from making a distinct motion.The Speaker
 said, he had paid attention to the case; but of course he could not know as much as the members of the committee, and he recommended that some time should be given for inquiry, and to allow Members to make up their minds on so important a proceeding.Mr. Hume
 said, the motion of the hon. member for Warwickshire should be taken by itself. It was distinct from that of the hon. member for Stafford, which contemplated the redress of a gross violation of the privileges of the House.Colonel Peel
 was not inclined to assent to the postponement of his resolution.Mr. Benson
 begged the hon. Gentleman to understand that his motion was perfectly distinct from the resolution; and that he was at liberty to press it or adjourn it as he pleased.Sir R. Peel
 deprecated the idea of deciding so strong a point without notice having been given, and he recommended the hon. Member to give notice, and withdraw his motion for the present.Mr. W. Wynn
 then proposed to adjourn his motion till Thursday next.Mr. Benson
 suggested that the best way would be, to move that the report be taken into consideration on that day.Mr. Wynn
l. rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to ascertain the boundaries of the forest of Dean, which he said might be made a very valuable property. It contained 23,000 acres of land well calculated to grow forest timber. It contained also coal, lime, and iron stone, in abundance; but these were of little value to the Crown, because the inhabitants of the surrounding districts claimed a right to dig for them, and carried that right so extensively into practice, that the revenue derived by the Crown from this large tract did not exceed 800l.Lord Lowther
858l.857l.l.856855 said, as he had before had occasion to argue a question, if not precisely of this kind, at least of the same tenour and import, he should not trouble the House with many observations upon this Motion. He was likewise relieved from the trouble of answering
858l.857l.l.856855The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, if it was the intention of the Attorney General to give the House an opportunity of discussing the subject relating to the Court of Chancery? For one year it had been put oft" in hopes of the Lord Chancellor's bill. This bill came down and was then withdrawn. He made this inquiry because, if there was not some reasonable prospect of this measure reaching the House, it would be necessary for some hon. Member at his side of the House to bring forward a motion, with a view to discuss the question.Mr. Brougham
847l.846 said, if he should offer nothing very luminous to the House on the subject, it would find an apology for him in his want of legal qualifications, and if he should fail to make any original observations, the House would remember the circumstance to which the right hon. Baronet adverted at the opening of his address, namely, that the subject had been twice or thrice before under discussion. In his opinion, the whole question turned upon the point, whether it were incumbent upon or lawful in the commissioners of First Fruits, to institute from time to time an inquiry into the value of the benefices of Ireland, and to take the First Fruits, not according to the original valuation, but according to the improved or reduced value, as the case might be. In his humble opinion, the affirmative of this proposition could not be legally made out. That there had been differences of opinion upon this subject between professional men he was aware, and he did not presume to decide concerning the relative qualifications of the two learned individuals who had given different opinions on the subject. Of the qualifications of one of them he was totally ignorant, but the person to whom he was opposed was no less than Lord Plunkett. There had been, and were still, persons in the House able to speak on any question, so as to render a discussion, even of a legal nature, not only clear but interesting. He had unfortunately no such qualification; but Lord Plunkett had left behind him a weapon which, however inefficiently he should wield it, would yet be sufficient to enable him to repel the attack of the right hon. Baronet. He meant to do little more than recapitulate some of the arguments made use of by him in 1824.
847l.846Lord Francis Leveson Gower
 hoped the proposed alteration in the law of arrest would be maturely considered before the House agreed to it.Mr. C. Barclay
864 did not mean to oppose the motion, but he would suggest that an ordinary commission of perambu-
864Mr. D. W. Harvey
829 protested against the principle on which the Attorney General
829Mr. O'Connell
l.830l. presented a petition from Journeymen Silk-weavers of Spitalfields. The petitioners stated that there was too much money spent in building churches and palaces; that there was a German prince who had 50,000l.830l.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition from James Kelly, late lieutenant of the revenue police, complaining that he had been dismissed without trial, and praying the House to take his case into consideration.Mr. O'Connell
831 said, that he knew nothing of the petitioner or of his case before the present occasion, but he had seen testimonials, the most satisfactory, as to his conduct, and all he was anxious to press upon the House was, that the case of the petitioner should be again revised, so as to give him the opportunity he prayed for, of bringing forward such proofs as would be sufficient to exculpate
831Mr. O'Connell
 said, it was true the notice was taken out of the orders, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, but the intention of presenting them was not wholly given up. His own wish on the subject was, that, under all the circumstances, the matter should not be further pressed, but it did not rest wholly with him. He had written to the parties from whom the petitions came, advising them to allow him to withdraw the petitions altogether, or to confide them to the care of some other hon. Member. To that letter he had not received a reply, and could not before Saturday; and on Monday he should be able to give the hon. and learned Gentleman a definitive answer.Mr. O'Connell
 wished the House to remark, that there was a broad distinction between the clergy and religion. If anybody talked of dilapidated churches, neglect of duty in the education of the poor, or the exaction of Tithes, then it was a matter of great delicacy. Religion might be attacked with much less ceremony.Mr. Protheroe
 admitted, that the clergy were not under the control of the State exactly like soldiers, but he thought, nevertheless, that they were liable to be called to account by the public for their management of Church property. He was not prepared to argue against a Church Establishment, and on that account was anxious that the clergy should obviate objections, by discharging their duties properly, in proportion to the amount of the salaries which they received.Mr. Protheroe
 said, that the petitioner had been dismissed for claiming and receiving the reward for services which had never been performed. So far from having been dismissed without trial, the petitioner had been confronted with the witnesses, his case had been fully heard, and the charges had been completely proved against him.Mr. G. Dawson
 said, that the petitioner had had every opportunity given him of exculpating himself, and that he had failed entirely.Mr. G. Dawson
 did not rise to offer any opinion upon the proposed measure, but to allude to one which the Attorney General had already brought in. He objected to so many important subjects being mixed up in one bill, especially when, as in the present case, they had no connexion with each other. The clause respecting arrest on mesne process ought to be struck out and discussed by itself.Mr. Bright
 said, he would take that opportunity of putting a question to the hon. and learned member for Clare, with respect to the course he intended to pursue as to the two petitions of which he had given notice on the subject of the Borrisokane trials. These petitions referred to the course which he had pursued on the trials arising out of that transaction. The hon. and learned Member's notice had stood on the books for some time, and was now further postponed. At nearly two o'clock the preceding morning, as he found from the votes, the notice for presenting the petitions was withdrawn, and no day was fixed for bringing them before the House. Under these circumstances, he should wish to know from the hon. and learned Member whether he was to understand that he was to banish the subject altogether from his mind, for it was extremely unpleasant to have a matter of this kind hanging over him. He wished to know now what course the hon. and learned Member intended to take.Mr. Doherty
833 said, that he could have no objection to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, on the subject of the state of business in the House. He, for one, had no objection that the public business—the fixed business—the Orders of the Day or motions—should commence at an earlier hour—say seven o'clock—but that it should also close at a much earlier hour than it did at present—he would suggest twelve o'clock, which he thought was late enough. It was impossible that even the most powerful constitutions should not feel exhausted by the very late hours to which debates were protracted night after night. He would mention, for instance,
833Mr. Hume
 protested against this manner of disposing of the Question. When the Government and the Legislature undertook to protect different interests, the public was sure to suffer. He wished to see the public protected, and he recommended that the duty on sugar should be reduced, which might be done without injury to the Revenue, and would give time to investigate the matter thoroughly, so as to lead to some permanent measure. He wished the people to understand what the Colonies cost them, and if the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman would not bring forward their Question, he should not We sorry if they obtained no relief.Mr. Hume
824823822821820819 presented a Petition from certain owners and occupiers of land in the neighbourhood of Rochester, in the county of Kent, which was, he observed, of a very important nature. It related to the subject of Tithes, and therefore interested, not merely the petitioners, but all persons in the community. On this account it was certainly worthy the serious attention of the House. A very great change had taken place in the minds of men, of late years, with respect to this subject, as the hon. Baronet near him, who was present at a public
824823822821820819Mr. Hume
l. presented a Petition from persons confined for Debt in the Borough Gaol of Liverpool, against Imprisonment for Debt. The hon. Member admitted, that the clause in the Attorney General's bill, which restricted arrests on mesne process to sums of 100l.Mr. Hume
 could not see anything delicate in the question, and certainly clergymen never had any delicacy in the collection of their Tithes. No body of men in the country were more indelicate than the clergy. They had no scruple in exciting ill-will, and took one-third, and not one-tenth, of the property of the country with the greatest coolness. They had certain duties attached to their situations, which they swore to discharge, and when they did not discharge those duties, they were guilty of a fraud, and received money upon false pretences. He wanted to see the Church of England put upon the same footing as the Church of Scotland, and then he should be satisfied. To the hon. Baronet, the member for Oxford, he should only reply, that if he did not like discussions of this sort upon petitions he (Mr. Hume) was quite ready to fix an open day for bringing the subject forward upon regular motion.Mr. Hume
 stated, that he had not brought forward his motion, in the hope that the measure would be brought forward by the Attorney General. He concurred in the expectation of his hon. and learned friend, that this great and important question would be brought under the consideration of the House.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 supported the prayer of the petition, and bore testimony to the sufferings of the petitioners. They were obliged to work sixteen hours a day, and that was not enough to obtain them the means of subsistence. It was a mistake to suppose that any improvement had taken place in the silk trade; and the petitioners complained, with justice, of the foreign competition and high price of provisions against which they had to contend.Mr. Fyler
854853852l.l.l.l.l.l.l.851850valeat quantum,849l.l.848 observed, that this was not the first time this question had been discussed in Parliament, and that he had had the honour and the satisfaction of supporting the propositions of his right hon. friend, when opposed upon grounds somewhat similar to those taken on the present occasion. His noble friend who had just sat down had, however, very considerably narrowed those grounds; but although he thought he could refute those grounds, it was by no means upon them alone that he rested his advocacy of the present Motion. He begged to call the attention of the
854853852l.l.l.l.l.l.l.851850valeat quantum,849l.l.848Mr. Spring Rice
832 wished to know what course his right hon. friend intended to take with respect to the resolutions which had been
832Mr. C. W. Wynn
 protested against that House being made a court of appeal for the reconsideration of cases already decided by the competent authorities.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 thought that the bill was a private bill and required notice to be given to all the parties interested.Mr. Wynn
835, referring to what had fallen from his right hon. friend (Sir Robert Peel) respecting his motion on the state of the West-India Colonists,—namely, that no practical good could be expected to result from its introduction at so late a period of the Session,—observed that it was not in his power to have brought it forward earlier. He was sensible of its urgency, but the state of business had been such that he had no option. He wished, however, that it might be understood that he was not a volunteer on the occasion. He and his noble friend (the Marquis of Chandos) had been selected twelve months ago by the West-India Colonists to represent their interests to that House. They had made themselves acquainted with the subject, having got
835Mr. K. Douglas
 said, if he understood his right hon. friend correctly, he undertook for the Government that it would examine into the Question, admitting that the West-India interest was in a state of difficulty and distress; that he would make an investigation, and be prepared, before the next Session of Parliament, to notify to the West-India interest the views of the Government after such investigation. Being perfectly satisfied that the Government would undertake the inquiry with sincerity and determination, he should find it his duty to accede to the proposition of his right hon. friend.Mr. K. Douglas
 thought, that much of the time of the House might be saved if hon. Members, in presenting petitions which related to bills before the House, would abstain from making any remarks on them until the proper time arrived for the discussion. Much of the time of the House was consumed in desultory observations which led to no result. He was aware that he spoke this with a bad grace, as he should have to occupy the House at some length on the subject of the petition which he should have to present on Thursday; but there was a difference between that and the ordinary run of petitions relating to bills—for the subject which he should bring forward was one to which the House could not immediately apply a remedy; though great benefit, which he expected would be the case, might arise from the discussion of it. In the other cases, however, much time might be saved, and greater facilities given to the despatch of the general business of the House, if desultory remarks were avoided.Mr. Huskisson
ad valoremad valorem838 expressed his satisfaction at the matter being left in the hands of Government, as it was both able to investigate the subject thoroughly and apply a practical remedy. He begged leave, however, to call the attention of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the state of overwhelming distress in which the West-Indies were involved, and to ask if some practical remedy might not be found in equalizing the duties on sugar. At present the duties pressed most unequally, because they were the same on the finest as on the coarsest sugars. He was perfectly aware of the difficulties of the subject, but still he thought it might be possible to levy an
ad valoremad valorem838Sir A. Grant
 said, that there was no body of men who discharged their duties more conscientiously than the clergy of the Established Church, as far as he was acquainted with their character. He denied that the petition agreed to at Penenden-heath expressed the sense of the county of Kent on the subject of Tithes. If the Tithe-system required amelioration, there was a bill before Parliament to effect that object, and it would be more appropriate to take the discussion on that bill, than upon the presentation of a petition.Sir E. Knatchbull
837 said, that the proposition made by his hon. friend was different from that made by his noble friend who had just spoken. His noble friend said, that Government must give a pledge to bring forward some measure of relief; but he put it to his noble friend, if it were either the interest or the duty of Ministers to pledge themselves to any specific measures. If his noble friend reflected for a moment, he would see the propriety of Government being sparing in its pledges, and slow to contract engagements, but careful to fulfil all those it contracted. If he were unable to pledge the Government to any measures of relief, he could assure his noble friend it was not from want of consideration of the West-India interest, but from a wish not to enter into engagements which it might be impossible to fulfil. He was convinced, unfortunately, of the depression of the West-India interest, but he did not see how any measures could be undertaken for its relief during the present Session. His hon. friend, who had spoken before his noble friend, seemed content to acquiesce in the recommendation that Government should take the matter into its consideration. He would so far pledge the Government, that
837Sir Robert Peel
834 observed, that the suggestion which he had made did not refer to the convenience of Ministers more than to that of other Members. Considering the business to be done, he did not think, if the House sat the whole year, and transacted public business only from seven to twelve each evening, that the time would be sufficient to get through it. To fix the latter hour as that of adjournment each day would often be attended with great inconvenience. It would occasion frequent adjourned debates, which would render the bringing forward any business fixed for the following day as uncertain as at present, when so many matters stood for the same evening. For instance, if the debate of last night, which lasted till nearly three o'clock, had been adjourned at twelve o'clock, it would have been found much more inconvenient than
834Sir Robert Peel
 replied, that the public interest required that some steps should be taken in that case; but in the present state of public business in the House, he hardly knew what day to name for taking the resolutions into consideration, with any hope that they could be brought forward at a reasonable hour. Indeed, such was the state in which the public business now stood, that he felt it would be necessary to introduce some measure for regulating it in the next Session. It was now half-past seven, and that which, properly speaking, was the public business of the evening,—he meant the motions or orders of the day,—had not been commenced, owing to the number of petitions, and the discussions which took place on them. He did not lay the blame on any person, or say that those petitions should not be presented and considered, but some arrangement must be made, by which the fixed business of the day should be brought forward at an early hour. With respect to the case of Sir Jonah Barrington, to which his right hon. friend had referred, he thought it would be extremely inconvenient, and not consistent with what was due to the public interest, to postpone it to the next, or delay it to a very late period in the present Session. Under these circumstances, and considering the state of other business in the House, he thought they should be justified in departing from their ordinary course, and fix it for an early hour on Saturday. He would say, to meet at two o'clock on that day, in order that they might be able to get through it, with the understanding that they should take no other business on that day.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that as he had not yet heard the terms of the reference to the committee, it was hard for him to answer the question of his noble friend. While he could not say that the Government were altogether prepared to resist the motion, yet he must put it to his noble friend and to the hon. mover, whether any public advantage could result from the appointment of such a committee at this late period of the Session. He thought it, too, well worthy their consideration, whether much public inconvenience might not arise from such a committee making recommendations which there was no chance of their being able to carry through Parliament in the present Session. He could assure his noble friend that the Government were deeply impressed with the importance of the subject, and that they felt much that distress which it was understood existed in the West India colonies.Sir R. Peel
 said, he expected the bill would come down to-morrow or Thursday. He had been in the country for some days and was not precisely aware of what progress had been made in preparing the Bill. He believed, however, that it would be brought down on Thursday, and if it were not, any hon. Member might originate a motion upon the subject.Sir Robert Peel
 differed from the hon. Member who had just sat down, and thought the clause respecting arrest was very properly admitted into a bill the professed object of which was to improve the administration of justice. With respect to the proposed measure of his hon. and learned friend, he begged also to express his regret that his hon. and learned friend had not contented himself with repealing at once that act which was a disgrace to our Statute-book, instead of accompanying the repeal with another measure of questionable propriety.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
845l.l.d.s.l.d.l.l.s.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.844843842"Sir:—The Lord Lieutenant has received from the Board of First Fruits, a memorial, in which they state, that you acting for yourself and the other patentees of the office of First Fruits, have since the month of May last, uniformly contrived to refuse, from the Archbishops and Bishops who have been appointed by the Crown, and from the several beneficed Clergymen, who have been instituted or entitled to institution since that time, the First Fruits payable by a valuation upon the records and books now remaining in the Court of Exchequer, upon the pretence of certain powers vested in you, by your patent; and as it appears that you have been put in the possession of the opinion of the Attorney General, in which he states the course pursued by you to be not justified by law, I have received the Lord Lieutenant's commands to desire that you will no longer oppose obstacles to the due institution of the several Clergy concerned, or continue by your refusal to receive the First Fruits, to impair the fund committed to the charge of the board.""Dublin Castle, 20th January, 1823.841l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.840l.l.l.l.l.l.s.839 rose to bring forward a Motion that would make a large Revenue, that was once at the disposal of the Crown, and had been appropriated by it for the service of the Church of Ireland, but much misapplied, again effective to the public service. He had brought forward, in 1808, a motion similar to the present, and it was then rejected by a majority of 17. He had again submitted the subject to the House in 1824, and then it had been negatived by a majority of only 12.
845l.l.d.s.l.d.l.l.s.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.844843842"Sir:—The Lord Lieutenant has received from the Board of First Fruits, a memorial, in which they state, that you acting for yourself and the other patentees of the office of First Fruits, have since the month of May last, uniformly contrived to refuse, from the Archbishops and Bishops who have been appointed by the Crown, and from the several beneficed Clergymen, who have been instituted or entitled to institution since that time, the First Fruits payable by a valuation upon the records and books now remaining in the Court of Exchequer, upon the pretence of certain powers vested in you, by your patent; and as it appears that you have been put in the possession of the opinion of the Attorney General, in which he states the course pursued by you to be not justified by law, I have received the Lord Lieutenant's commands to desire that you will no longer oppose obstacles to the due institution of the several Clergy concerned, or continue by your refusal to receive the First Fruits, to impair the fund committed to the charge of the board.""Dublin Castle, 20th January, 1823.841l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.840l.l.l.l.l.l.s.839Sir John Newport
 said, the petitioner had received so high a character from persons of the greatest respectability, that he thought his case ought to be reconsidered, at least the papers connected with the case ought to be produced to the House.Lord Clements
 said, that since a part of his hon. and learned friend's measure would effect all that he proposed to do, he felt that he should not be justified in refusing to resign the matter into such hands. At the same time he must express his deep regret that his hon. and learned friend had not contented himself with simply repealing this disgraceful act; for with respect to the accompanying measure which his hon. and learned friend had now explained, he could look upon it only in one light—he could consider it only as another restriction on the liberty of the press. This was his present impression; and if, on consideration, he saw nothing to induce him to alter the opinion he now expressed, he should certainly move, when they went into a committee on the Attorney General's Bill, that the whole of it should be struck out, except that part of it which repealed the act of George 3rd.Lord Morpeth
 withdrew his Motion.Lord Morpeth
 said, that as he had already postponed this motion at the request of his hon. and learned friend, he thought he should be justified in calling upon his hon. and learned friend to state more explicitly the nature of the accompanying measure before he acceded to the suggestion now made to him.Lord Morpeth
868 said, that the Returns of men killed in affrays alone would not be sufficient, for several had been shot in endeavouring to escape; and in order to meet those cases he had put in the word "otherwise." For the same reason, it was important to know the nature of the warrants that were to have been executed. As he found the Government were disposed to meet the question fairly, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Motion now, and bring it forward again to-morrow, amended by the suggestions of the hon. and learned Gen-
868Mr. O'Counell
 said, the Resolution was prejudging the question. Perhaps the bill for abolishing the Local Jurisdictions might not pass.Sir C. Wetherell
 did not intend by the Resolution to prejudice the question at all. He only wanted, according to the recommendation of the commissioners, to bring the whole matter before the House at once.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he represented the largest county in the Principality, and there was in that county but one feeling on the matter, and that was favourable to the bill.Sir C. Cole
 protested against any one being pledged by the Resolution, as he himself was against the very principle of compensation in such a case. No man could have a vested right in an abuse. A public system ought only to continue while it worked well for the public.Mr. O'Connell
 reminded the hon. Member, that some of these Judges had been appointed for life.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
: And one of them especially, as a reward for past public services. He asked the right hon. Gentleman whether the compensation was to be bestowed on all, whatever might have been the terms of their appointments?Sir C. Cole
: Certainly not.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
867 in pursuance of the notice he
867Mr. O'Connell,
 said, that there was no objection on the part of the Government to give the hon. and learned Gentleman the Returns which would effect the object he had in view; and when the question came before the House he should be prepared to give his opinion upon it. It seemed to him that there were some objections to the terms of the Motion, which, as now framed, would not bring the intended question fairly before the House. He therefore proposed that the Returns should be of the persons who had lost their lives, or were wounded, in affrays with the Police since its establishment, distinguishing what inquests had been held, and what were the verdicts on those inquests—what bills of indictment had been framed, and how they had been disposed of; and also a Return of the Constables killed in such affrays within the same period. Such a Return would fairly raise the question. He begged to be permitted to express his deep regret, and that of the Government, for the fatal occurrences which had taken place, and their anxious wish to prevent their recurrence.Mr. Doherty
 was convinced that these returns would not show that proper precaution was used by the police, who were armed in an improper manner. In one; district several of them were furnished with rifles, and it appeared from some circum- stances which had come to his knowledge, that they were very ready to use their arms. A party of them was sent some time ago to arrest some fellows, and apprehensive of their escape they fired at them as men would hunt out and fire at wild beasts. He blamed the policemen, however, much less than those who instructed and commanded them.Mr. Jephson
 was of opinion, that every hon. Member should be responsible for the petitions which he presented. Such petitions as that which had just been referred to were calculated to bring petitions in general into disrepute.Mr. Alderman Waithman
900 said, he was very glad to find the important subject of the new States of South America brought under discussion, though he should rather have seen it come before the House in a substantive form, than be brought on from presenting a petition. He believed that there was no question more important than this to the whole commerce of Great Britain. The country was alive in every part, and busy in petitioning against the West-India Monopoly, the East-India Company's Charter, and various other things; but the subject then before the House exceeded in importance all these questions in reference to the commerce of the country. It was impossible to overstate the consequences of this subject to the best interests of this country. It had been stated by his right hon. friend, and in that he concurred, that the interests of this country were involved in maintaining the independence of the new States of America. The probability, as had been stated, that Great Britain might not have free access to the Gulf of Mexico, unless a balance of power were preserved in that
900Mr. Baring
904 admitted, that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) had clearly established the fact that this country was not under an obligation to interfere, as far as the declarations of Mr. Canning were concerned. There could be no question that an armament fitted out by Colombia, composed of blacks, officered by blacks, and bearing a proclamation which called on the slave-population of Cuba to rise against their masters, was one which the Government of this country could not view with indifference, and that Mr. Canning consulted the interests of England, when
904Lord J. Russell
905 said, that if the merchants of London had not pressed the case on the attention of the Government by petition, like their brethren of Liverpool, it was not because they did not feel less sensibly the evils of the present situation of affairs, and the strong and urgent necessity of some immediate interference on the part of this country. They had not, however, been wholly silent—they had repeatedly pressed the case on the attention of his Majesty's Ministers, and they received repeated assurances that Spain had been urged to come to an arrangement on the subject. That they were not inattentive to the state of those provinces of South America might be gathered from the circumstance, that there were at least twenty-six millions of the capital of British merchants embarked at this moment in the trade of those countries, and dependent on their welfare. It was well known, indeed, that the merchants of this country had no better market for their goods, and that there was no better remunerating trade than that carried on with Mexico. He rejoiced, therefore, in the prospect of something being done to put an end to the interference of Mexico with Cuba, or of Cuba with Mexico, for nothing could be more pernicious to British interests
905Mr. Alderman Thompson
 thought Mr. Eyre Lee ought to be severely reprimanded. He had connected himself with a person of notoriously bad character.Colonel Davies
 then rose, and said, that in deference to the opinion of those whom he had consulted on the subject, he would vary the terms of the Motion of which he had given notice, and instead of moving that Mr. Lee be heard by his Counsel, he would move that he be heard in person; and he would therefore now move, that Mr. Thomas Eyre Lee be called to the Bar for that purpose.Lord Clive
 contended, that the error of Mr. Lee had arisen from the laxity with which the Standing Orders of the House were attended to, and as a measure was to be brought forward, in order to prevent a recurrence of the practice, he did not see any necessity of pressing a vote of censure.Lord Clive
911 observed, that the committee, of which he was a member, was perfectly justified in the two first clauses of its Report, which stated that the subscription-list had been fraudulently made out and deposited. The question was, how far Mr. Lee was culpable. This list was attested by Mr. Lee on the 23rd of February. On the 9th of February Mr. Lee had been fully warned of the incorrectness of the List On the 10th of February Mr. Morgan had showed him that the names on the list were fraudulent; and on the 22nd of February, the day before he attested that list, he had said, "I shall soon ascertain whether the persons on that list are proper persons or not." Before the committee he had been warned by the hon. member for Stafford, that the
911Colonel Peel
l. maintained, that the question was of a serious nature, and concerned the character of the House and the interest as well as the morality of the public. Mr. Lee had made a defence upon the ground of his ignorance, and yet he was the person who introduced the question, and he came forward as a responsible person for a projected company which was to raise on the public 450,000l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 having finished his defence, was ordered to withdraw.Mr. Lee
 said, the question really was, whether Mr. Eyre Lee had a guilty knowledge of these transactions which had been blamed by the Committee? He thought he had not, and he came to this conclusion after a detailed examination of the evidence, and particularly that of Mr. Kendal. He did not consider Mr. Kendal worthy of credit, and he remarked that he had been exasperated by Mr. Lee's refusing him 152. He admitted there was a want of caution in Mr. Lee, and something of even a culpable negligence, but he asked why this gentleman should be punished for an inadvertence as if it were a crime? He was decidedly of opinion that Mr. Lee did not deserve the reprimand of the House.Mr. Slaney
916 said, that if there were anything in the evidence laid before them which could warrant the House in adopting the second resolution, then he had not the slightest difficulty in saying, that merely reprimanding Mr. Eyre Lee would be a very inadequate punishment; but as he was of opinion that the evidence did not justify the House in arriving at the conclusion set forth in that resolution, so he was not one of those who was prepared to say that any punishment beyond an admonition ought to be inflicted; and he was not quite sure that the House ought to go even that length. It should be remembered that the House had not seen any one of the witnesses upon whose testimony it was sought to establish the alleged delinquency of Mr. E. Lee. They must recollect the whole of this testimony was given to them at second hand. He did not mean to deny the power or the right of the House—it was fully supported by precedents—to decide upon evidence taken before another tribunal; but he would beseech of them to pause before they adopted a resolution condemnatory of a gentleman circumstanced as Mr. Eyre Lee was—before they robbed a hitherto respectable professional gentleman of his character, on evidence at least only second hand—not on evidence, but on minutes of evidence taken before a committee. It had frequently been said, that the proceedings in our civil-law courts were most unsatisfactory; and that mode of proceeding was found in Scotland so inconvenient, that it was proposed to adopt the jury system rather than continue the evil of having one court arrive at a decision founded upon testimony given in another. Now in this country it was Parliament alone that received evidence at second hand, and it was, therefore, that he thought Parliament was especially bound to exercise a caution beyond other courts. The resolution charged, that a false and
916Mr. Brougham
903902l.l.l.l.l.l.l.901l. proceeded to say, that he should not have risen to trouble the House, except for the purpose of enforcing the great importance of this subject, with which the mass of the country gentlemen were but little acquainted. It, however, they would cast their eyes over the exports of this country, they would see at once that the new States of America consumed our manufactures to the amount of 9,000,000903902l.l.l.l.l.l.l.901l.Mr. A. Baring
l.912 said, it had been whispered, rather than stated, that he had shewn a more than usual degree of activity in the part he had taken in this committee, of which he had accidentally become a member. He appealed to the committee whether that insinuation were true, and whether he had exhibited an uncommon degree of recollection of what had passed on a previous occasion when Mr. Lee himself had been a petitioner to this House. The question before the House was, not whether this company was or was not a bubble company, but whether Mr. Lee was acquainted with the fact of its being so before the 11th of March. That was the question put by Mr. Lee himself, who denied that he knew before that time that any person in that list was either unable or unwilling to make up his subscription. Now, in answer to that, he (Mr. Harvey) thought he could show that Mr. Lee was conversant with the character of that list before the 20th of February. On the 10th of February, the active author of the company, Mr. Levi, was dead, and at that time, in consequence of being informed of
l.912Mr. Harvey
 said, that in many instances, where returns were called for, copies were printed of an entire series, when, in fact, a continuation of the documents already printed was alone necessary. There should be some office where Members might easily ascertain what documents were already laid before Parliament.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he knew the petitioner Ryan, and he was really astonished that a man so discreet should have drawn up such a petition, but there were some points in it connected with the Grand Jury system in Ireland, a system which was loudly exclaimed against by almost every person in that country, which deserved attention, although coupled with matter that ought to have been omitted.Mr. O'Connell
 said, his object was to discuss the merits of the system, not the faults of individuals. He knew of one attack made by the peasantry on a police barrack, but that was in 1822, when the south of Ireland was almost in a state of insurrection. At that very time, however, the peasantry behaved with great kindness towards the regular troops, avoiding to attack them, and even succouring them after a rencontre with themselves. If the returns answered his expectations he should be able to prove that more individuals had fallen by the hands of the police than by the sword of the law, and to make out a case that called for the interference of Parliament. He did not believe that such a force was necessary for Ireland, unless it were necessary to keep up irritation, and occasionally shed blood. The whole country was in fact tranquil, except that now and then there was an affray with the police constables; as that body was constituted, instead of preserving peace it provoked disorder and riot.Mr. O'Connell
870 to move for the returns of the numbers killed and wounded in affrays with the police in Ireland, in the shape proposed by the hon. and learned Solicitor General. He was glad to see that hon. Gentleman in his place, as he would be able to contradict a report that had been circulated in the county of Clare. In a letter he had that morning received it was stated that persons had been fired at by the police because they did not immediately stand when challenged. A boy was shot through the back, and died instantly. In vindication of this barbarous act, the police alleged that they had received orders to fire on all persons found out at night who did not immediately give an account of themselves. He trusted that no such orders had been given, which in Ireland would be most cruel and would inevitably lead to much bloodshed. The hon. Member concluded by moving for the following returns: "Of the number of persons who have lost their lives in affrays or otherwise by the Constabulary in Ireland in each year since the formation of that body; specifying the place where homicide occurred, and also the nature of the warrant, if any, which the Constabulary had to execute at the time of such homicide; and also stating what was in each case the verdict of the coroner's inquest, and in which of those cases bills of indictment were preferred and the manner in which the same were disposed
870Mr. O'Connell rose
 did not consider that wilful falsehood had been established against Mr. Lee, but he thought him guilty of culpable neglect, not of innocent neglect. He said the list was a correct list, without knowing it to be so, when it was his business to possess that knowledge.Mr. O'Connell
 declared that he would persist in his Motion.Mr. E. Davenport
873 presented a Petition from Mr. James Thick, of Cloudesley
873Mr. E. Davenport
 said, that as the statements contained in the Petition were very important, he would move "that it be printed."Mr. E. Davenport
 would be glad if some rule were laid down, by which Gentlemen might judge of what petitions were, and what were not, fit to be printed.Mr. E. Davenport
 supported the Motion.Mr. Lawley
 also complimented the right hon. Gentleman on the statesmanlike manner in which he had explained the course of policy this country was bound to follow with reference to the South American States, and expressed his conviction, that if remonstrance failed, we were bound to go to war to prevent the continuance of that system which Spain and America were pursuing. He was convinced, indeed, that if the States of North America were not stopped in their course of aggrandizement, that they would soon absorb the whole of South America. Mexico, it should be recollected, was of the greatest importance to this country. It was the great fountain of mineral wealth; and when it was remembered how materially the supply of the precious metals affected the prices of all commodities, he thought the advantage of preserving that country could not be too highly estimated.Mr. Bright
 said, that in the part of the country where he resided the police maintained order without having recourse to fire-arms.Mr. James Grattan
871 deprecated such a discussion, particularly as the law was open to those who had been injured. The fact was, that the spirit of hostility against the police on the part of the peasantry was so
871Mr. Doherty
 thought it unnecessary to state that no such orders as those referred to by the hon. Member could have been given, and he could affirm from his own experience that the Government of Ireland was anxious that the policemen should do their duty so as to offend and injure the people the least possible. With respect to the returns moved for, he had no objection to their being produced, as he was desirous of having the subject of the Irish police calmly and dispassionately discussed. For himself, however, he must say, it was his decided opinion that such a force as the police was necessary for Ireland. He doubted if the returns could be made correctly, but such as could be procured he was prepared to consent to their being laid on the Table.Mr. Doherty
917 observed, there was no denying that the gentleman in question had been guilty of hasty, inadvertent, and improvident answering, and that was what the House could not overlook—yet, if the second resolution were true, the House should not content itself with a reprimand,
917Mr. John Williams
 said, a noble Lord, high in office, was in correspondence with that very individual who had been described of notoriously bad character to whom the last speaker alluded, and received from him several presents and wrote him friendly letters, three of which he (Mr. W.) then had in his possession; so that Mr. Eyre Lee was not the only person deceived in the character of Mr. Moses Levi. There were in this matter three degrees of guilt: first, the concoctors of the scheme; second, those by whom it was adopted when abandoned by its authors; third, but at a great distance, came Mr. Eyre Lee, who was imposed on by the other parties. It was originally not a bubble company—that was evident; and Mr. Eyre Lee, instead of a severe reprimand, might, he thought, be dismissed with an admonition, for others were more guilty than he was.Mr. John Wood
 thought, this animosity was a proof that the system was a bad one, and he should look at the Returns and attend to the inquiry which he hoped would take place, with considerable interest.Mr. Hume
 was in favour of printing petitions and returns, from which much information was derived. They ought not to be so squeamish about a few pounds laid out in this manner, when, night after night, they voted thousands of pounds for less worthy purposes.Mr. Hume
 contended, that nothing which Mr. Lee had said had altered the case, and he moved "That Thomas Eyre Lee, Solicitor of the London and Birmingham Canal, had deposited in the Private Bill-office of that House a list of subscribers to that Canal, and which list had been attested by him, and that the said list was false and culpably deposited; that Mr. Lee had therein been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House, and that he be called to the bar of the House and reprimanded."Mr. Benson
909908 said, that since he had given his notice upon this subject, a Petition had been presented by a noble Lord
909908Mr. Benson
 concurred in the views and opinions of the hon. Member who had last spoken.Mr. Fyler
915 said, Mr. Lee's conduct deserved the censure of the House, although it did not deserve many of the terms which were applied to it. If this gentleman possessed a guilty knowledge of the fallacious nature of this list, the censure of the House would be a poor and inadequate punishment. Offenders like him, were he guilty, should be committed to Newgate, and confined there for a considerable time. He must, however, acquit him of this guilty knowledge, and he considered his offence was not so much in depositing the original list, as in persisting in it after his attention had been drawn to the nature of it. He did not think Mr. Kendal's evidence wholly unworthy of credit, for it was corroborated by other
915Mr. C. W. Wynn
875 said, if the Gentle-
875Mr. C. W. Wynn
*886885884883882881880879878"The fall of the castle of Saint Juan de Ulloa, which capitulated on the 18th day of last month, cannot fail to have a powerful effect within that kingdom (Spain). We are informed that when information of it reached the Havannah, it produced great and general sensation, and that the local government immediately despatched a fast-sailing vessel to Cadiz to communicate the event, and, in its name, to implore the King immediately to terminate the war, and acknowledge the new republics, as the only means of preserving Cuba to the monarchy.""The success of the enterprise is by no means improbable. Their (Colombia and Mexico) proximity to the Islands (Cuba and Porto Rico), and their armies being perfectly acclimated, will give to the united efforts of the republics great advantages. And if with these be taken into the estimate, the important and well-known fact, that a large proportion of the inhabitants of the island is predisposed to a separation from Spain, and would therefore form a powerful auxiliary to the republican arms, their success becomes almost certain."877876 to present a Petition, of which he had given notice on a former occasion. It was upon a subject of great interest, and was connected with the well-being and interests of an important class of the community. He trusted that this would afford some apology for him if he ventured to detain the House longer than was usual, or generally speaking, acceptable, upon the presentation of petitions. The Petition was that of the merchants resident in the town of Liverpool who had dealings and commercial intercourse with the state of Mexico; and he believed that the sentiments expressed in it were entertained by those individuals of Glasgow, Manchester, and London, whose manufacturing or commercial pursuits gave them an equal interest in the condition of the new States of America. The Petition stated, that since Mexico became an independent state, its trade with this country had increased, and it was susceptible, under favourable circumstances, of a still greater increase. However, that trade had unfortunately been exposed to various interruptions, losses, and uncertainties, in consequence of occasional military enterprises undertaken against Mexico from Cuba. They had been the cause of interruption to commerce, of considerable disorders in Mexico, and of expense and loss, which fell mainly upon neutral commerce,—indeed, upon the commerce of his Majesty's subjects, who had embarked their capital on the faith of solemn treaties. The Petition also stated, that last summer an expedition was despatched from Cuba, which entailed great losses upon British subjects, and the petitioners had reason to believe that other expeditions of a similar nature were fitting out. Of the importance of the subject there could not be two opinions, when we looked at the actual population
*886885884883882881880879878"The fall of the castle of Saint Juan de Ulloa, which capitulated on the 18th day of last month, cannot fail to have a powerful effect within that kingdom (Spain). We are informed that when information of it reached the Havannah, it produced great and general sensation, and that the local government immediately despatched a fast-sailing vessel to Cadiz to communicate the event, and, in its name, to implore the King immediately to terminate the war, and acknowledge the new republics, as the only means of preserving Cuba to the monarchy.""The success of the enterprise is by no means improbable. Their (Colombia and Mexico) proximity to the Islands (Cuba and Porto Rico), and their armies being perfectly acclimated, will give to the united efforts of the republics great advantages. And if with these be taken into the estimate, the important and well-known fact, that a large proportion of the inhabitants of the island is predisposed to a separation from Spain, and would therefore form a powerful auxiliary to the republican arms, their success becomes almost certain."877876Mr. Huskisson rose
907906, in moving that it be printed, took occasion to express the pleasure with which he listened to the language of his right hon. friend (Sir R. Peel), with respect to these States; and declared his cordial concurrence in all that he had uttered. Referring to the letter which Mr. Canning had written to Mr. Dawkins, when he set out to attend the Congress of Panama, he was quite ready to admit according to its language that he had laid no express interdict on the invasion of Cuba, by Mexico and Colombia; but yet it was impossible for any one who knew anything of diplomatic expressions to be ignorant of the meaning which must be attached to the declaration, that the Government viewed with pain and regret the nature of the meditated invasion, and that it could
907906Mr. Huskisson
 suggested that, in the first instance the Order of the Day should be read for the further consideration of the Report of the Committee.Mr. Speaker
910 informed him that the House had resolved he should be heard on the subject matter of his Petition.910Mr. Speaker
 contended, it was not right to treat this canal speculation as a bubble scheme; and that he did not think it was the intention of the committee to pass such a resolution as might induce the House to decide upon severely reprimanding Mr. E. Lee. The character of Mr. Lee was excellent, and he believed that he was negligent, but not criminal.Sir Henry Parnell
914l.Here a considerable interruption occurred, and the hon. Baronet, turning sharply round, demanded913 said, that the voluminous evidence taken before the committee was more calculated to mislead than to enlighten the House, and putting the question on the same point as the hon. Member who had just sat down, he came to a directly opposite conclusion. The hon. Baronet read the evidence of a person named Kendall, who began by stating, that Mr. Lee had promised him the office of private secretary to the Company, and who then went on to speak to conversation between himself and Mr. Lee, which, he said, had occurred in the presence of Mr. Robson. Now, in the first place, Mr. Robson had not been called to confirm these statements, and in the next, Kendall's evidence was totally incredible, because he spoke of having been promised an office which never existed in a canal company, and if he meant by secretary, the official manager of the company, he
914l.Here a considerable interruption occurred, and the hon. Baronet, turning sharply round, demanded913Sir J. Wrottesley
 observed, that a considerable saving might be effected, not only with respect to the printing of petitions, but with reference to the printing of returns, many of which were useless; for example, a document had lately been laid before Parliament, consisting of 270 folio pages, which contained nothing else than the names of individuals, without one scrap of information concerning them. The document related to the burning of Hindoo widows.Sir M. W. Ridley
874 subsequently observed that his attention had been drawn to a petition presented on the 14th of May, from Thomas Ryan, of Thurles, in the county of Tipperary, and it was spread over three pages of the votes of Parliament. The printing of that petition cost at least three guineas, and the greater part of it was perfectly ridiculous. The petitioner among other things called on the Ministry, and a "better never directed the empire," to request of the Earl of Glengall to come over to his country and audit the county accounts one month at least previous to the Assizes, and entered into a variety of wild and extravagant matter. Now, he did not mean to contend that in no case should the petition of an individual be printed, but he certainly thought that the public
874Sir R. Peel
 said, he thought it right to print petitions emanating from large bodies of men, but he would not encourage the printing of petitions coming from individuals. It was quite proper to receive them, but the printing of them stood on other and very distinct grounds. As the hon. member was a friend to economy, he hoped on that account, though the expense was trifling, that he would not press his Motion.Sir R. Peel
 said, he could give the hon. and gallant Member a very satisfactory answer. It was well known that a blockade of Algiers had for some time been undertaken by a French squadron: and, when it became notorious that France was fitting out a very considerable expedition against that place, the British Government thought it right to despatch a frigate to remove the wives and children of British subjects from Algiers, in order that they might not be present during the siege. The British frigate arrived there, and took on board all the women and children, except the wife of the Consul, who was unable to leave the place in consequence of illness, and could not therefore, take advantage of the opportunity. On leaving Algiers a communication took place between the captain of the British ship of war, and the officer who had the chief command of the French blockade flotilla. That individual intimated a doubt to the commander of the British frigate, whether he could, consistently with his instructions, permit him to return to take away the wife of the British consul; but he said that he would state the circumstance to his Admiral, and ask his orders. The instructions, in all cases of blockade, were, he believed, the same; but it was customary to admit exceptions in the case of packets, and certain ships of friendly nations. Previously, however, to the French Admiral giving his opinion on the subject, the French government itself heard of the circumstance, and immediately interfered. There was no necessity for making any further application, as the French government stated at once that the officer had misconstrued his instructions, and that there was not the least intention of interrupting the usual system which prevailed between friendly nations. Even before the British Government had sent the ship of war to remove the women and children to this country, the French government had taken measures to secure the safety of all Europeans in Algiers.Sir R. Peel
 did not object to printing petitions as a general principle, but to printing any nonsense which an individual might choose to call a petition to that House.Sir Robert Peel
 interposed to explain, that the hon. Member had misunderstood him. What he said was, that there never was a time when Spain and this country were on more friendly terms than at present. From this circumstance he inferred the greater probability of a satisfactory settlement.Sir R. Peel
894893892891No, no," from Sir R. Wilson.890889888887Sept.*Sept.* said, he felt that he should not only be excused but that he should
894893892891No, no," from Sir R. Wilson.890889888887Sept.*Sept.*Sir R. Peel
 said, the librarian would at any time give Gentlemen that information.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that though the neglect was culpable, yet, as the resolution coupled the neglect with falsehood, he should be averse from pronouncing a condemnation of that nature upon a gentleman against whom no falsehood had been proved. There seemed to be a general disposition to acquit Mr. Eyre Lee of the intended and wilful falsehood; and, therefore, he (Sir R. Peel) should acquiesce in the qualified censure, as not imputing guilty knowledge.Sir Robert Peel
899898897896895 said, that the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech had afforded him much satisfaction; but with respect to the course pursued by England in 1825 he could not entirely concur. It was certainly very generally understood, that the expedition proposed by Mexico and Colombia was abandoned in consequence of what Mr. Canning had said. Indeed, he had the best authority for knowing that Bolivar had determined on attacking Porto Rico, and that the British minister in Colombia (Mr. Cockburn) communicated to him the objections that there were to the expedition, founded on the former communication of Mr. Canning. He was able to state this positively, because he had received a communication from Bolivar himself to that effect. And so strongly did this impression prevail, that for the last two years the Colombian minister had been required to do all in his power to remove the interdict which it was presumed still existed. At length Mexico, however, determined to make the attempt,
899898897896895Sir R. Wilson
 said, he was perfectly gratified and delighted with the statement of the right hon. Secretary.Sir R. Wilson
872 said, he would take that opportunity to ask a question of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department. It was understood that a frigate had been sometime since despatched to Algiers, with a view of removing from that city the British Consul and all other British subjects resident there. When, however, the frigate arrived off the coast, the commander of the French blockading squadron, it was said, prevented the vessel from approaching Algiers, and she was obliged to proceed to Malta Now, he asked if any mode had beer adopted to carry the original intention of Government into effect, or whether the
872Sir R. Wilson
926l.l.l.l.l.s.s.l.l.l.925l.l.l.924l.l.l.l.l.l.s.923l. said, that before the Speaker left the chair, he wished to call the attention of the House to a subject which he felt was of very great importance to the revenue of the country. It appeared to him, that 30,000926l.l.l.l.l.s.s.l.l.l.925l.l.l.924l.l.l.l.l.l.s.923l.Mr. Hume
927l. said, he had no doubt that he should be able to offer a satisfactory explanation on the subject touched on in the hon. Member's speech. Indeed, he thought he might (if he felt so disposed) claim credit for presenting returns of the 4½-per-cent duties, increased considerably in point of amount. It was wrong in the hon. Member to say that the amount was concealed till it came out incidentally upon his motion for papers. The fact was, that accounts were annually laid upon the Table, in which the 4½-per-cent duties formed one of the items, and in those accounts the augmentation had appeared. The hon. Gentleman inquired the reason for deviating from the practice adopted for a great number of years, and argued as if Ministers had robbed the revenue of the country to enrich the revenue of the Crown. He argued as if the management and direction of the 4½-per-cent duties had not undergone a considerable alteration of late years; as if the Crown had not, in point of fact, abandoned its claim to them, and placed them under the control of Parliament. By the Act of the 6th of his present Majesty, it was directed that the salaries of the Bishops and clergy in the West-India islands, should in future be paid out of the 4½-per-cent duties, which were thus devoted to the payment of our colonial governors, bishops and clergy. The sum paid to the bishops and clergy amounted to 25,000927l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
928 said, if the opinion of the legal advisers of the Crown in this case were consonant with law, it was law of such a tendency, and which might be attended with such consequences in a constitutional point of view, as to render it well deserving of the serious consideration of Parliament. The position of the right hon. Gentleman appeared to be this,—that there were sugars belonging to the Crown which were brought to this country from the West-India islands, and which being the property of the Crown, were not liable according to the opinion of the law-officers of the day to pay duty. It was singular enough that nearly two centuries should have passed (during which duty was paid upon these sugars) without this notable discovery of the exemption of Crown sugars from duty having been made. Would his hon. and learned friend (the Attorney General) tell him that the Crown might import into this country merchandise free of duty for sale? Yet this was what the right hon. Gentleman's position amounted to. The principle was the same as in the present case: these sugars were admitted without payment of duty, because they were the property of the Crown. But the Crown might have purchased the sugars; that would not alter the transaction. Was the law to be laid down that the Crown could import any article as merchandise for sale in this country? He had always understood that the exemption of the Crown from the payment of taxes was for the maintenance of the royal dignity. The tax-gatherer was excluded from the palace of the Sovereign, because his entrance would be considered derogatory to the dignity of the Crown. A similar exemption was extended to the ambassadors and ministers of foreign Sovereigns, probably for nearly the same reason. It was true the King might import French wines for his own consumption, free of duty:
928Mr. Baring
929 said, there could be no moral or legal doubt that the sugars in question were exempt from duty, as being the property of the Crown. The non-payment of duties by the Crown was amongst the oldest of our law maxims. If hon. Gentlemen would only look into any one act for the imposition of taxes, they would there see that that maxim was uniformly recognised and acted on. Taxes were granted by the Commons to the Crown—they could only be granted off the property of the people—not off the property of the Crown itself. With respect to the Motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, for the production of the opinions of the law-officers of the day upon the point, he did not see the use of it. Without denying the power of the House of Commons to call for any documents whatever,—for he could suppose a a case in which it might call for a minute of the proceedings of a Cabinet Council,—he must say, it would be rather hard upon the Attorney and Solicitor-general to have their opinions, which were given in confidence to the Government, reviewed and debated in Parliament. In this particular case it could be of no importance to have the opinions of the law-officers of the Crown, and he hoped that a precedent for the production and discussion in the House of Commons of such opinions, might not be established, by agreeing to the present Motion. He could easily conceive a case in which an Attorney-general might not like to have his opinions discussed in Parliament, though this was not such a case. Whatever the hon. Member meant to do, he could accomplish as well upon the information already before him, without calling for these documents. He
929The Attorney General
 asked the Attorney General, whether the law went to such an extent, that the Crown could import merchandise for sale free of duty?Mr. Baring
 said, it might be difficult to answer the question in the abstract. The hon. Member must put a case. It was undoubtedly true that, in the time of the Henrys, when our monarchs had possessions and revenues abroad, wines were imported by the Crown free of duty, which might have been, and probably were, imported for sale.The Attorney General
 observed, that the doctrine was strange in practice if not in law, that the Crown might import commodities for sale. It might, then, become a great trader, and ruin all the merchants in the kingdom.Mr. Bernal
931Nullum Tempusl.l.l.l.l.l.930ad infinitum. said, he could not but imagine that there was some ulterior view in the alteration made by Ministers. Whether it were to get a larger sum out of the 4½-per-cent fund—a fund which was burthened with debt—whether there were pensions of which Parliament knew nothing charged upon it,—he could not tell, but he confessed the change did appear to him very suspicious. What induced the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown on the subject—what was the right hon. Gentleman's object in mooting an ancient point of law, which had lain hid for a space of 170 years? Certain charges were to be paid out of the proceeds of the 4½-per-cents; but salaries falling in, and the fund being augmented by exempting the sugars from duty, the amount would become so large as to exceed the demands upon it for the support of the church in the West Indies. What became of the surplus? In it Ministers had discovered a fund out of which they might grant new pensions and allowances 931Nullum Tempusl.l.l.l.l.l.930ad infinitum.Mr. Bright
932 said, that if Government should consent to the production of the opinions of the law-officers of the Crown in this case, he should state his conviction as a lawyer, that no Attorney or Solicitor General ought ever again to give an opinion in writing, upon any case submitted to them by the Crown. [An hon. Member asked, Why?] He would tell the hon. Member why. It had been laid down by the highest authority, that no Minister had a right to produce the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown, for the purpose of its being reviewed and discussed in that House; that that House had the right to see those opinions, he took the liberty to deny; for himself, he would not have accepted office on the servile and submissive condition of having every one of his opinions laid upon the Table of that House. The independent ground upon which office could be accepted was, an adherence to the present practice. He utterly dissented from the proposition that the House of Commons had a right to see the private and confidential advice of the law-officers of the Crown. With respect to the question of the liability of Crown property to taxation, there was no lawyer who would not at once admit that it was altogether exempt from taxation, and that these sugars might come in free of duty. If the Crown had a specific right in any thing, only an express Act of Parliament could subject it to taxation. This was the opinion which he had expressed, and he should never shrink from it. If he objected to the production of the written document, it was rather from a feeling for the hon. member for Aberdeen than for himself that he objected; because he should put the hon. Gentleman in the wrong by producing it. Of all clear propositions this was the clearest,—that the Crown was not liable to pay taxes. But if there was to be a prospective alteration of
932Sir C. Wetherell
933 concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it was not expedient in the present case for the House to call for the opinion which the learned Gentleman, when Attorney General, had delivered upon this subject. However, he did not agree with the learned Gentleman in thinking, that in no case should Parliament call for the production of opinions given by law-officers of the Crown. If there were a suspicion that they had acted under undue influence, or an imputation against them of straining a point in favour of the Crown, the law-officers would be justly liable to have their opinions called for, and their official acts investigated. But probably the learned Gentleman did not speak of such cases as these, but rather of the general rule of Parliament in ordinary cases; and in the expediency of that general rule, which was, not to demand the opinions of the Crown lawyers, he (Sir R. Peel) fully concurred. Nothing could be more convenient for Government, than to lay the opinions of its legal advisers before Parliament, and shelter itself under their sanction and authority; but such a proceeding might be fairly objected to by hon. Members opposite, on the ground that it involved an attempt to overbear the exercise of the free judgment and opinion of the House. Would the House allow the opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor General to guide it? Certainly not. He knew that in the case of a discussion on the Alien Act, a legal opinion of one of the Crown lawyers was inadvertently produced by a member of the Government, in order to show that we possessed the power of banishing aliens; and the production of this opinion being objected to, it was admitted that it was wrong to quote it, under the idea of controlling the House. It was fit that the Government should be the party to be held responsible, and that it should not be permitted to hold up the opinions of its law-officers, as a sanction to acts for which it was itself accountable.
933Sir R. Peel
"Hear," from Sir C. Wetherell. thought, that there did exist that degree of peculiarity in the present case, which had been mentioned by the right hon. Baronet as justifying the production of the opinions of the law officers of the Crown. The peculiarity consisted in the circumstance of Ministers calling for the opinion of their legal advisers, and departing from a custom in which the Crown had acquiesced for a period of 170 years. When the hon. and learned Member told them that he should think it a degradation to give, as Attorney General, an opinion which was to be subjected to the inspection of that House, the hon. and learned Member showed that he was totally unfit to hold the situation which he had formerly filled. And so much for that—["Hear," from Sir C. Wetherell.Sir J. Newport
, in explanation, called on the House to bear witness that he had never said that the law-officers ought not to be responsible to that House. The servility of which he had spoken was servility to the Minister, not to the Parliament. All he had said was, that if there had been any thing wrong, the Government ought not to cast the blame on the law-officers.Sir C. Wetherell
934 said, that he had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to have spoken exactly as he had stated he had. The hon. Baronet therefore must, he thought, have misunderstood
934The Solicitor General
 must confess, that he had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir C. Wetherell) very differently, He had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to say, that he should consider it a degradation, if an opinion of his, given as Attorney General, were canvassed in that House. With respect to the production of such opinions, he agreed that it might be sometimes attended with inconvenience, and that a special case ought to be made out to warrant the House in calling for the opinions of the law-officers. That the House under such circumstances had a right to call for the opinions of the law-officers, he took to be perfectly clear; and he thought it a monstrous doctrine to say that the law-officers were not responsible to that House. In the present case he had heard no valid objection, and he could conceive none, against the production of the opinions; and he should therefore vote for the Amendment, especially after the doctrines that had been laid down that evening.Lord Althorp
 regretted that he should have been misunderstood by so accurate a person as the noble Lord, and was sorry to be called upon to explain a second time. The hon. and learned Gentleman then repeated his former explanation.Sir C. Wetherell
 said, he had not doubted, after the explanation before given by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he had misunderstood what had fallen from that Gentleman in the course of his speech. He had only stated the fact that he had misunderstood him, because the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think it strange that the hon. Baronet had misunderstood him.Lord Althorp
l.l.l.936l.l.l.l.935 wished, after the four or five explanations that had been given, to be allowed to say a few words upon the question. He agreed with his noble friend, that the present was one of those special cases in which it was admitted that the opinions of the law-officers of the Crown might be called-for,—opinions on which was founded the departure from a
l.l.l.936l.l.l.l.935Mr. R. Gordon
 was sure the House would do him the justice to recollect, that he had not said that the law-officers or their opinions were beyond the reach and control of that House. As for instance, where there was imputation either upon the Government or upon the law-officers, the House would doubtless be justified in calling for those opinions. All that he contended for was, that grounds must be shown for the production of such documents. He could not conceive what ground there was in the present case, where the law it was admitted was consistent with the opinions given by the law-officers. He thought the hon. Member who had just sat down had shown the weakness of his cause by saying, "It is the case I want; not the opinion."Sir R. Peel
"No, no," from Sir C. Wetherell, and a cry of "Order."937 said, that in this instance a usage of sixty years standing had been departed from. If such a
"No, no," from Sir C. Wetherell, and a cry of "Order."937Mr. O'Connell
 apprehended that this diversion of money had been made in consequence of the funds for the payment of the pensions having diminished. He thought the opinion ought to be produced.Mr. Maberly
l.938l. objected to the Motion. He said, that the Ministers had, by this measure which they had adopted upon the opinions of the law-officers, transferred 30,000l.938l.Mr. Hume
 said, that the forms of the House would not allow the hon. Member to take that course.The Speaker
 said, that, in that case, he would meet the question before the House by a direct negative, and that he would renew his opposition on every vote of supply being proposed throughout the Session. Yes, he would: he would not listen, as he had listened before, to such language as this,—"You are impeding the public business without answering any good end." He thought the proceedings of Ministers, in refusing to produce the opinions of the law-officers, had been most unconstitutional. The Ministers by this refusal had treated both the House and the country with disrespect, and no further supplies should be granted with his consent. He would not divide the House on the question, as it had already expressed its opinion; but, for the present, he would content himself with giving the Motion for going into the committee a negative.Mr. Hume
941l.940l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.939 said, that he had on a former occasion objected to this vote, and it having then been postponed on account of the absence of the Secretary of State, he would now state his reasons for objecting to it. The establishment was at first only an experiment, and was warmly opposed in 1811, when it was first erected. It was then held that England ought to try an experiment which was said to have been eminently successful in the United States, and he had then given a conscientious support to the plan. The expense of the establishment, however, had been far greater than the estimate. In the first place, it had never contained much above one-half of the persons whom it was calculated to accommodate. It was
941l.940l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.939Mr. Hume
946l.l.945l.l.;l.,944Mr. Maberly said, "give it to them; make them a present of it.943l.942 rejoiced in the opportunity afforded him by the hon. Member, of entering into some explanations on this subject. He confessed he felt as deeply as the hon. Member, the importance of the subject, not more from the circumstances connected with it to which he had adverted, than from others to which he had not directed his attention. The whole question was so connected with that other most important question—the infliction of secondary punishments—that he really thought it worthy of the strictest investigation; and that investigation he courted, not to relieve himself from any responsibility, but in order that the best information might be
946l.l.945l.l.;l.,944Mr. Maberly said, "give it to them; make them a present of it.943l.942Sir R. Peel
, having commenced by saying that the right hon. Gentleman had changed his opinions on this subject, because he had formerly rejected all inquiry into the general management of County Penitentiaries—Colonel Davies
l.l., denied, that he had expressed any opinion with respect to them now, and observed that any meddling with the management of county jails by the local magistracy, after the counties had been persuaded to expend 20,000l.l.,Sir R. Peel
948s.947, in continuation, said, that the right hon. Gentleman had totally misunderstood him. His object was, to have an inquiry into our system of secondary punishments, which it was admitted wanted improvement. Every day, complaints were made of the rapid increase of crime, which was to be attributed to our secondary punishments, as they were called, holding out inducements to its commission. The state of our prison-discipline was such, that a man of the labouring class who committed an offence, and was confined for it, had better food, better clothing, and less work to perform, than whilst he was at large, and he was free from the taint of crime. He should like to have it ascertained how far the existing prisons might be made subservient to a better system. He was the last man who would wish to, put the country to expense, his feeble efforts had always been pointed to its diminution; but he wished for an inquiry, to see whether a more rigid discipline could not be enforced, and prisons made what they ought to be, places of punishment, instead of places of refuge and recreation. The work of captain, Basil Hall
948s.947Colonel Davies
949 observed, that the hon. member for Aberdeen had spoken of the system adopted in New South Wales, as one of favouritism, but he could assure him that it was not so. If the Committee considered the nature of the population of that colony, it would be sensible how likely it was, that there should at all times be complaints made against persons in authority there; and those who fancied that they had complaints to make, were encouraged to prefer them by the readiness of the hon. member for Aberdeen to bring them forward in that House. He did not complain of that readiness, on the contrary, he was glad that there should be, at all times Gentlemen in the House willing to bring forward any grievances, as the best way of making them known, and getting a remedy applied: but the hon. Gentleman ought not to bring forward sweeping accusations without proof against the Government of that or any other colony. As to the convicts being distributed on a principle of favouritism, the fact mentioned by the hon. Member who had just sat down, of the great anxiety of parties to obtain them, might account for the accusation. It was impossible that all could be satisfied; it was natural that those who were disappointed should complain, but as it was absolutely necessary that a certain control
949Sir George Murray
l.l.l.950l.l.l. said, that the 500,000l.l.l.950l.l.l.Mr. Maberly
 said, there was no analogy between the situation of a Colonel in the army and the Governor of a prison; he had experienced great difficulty in getting a gentleman of the attainments and character he deemed necessary, to fill the situation.Sir R. Peel
 said, the subject of secondary punishment was one of considerable importance, and deserved the best attention of the House.Mr. Wilmot Horton
. observed, that great reductions had been already made, and more were in contemplation. The estimate for this year was 600.Mr. Ross
l. objected to the salary of 400l.Mr. Hume
 remarked, that many persons had been restored to society by means of the Penitentiary.Sir T. Freemantle
951 said, the charge for
951Sir T. Baring
953952 said, that the principle of the Licensing system was not what some Gentlemen supposed, a new law, but was a part of the old Common Law of the country. It was laid down by all the writers on the Criminal Law, that indictments might be maintained against public-houses as public nuisances, not only because they were disorderly, but whenever they were inconveniently multiplied, or when they were opened in an inconvenient situation. The principle of the licensing system was preventive instead of corrective—it was, in fact, a system of previous inquiry, rather than of subsequent punishment. The evils which an unregulated system would introduce, had not been dreaded in vain. All the Statutes passed up to this time had proceeded on the principle of the Common Law. The 2nd of George II., especially stated, that many in- conveniences had arisen from the number of common public-houses; and in making that declaration it only adopted the words of the Common Law. The principle of the Common Law was openly contradicted by this Bill, for the Common Law said that public-houses might be inconveniently multiplied: but this Bill went on the presumption that there could not be too many. The Common Law said, that houses of this sort ought not to be erected in low, retired, and improper situations; but this Bill said, in effect, that no situation was improper, if the man dealing in the article paid two guineas a year to the Excise. What, he wished to know, would be the operation of this Bill with respect to Mr. Estcourt's law? That law had been well considered, and he did not think that its provisions ought to be lightly set aside. Let them suppose a person who had conducted his house in the most disorderly manner, when he came before
953952Mr. Monck
laughter said, he had been one of the first to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the reduction of the Beer-duty, because he had thought it one of the best proofs of the intention of the Ministry to have recourse to practical economy; but if all men were now to be allowed to sell Beer, and it might be consumed on their premises, England, from one end to the other would be one great ale-house. He wanted perfect freedom in the sale of Beer; but let the Magistrates have some control over it [laughterSir T. Gooch
955954 could not consent to consider this question by itself. It was in fact connected intimately with many others, and it must be viewed with reference to them. It was a curious fact, that while the consumption of every other necessary of life had increased in this country, the consumption of Malt, which was a neces-
955954Mr. Slaney
956 contended, that the various reductions in the duty on Malt had not been followed by a corresponding augmentation of the revenue; and he denied also that the brewers had been benefitted by the change. In reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Shrewsbury, he insisted that there had been at no time a combination between the London brewers and the distillers, adding, that he had himself always been an advocate for a free trade in Beer. He had been one of the first to point out the injuriousness of the licensing system, both to the public and to the publicans; and in his evidence before a committee of the House, twelve years since, he had asserted, that it would be an increasing evil. That prediction had been fulfilled according to the confession of all sides; and he now asserted, without fear of contradiction, that as far as the interests of the London brewers were concerned, the freer the trade in Beer was rendered, the better for them. With their great capitals, and the means of applying them, they need fear no competition. The country brewers were, however, differently circumstanced, and to
956Mr. Barclay
 was decidedly hostile to the Amendment, and supported the Bill, because it would destroy the arbitrary and injurious power now enjoyed and exercised by Magistrates under the licensing system. Clauses might be introduced, establishing useful regulations, but he did not see what claim publicans could have to compensation, when at any he they might be deprived of their licenses by the will and pleasure of the Quarter Sessions. Even if they were to be injured, private interests must be sacrificed to a great public advantage. He was satisfied that when the Bill came out of the Committee with the clauses intended to be introduced, many who now objected to it would give it their most hearty support.Mr. Western
 called upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in fairness, and for the convenience of proceeding, to state his views, and to open the amendments he proposed to insert.Sir E. Knatchbull
960959958957 said, that he was at all times extremely ready to attend to the wishes of any hon. Member, relative to any measures of his own or of others, upon public business, and that he must of course be anxious to explain, in the fullest manner, any bill which it was his duty to submit to the consideration of Parliament; and if he had not done so on the present occasion, it was because he felt the proposed amendment to be so directly at variance with the principle of the Bill of his right hon. friend, that he thought it proper to ascertain what was the sense of the House upon such a proposition, before he proceeded to discuss the other details of the measure, which were comparatively unimportant.
960959958957The Chancellor of the Exchequer
bona fide was a friend to a free trade in Beer, but then that trade must be bona fideMr. Estcourt
961 wished the poor man to be enabled to buy his Beer wherever he chose, which it was the object of this Bill to effect, but he knew that there were reasonable apprehensions entertained in many parts of the country, that the measure would increase the number of public-houses unnecessarily. That the poor man should
961Mr. Cripps
 thought that the publicans had a right to have their case fully heard. He assented to the principle according to which the clause in the Bill was drawn up, but he had two objections to the Bill. He did not think it contained police regulations of sufficient force; and it gave no time to persons who had embarked immense capitals in the Beer-trade to retire safely from it. He had always deprecated the licensing system, but after the House had sanctioned its continuance for so long a time, and thereby induced individuals to embark property in the Beer-trade, he did not think that the House would be acting right in agreeing to any measure which would bring those individuals to ruin. At least they ought to be allowed time, and he thought five years not too much to withdraw from the trade. He felt himself therefore bound, though favourable to the principle of free trade, to vote for the Amendment.Mr. Maberly
s.s. was of opinion, that if all the duty on Beer was to be repealed, a perfectly free trade in that article ought to follow, which, though at first it might create great fluctuations, would ultimately settle itself, like all other trades. He should therefore support the Bill as it was now brought forward. He wished the measure to have a fair trial, and next Session, if it were found to require some modifications they might be made. Instead of seeing the whole duty taken off Beer, he confessed he should have preferred if only 5s.s.Mr. R. Colborne
s.l.l.962, while admitting that the fears entertained of this measure, as far as the brewers were concerned, had been greatly exaggerated, contended that the loss to the publicans would be as great, if not greater, than was anticipated. There had only been one or two instances of petitions
s.l.l.962Mr. F. Buxton
963l.,, who rose amidst loud cries of "Question," promised that he would not trespass more than five minutes on the patience of the House. He reminded the Committee, that when the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, informed the House, that the whole of the Beer-duty, amounting to 3,000,000963l.,Mr. Huskisson
 did not think he should trouble the House so long as five minutes; but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), that he had never known a promise, such as he had, made so accurately kept before. He was perfectly ready to admit that the bill respecting Beer introduced about six years ago, contained a clause expressly prohibiting the consumption of Beer on the premises where it was sold; but the ground on which he allowed the introduction of that clause was, because he had not the slighest chance of carrying any part of the measure, unless he had consented that that clause should form a portion of it. He, however, protested against it, considering that it created a great defect in the measure, and he had not altered his opinion on the subject.Mr. Brougham
 thought, the House should not come to any conclusion on the proposition of the hon. member for Reading, until more information was afforded as to the mode in which the scheme of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to be carried into effect.Lord Milton
 said, that the clause he proposed seemed to him to leave the trade sufficiently open; and he did not think that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman were as weighty as had been contended.Mr. Monck
 hoped the hon. member for Reading would postpone his Amendment until the Bill was presented to the House in a more complete form. In all large towns, the result of the measure might have been correctly stated by its advocates; but in country districts he was sure it would lead to the opening of public-houses, not for the purpose of selling Beer, but for the sale of spirits, and those too not brought legitimately into this country. Before two years should pass over, the right hon. Gentleman would come down to the House with a proposition to amend his Bill. For these reasons, and in consideration of the immense property embarked in the Beer-trade, he should support the Amendment.Sir E. Knatchbull
964 said, he saw no advantage
964Mr. Monck
 contended, that it was the duty of the Ministers before they proceeded further, to state fully the whole of their intentions.Lord Milton
 said, that he could not refrain from stating his opinion. He looked on this as only a half measure, which, instead of making the trade free would merely extend the licensing system. There was a part of it which levied fines for the use of drugs in making Beer, and for using any other materials than malt and hops, and he did not see how these clauses could be carried into effect, without continuing all the excise regulations and restrictions. He contended, as the duty was taken off, that there would be no temptation to use deleterious ingredients, particularly if the duty on malt were also taken off, and therefore, he objected to continuing such sestrictions which would be very injurious, and would henceforth have no good effect whatever. Indeed if they were acted on, they would henceforth be doubly vexatious. Many shopkeepers and little retail dealers would sell Beer under the new Bill, and it would require a great additional number of excise men to look after them, though no number, however great, would be sufficient to prevent them from adulterating Beer if they thought proper to do so. He must object to this, then, as a species of impracticable law-making. Competition was the principle of the Act, and to that, not to these restrictions, ought the House to look to give efficacy to its provisions.Mr. Bright
 explained that the hon. Member would find all the Excise-laws, as far as they related to the sale of Beer, repealed in the Bill for abolishing the Beer duties. At the same time he contended that restricting the brewers to the use of malt and hops in making Beer, was necessary for the sake of the Beer-drinker. The restriction on the manufacture so far he supported. He also thought that unless the prohibition against adulteration were preserved, the people would be supplied with a worse liquor than ever.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
965 supported the clause. If a
965Mr. Benett
 explained, that the sale of Cider was to be put on the same footing as Beer.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that it would be impossible to place Cider-cellars under the same regulation as Beerhouses.Sir Thomas Acland
 trusted, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider this opinion, and leave those who dealt in Cider as they were.Mr. Hume
scire facias966 appeared at the bar, and addressed the House for Sir J. Barrington. He observed, that he was instructed not to enter upon the merits of the case, but to confine himself solely to the course of proceeding which had been adopted. It had now, he said, become a constitutional principle that no Judge should be removed from his situation unless a clear charge of malversation could be made out against him. Then, supposing the suspicion of malversation to exist, the question was, what course of proceeding was to be adopted in order to ascertain the fact. He believed that the course which had been pursued with respect to Sir J. Barrington was quite unprecedented. The misconduct of Judges had frequently come under the consideration of Parliament. Two Select Committees of the House of Commons had each made a report condemnatory of the conduct of the present Chief Baron of Ireland for increasing his Fees; but the House refused to interfere, on the ground that it was not bound by the decision of a Select Committee. He understood, that on the present occasion, the Select Committee had pursued the investigation in
scire facias966Mr. Denman
967 observed, that he could not agree in the view taken by the learned gentleman. There was a great difference between the case of the Irish Chief Baron and the one under consideration; for in the former there were strong doubts entertained as to the degree of criminality, whilst in the present case there were none. He could not agree with the learned Counsel, that it was necessary to have
967Lord F. L. Gower
968 said, that having carefully examined the evidence, he was certain that he came to a safe conclusion when he averred, that a case was never more directly or distinctly made out against
968The Solicitor General
 said, those who had felt it to be their duty to investigate this business were not to be guided by what the learned Judge wished, but by their own view of what was most proper to be done. The question was, whether the present was or was not the most proper course of proceeding that could be adopted? In a case susceptible of doubt, he should be inclined to proceed differently; but there was no doubt here. The investigation, both by the Commissioners of Inquiry and by the Committee, clearly proved the truth of the charges. And why was a prosecution now demanded? Precisely for the same reason which had induced the learned Judge heretofore to throw every obstacle in the way of a speedy decision. The learned Judge was anxious for delay; but he hoped the House would feel that sufficient indulgence had already been extended towards him.The Solicitor General
 again referred to the evidence to shew that Sir Jonah Barrington had appropriated the money to his own use.The Solicitor General
 said, that the prayer of Sir Jonah Barrington's petition had been practically granted, and that the evidence taken before the Select Committee had been virtually admitted by Sir Jonah, by the course which his Counsel at the bar had thought proper to follow. Whenever a tribunal had been appointed to investigate this case, Sir Jonah Barrington had avoided going before it, and seemed to look out for another tribunal. The time for appealing to the Court of King's Bench, or to the House of Lords, had, he thought, gone by last year, and he should therefore support the Motion.Sir R. Inglis
 opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would create further and unnecessary delay.Lord F. L. Gower
 thought it but fair that Sir Jonah should be heard before he was condemned. Any prisoner at the Old Bailey, before receiving sentence, was asked what he had to urge why sentence should not be passed on him. No feeling of inconvenience to the House should prevent the accused from being heard.Mr. Alderman Wood
 did not speak of any inconvenience to the House. What he said was, that it would be inconvenient to public justice to let the matter stand over to the next Session.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, the course proposed would be unusual after Counsel had been heard.Mr. Dundas
 had understood the hon. Member to urge the fact in vindication of Sir Jonah.The Solicitor General
 then moved, "that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, requesting that he would be graciously pleased to cause the said Sir Jonah Barrington to be removed from the office of Judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Ireland."Lord F. L. Gower
 objected to the Motion, on the ground that no previous notice had been given to the House that it was the noble Lord's intention to move such an Address immediately on acceding to the Resolutions.Mr. S. Rice
.—William Clifford.Prisoner
.—I do.Prisoner
.—I have watched the effect of the laws passed by your hon. House for twenty-six years, and have perceived a great inconsistency between your laws and your professions. It has become impossible for an honest man to live in the country.Prisoner
976 said, the reason why he seconded the Motion was, that he wished to have no vague mention of other evi-
976Mr. A. Dawson
 said, the evidence, as it stood, was conclusive, as to the delinquency of the learned Judge; but if evidence were called, and subjected to cross-examination, a very different case might be elicited. He was therefore in favour of hearing witnesses.Mr. Harrison Batley
 could not accede to the doctrine that the House ought to send this case before a Jury. If it did so, it would be a virtual surrender of the great privilege which the Constitution had conferred on the Commons of England. There was, however, another question, on which he entertained considerable doubt, namely, whether the proceedings before the committee were of such a nature as ought to be acted on judicially by the House. He felt so much doubt on that point, that he was induced to wish that the noble Lord's resolution should not be pressed at the present moment. It should be observed, that in cases of equal and of superior importance which had been brought under the cognizance of the House, the uniform practice had been to examine witnesses at the bar. This was the course which had been taken in the case of the Duke of York, and in many other instances. Indeed, it was quite unusual to take a condemnatory step against a public officer, without first hearing evidence at the bar. A proceeding of that kind did not imply a disbelief, on the part of the House, of the evidence given before a committee, or a doubt as to the propriety of its report; it was merely the carrying into effect a great constitutional principle.Sir C. Wetherell
978 said, that as a constitutional question, he thought the address to the Crown, for the removal of a Judge from his office, ought to be founded on evidence taken at its bar, and not before a select committee. There were, he was ready to admit, circumstances in the present case which would justify a departure from the general rule for which he contended, as the charges here were mainly dependent on the written documents of the party accused; but then
978Sir C. Wetherell
: Not in vindication; he vindicated nothing. He only repeated what was urged by Sir J. Barrington in his vindication.Mr. W. Harvey
977 had only mentioned
977Mr. D. W. Harvey
973Redstreak.Nancyad captandum972dsl said, that in the able address delivered by Counsel at the bar, it was maintained, that Parliament had not the power to proceed by address to the Crown for the removal of Sir J. Barrington. Now, without going into the merits of this argument, considered in a constitutional point of view, he must dissent from it as inapplicable to the present case, inasmuch as it was at variance with the prayer of the petitioner, which was to be heard at the Bar, in order to disprove the charge; Sir J. Barrington thus recognizing the authority to investigate it,—an authority that would be altogether nugatory, if the House could not afterwards proceed to address the Crown for his removal. The hon. Member proceeded to quote, from the fourth report of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the state of the Temporal and Ecclesiastical Courts in Ireland, a part of the remarks applicable to the Admiralty Court. In reference to the emoluments of Mr. Pineau, the registrar of that court, the commissioners stated, that his average receipts in three years, ending 1814, were 216973Redstreak.Nancyad captandum972dslMr. D. W. Harvey
lllbona fide said, if it should appear, when Sir Jonah Barrington was called to the bar, that his object was delay till the next Session, he, for one, would not consent to it; but if he wished lllbona fideMr. D. W. Harvey
 was understood to express his assent to this arrangement.Mr. J. Wood
980 intimated his opinion that
980Mr. Sadler
 said, that the hon. Gentleman would observe, that the documents referred to were interlined by the Judge. The hon. Member, too, thought that if the Registrar might lend the money of the suitors, the Judge might borrow it. Such a state of things would be monstrous enough; but it was not necessary to deal with this argument, because Sir Jonah Barrington, if he had borrowed the money, had borrowed it as gentlemen borrowed purses on Hounslow-heath. He made a peremptory order on the Registrar which subordinate officer to the Judge was bound to obey.Mr. C. Wynn
 suggested, that as this was a serious malversation in office, a stronger expression ought to be used in the Resolution as applying to it.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 thought it inexpedient that Sir J. Barrington should be permitted to remain in office an hour longer than the proper forms would allow, after having been stigmatized by the House of Commons in such a manner as to render his continuance as Judge of the Court of Admiralty incompatible with the public interests.Mr. C W. Wynn
971970 said, that there were both advantages and disadvantages connected with the examination of witnesses at the bar. Cross-examination, he admitted, was a very considerable advantage; but there was this great disadvantage, that many Gentlemen left the House after having heard the first part of the evidence, and others came in, who were thus only in possession of the latter part. In such cases, very few Members were acquainted with the whole of the evidence when they were called on for their decision. Besides, a spirit of party was often observable in an examination before a committee of the whole House, which tended to pervert the course of justice. He had, on some such occasions, seen men whose conduct was generally impartial, led, by the feeling of party spirit, into acrimonious dissensions, which diverted their minds from the real bearings
971970Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, that when a party was heard by Counsel, he was bound by the defence set up for him. If he chose to have called witnesses, that was the time to urge the claim; but Counsel having retired without making any such demand, it was now too late.Mr. C. W. Wynn
.—What is your name?The Speaker
 then ordered him to withdraw.The Speaker
.—What induced you to be guilty of the offence of throwing a number of such papers into the body of the House?The Speaker
.—Do you know this paper?The Speaker
, observing that there seemed to be no alternative but to order that he be committed to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms—made a Motion to that effect.Sir R. Peel
 reminded the hon. Member that it would be difficult to ascertain that point at the moment, and as they could not act on mere presumption, he thought the best course would be to let him remain in custody, at least until Monday, when the question as to his further disposal might be more easily decided.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that it was quite impossible to put Resolutions of this nature on record without following them up forthwith by an Address to the Crown as a necessary consequence. It would, of course, be requisite to give time to the committee which should be appointed to prepare an address in conformity with the Resolutions.Sir R. Peel
 said, the difficulty in the adoption of the suggestion was this—that as the accused party had no notice, it would not be fair to him to alter the character of the delinquency now by any description different from that of which he had received notice. He was fully impressed with the importance of the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir C. Wetherell,) whose very able view of the case entitled his suggestion to much weight. As a general principle, he would certainly admit that the hearing of evidence at the bar would, in a case like the present, be proper; but there were circumstances in it, particularly the evidence being chiefly documentary, which justified the departure from that principle in this case. It appeared to him that the case had legitimately concluded when the Counsel retired from the bar, and that the House would be fully warranted in leaving the special circumstances to be collected from the record.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that at the time of the correspondence to which the hon. Member alluded, Mr. Lamb could have known nothing of the transactions in which the present case originated. Mr. Lamb's letter was dated 12th May, 1828, and the report of the law-commissioners on the subject of these transactions was not made till January 1829. As to the remarks of the hon. Member, respecting the understanding about the compensation from the Droits of Admiralty, the hon. Member himself must see, that, if urged as a defence, they must involve an admission of the fact of appropriation.Sir R. Peel
975974 said, he thought the more convenient course would be, to consider the propositions before the House separately. His hon. and gallant friend (Sir R. Wilson) proposed, that they should abandon the proceedings before the House,
975974Sir R. Peel
 contended, that Sir Jonah Barrington ought not to be punished until he had been legally tried. With few more than fifty Members in the House, and on an unusual day, they ought not to proceed to vote this Resolution; and he should therefore move, as an Amendment, "That Sir J. Barrington be called to the Bar, and asked what is the nature of the evidence he is desirous to produce." The House would then be able to judge respecting the admissibility of the evidence, and what ulterior measures should be adopted.Sir R. Wilson
.—He wished to brave it.Sir R. Wilson
: The Counsel argued the question only on constitutional grounds.Sir R. Wilson
 suggested, that it was possible he might not have designed to offend the House, and recommended that he should be recalled and questioned further, with a view to elicit whether his motive was improper.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that when any inquiry, whether of a civil or criminal nature, took place in our courts of law, the defendant had the advantage of examining and cross-examining witnesses. He hoped that the same course would be pursued in this case, and that the House would not exercise its power, and call for the dismissal of the learned Judge without first hearing his witnesses.Sir R. Wilson
 remarked, that at the time of the correspondence with Mr. Lamb, there was nothing known of any charge of corruption against Sir Jonah Barrington.Sir J. Newport
 thought the present system injurious. The Irish labourer came to this country, and underworked the English labourer, and when he was tired of stopping, or could gain no more, he got. passed back to his own country, taking care to conceal his money or obtaining a bill for it which was paid in Ireland. He would say, that the best way would be, not to interfere with them, and as they found their way here so let them find their way back. An English Pauper could get no relief in Ireland, and he would treat the Irish Pauper in England as the English Pauper was treated in Ireland.Colonel Davies
 appeared at the bar, and presented a Petition from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons of London, in Common Council assembled, against the Bill for the removal of Scotch and Irish Paupers. The Petition was read on the Motion ofThe Sheriff of London
, who said, that in supporting its prayer he was sorry not to see in his place the noble Lord who had introduced the Bill, against which the Petition was directed, but he hoped the noble Lord would not persevere in it. Many of the Irish poor were employed about London, and if the parishes there were compelled to send them to their native land, it would occasion very considerable expense. No provision was made against their return, and the consequence would be, that they would get a passage in a caravan or a mail-coach, and a steamboat to Ireland, with the advantage of a pedestrian excursion to bring them back. As to punishing these people, as he understood was proposed, who came here honestly to earn their bread, that was what he never would consent to. But he believed that the Irish Pauper was too cunning not to escape through the meshes of the law. At present he raked together a little money in various places, and carefully concealing it, whenever he could get no more he got himself sent back to his own country at the public charge. In 1816 he had sent great numbers of them to prison, and they had been sent home, but they had soon found their way back. Already the expense occasioned by these Paupers bore very heavy on many parishes in the city, and he hoped that the House would not pass a Bill which would increase their burthens.Mr. Alderman Wood
 admitted, that the colonists of the Cape were not at the present moment prepared for representation, but he looked forward to the time when they would be capable of appreciating and exercising that privilege, and every other to which those who were accustomed to live under the British Constitution were accustomed. If the noble Lord were not to follow up the Petition by a motion to carry its prayer into effect he should oppose it, but he should be most happy to co-operate in the measures necessary to render the Colonists fit to enjoy the advantages which they sought.Mr. Wilmot Horton
1010l1009 said, that the statements in the Petition presented by the noble Lord from the Cape, were equally applicable to all the colonies under the care of the Crown; a similar vicious system of government existed in all of them; and it was not possible to remove the grievances complained of but by granting the prayer of the Petition, and thus giving the colonists some control over their taxation and expenditure. These colonies were peculiarly situated. They had no independent local legislatures of their own, nor were they represented in the Imperial Parliament; but were under the immediate patronage and control of the Crown, by whom the taxes were levied and revenues appropriated. They presented, indeed, a practical example of the effects of taxation without representation. The colonists themselves had no control whatever over their expenditure, and though the produce of the taxes raised in the colony could not by law be appropriated to any but colonial purposes, yet
1010l1009Mr. Marryat
, adverting to what fell from his noble friend behind him, in which the resignation of Prince Leopold was spoken of as 'unfortunate,' confessed that he considered it as anything but unfortunate. He should rejoice in any- thing calculated to promote the honour and glory of that illustrious personage, but he could not help considering it an excellent thing that his resignation enabled this country to avoid the entanglement which the acceptance of that Sovereignty might eventually have brought about.Mr. Brougham
 explained—he used the term 'unfortunate' in the usual way in which that term was applied to ne otiations terminating unsuccessfully.Lord John Russell
 said, I beg to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman; and in doing so I consider that I adopt a proceeding by no means inconsistent with my deep impression of the great importance of the Motion. The course we have to pursue is, I believe, unprecedented. We shall derive no light upon it from the practice of former times, in either House of Parliament. I deem it consistent with the last part of the Address, which expresses the determination of the House, speedily to provide for supplying the defect in the discharge of the Royal functions, in the way best adapted to the exigencies of the public service, to state that we ought to take those steps most cautiously and deliberately, and in a manner best calculated to prevent any rashness on our part from being drawn into precedent. I wish to abstain, for obvious reasons, from making a single remark not necessarily called for; but all must be aware of the danger, in cases of this sort, that may arise from rashness of proceeding, and the necessity of never adopting a course which hereafter may be employed in a manner which, while adopting it, we are far from contemplating. When driven to a necessity like that which now unfortunately exists, we must guard, most scrupulously against the possibility of a door being opened which our successors may have cause to wish had for ever remained closed.Mr. Brougham
1004 said, that he had heard without the least surprise what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, for, from certain tokens that he had observed, and certain documents he had seen, he was prepared to expect it. He would, for the present, abstain from further observations, as the papers were not in the hands of hon. Members. The documents laid on the Table, as the House would see, were very voluminous; but if the short account which he had read was to be relied on, the documents were much more voluminous
1004Mr. Brougham
 wished also to ask a question, relative to the difference between Prince Leopold and the Allied Powers—it was said that there were some points of difference between them on the subject of a loan—some bartering about money. Rumours of that nature were injurious to the honour and character of the illustrious personage in question, and, therefore. it was material that the matter should be set right with the world. It was also said, that the proposed territorial limits of Greece formed matter of dispute. Now, he wished to know which of these, or whether it was on both, that the difference arose, that brought about the unfortunate termination of those negotiations?Lord John Russell
1013 concurred in the general principle, that a representative form of government would be the best for the colonies, where circumstances permitted; but at the same time he fully agreed with; the right hon. and gallant Secretary, that that system could not at present be adopted for the Cape of Good Hope without great danger to the best interests of that colony. He admitted that the government should be for the benefit of the many, and not for the few; but he did not think, that that
1013Dr. Lushington
 thanked his hon. friend for abandoning the subject to him. His hon. friend, however, would excuse him if he did not bring forward the subject in exactly the same form as he (Mr. Hume) would have done. His motion would be a Resolution something to the effect of what he had already stated.Sir James Graham
1025102410231022eludio la requesta.10211020coup de main;provoquerpour arrondir son indépendence,10191018 rose to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the important subject on which a Petition was presented to the House on Thursday, and which concerned the credit, the interest, and the prosperity of the country. He was then glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet, that it was the determination of his Majesty's Government not to infringe that system of neutrality it had always acted on towards Spain and the new States of South America. The right hon. Gentleman had then stated, that if it ever were proved to him that Great Britain had interfered to restrain those new states in the exercise of their belligerent rights, he should feel himself bound to give them protection against any operations directed against them from the points we had prevented them, from attacking. The right hon. Gentleman had then stated, however, the reasons why he did not believe that this country had ever laid any interdict, or intended to lay any interdict, on the warlike operations of those States. The reasons assigned by the right hon. Baronet were rather inferences than facts, and they were all derived from the circumstance that there was no correspondence between Mr. Canning and the South American ministers on this subject in the Foreign
1025102410231022eludio la requesta.10211020coup de main;provoquerpour arrondir son indépendence,10191018Sir Robert Wilson
 could assure the hon. and gallant Member, that he had no recollection whatever—and he was in the Foreign-office at the time of the projected attack on Cuba—of any language, written or oral, of Mr. Canning, which warranted the inferences of the Mexican and Colombian ministers. He recollected, indeed, a conversation which he had with M. Michelana on the subject; but he thought it right to request of that gentleman to put his statement in writing, in order that it might be laid before Mr. Canning; and from that day he had never heard another word on the matter from Mr. Michelana.Mr. Planta
102810271026 was sorry that his hon. friend had renewed the discussion on this subject, and he was confident that the hon. Member and the representatives of the States of Mexico and Colombia were not consulting the true interests of those countries, by wishing to fasten on England an engagement to enter into a defensive alliance with them against Spain; an alliance which no Minister of this country ever contemplated, and which, he repeated, it was injurious to the interests of those States for their representatives to insist on, through any construction put on the correspondence of Mr. Canning. There never, indeed, was anything clearer than that Mr. Canning had not, by any language in any public document, interdicted Mexico and Colombia from the fair aggression of belligerents against Spain, and that he had not entered into any obligation, either formal or moral, to assist those States against Spain in consequence of their refraining from their contemplated attack on Cuba. What, however, had his hon. friend done? He had produced no authenticated document from the Foreign-office—no paper bearing the signature of Mr. Canning; but he
102810271026Sir Robert Peel
 said, that the blockade was prevented.Sir R. Wilson
—the blockade was prevented by internal dissensions among the States, but not by the interference of England. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by repeating his former declarations, that there was no obligation, either moral, or imposed by treaty, on Great Britain, to protect. Mexico from attacks on the side of Cuba; and he protested against the reception of unauthorised memoranda of conversations in the discussion of a question of this kind, for the purpose of establishing a claim to a defensive alliance, which never was contemplated by any member of the Government of this country.Sir R. Peel
 intimated an opinion that it was only in March last that Mexico received permission to invade Cuba.Sir R. Wilson
 repeated, that the South American States knew they were at liberty to do so throughout the whole period, and that in 1826 they showed a disposition to act on that opinion. Some stress had been laid on the supposition that Mr. Canning advised the Mexicans not to invade Cuba. He denied that Mr. Canning did so; but if he had, he (Sir R. Peel) was prepared to contend, that at the time when Mr. Canning was endeavouring to prevail on Spain to recognise these States, he had a perfect right to advise the Mexicans to abstain from offending Spain by an attack on Cuba.Sir R. Peel
1029 saw no inconsistency between the statements of his right hon. friend and the documents produced by the gallant General, although they proved to demonstration that Mexico and Colombia, in deference to the feelings and wishes of Great Britain, had abstained from the course they had previously determined to pursue. He would be one of the last to say, however, that the deference then paid to the wishes of this country bound it to any defensive alliance. God forbid, that he should argue anything of the kind. All he wished to impress on the House and the Government was, that the conduct of Mexico at that time gave her a claim now on our
1029Mr. Huskisson
1015 said, he had a Petition to present, which, as he considered it of peculiar importance, he would solicit the attention of the House to circumstances which, in his opinion, imparted to it considerable weight. It was a Petition signed by Bankers, and none but Bankers; they were residents of
1015 Mr. Brougham
 seconded the Motion. He could not avoid taking that opportunity of expressing his extreme satisfaction at the vigilance of his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, who had with great patience exerted himself in attracting the attention of the House to this subject, which he considered as of vital importance. It was of importance not only as regarded the disposal of the duties of the Customs without the sanction of Parliament, but as involving on the part of the Crown-lawyers a claim for a more arbitrary and monstrous exercise of prerogative—in which light, perhaps, his hon. friend would not regard it as so important—than had been known since the accession of the House of Brunswick to the Throne. It was such a violation of constitutional principles that he should think he did not discharge his duty to the public if he did not support his hon. friend. If the Ministers did not give notice of their intention to bring in a bill, before the close of the Session, to limit and restrain the prerogative on this point, he should consider it his duty to move a Resolution to that effect on the motion for the House to go into a Committee of Supply. If the Crown were advised to stand on the extreme of its prerogative, nothing more could be done but that, following its example, the House must stand on the extreme of its privileges, and withhold the supplies by a motion of adjournment. If his hon. friend would turn the matter over to him, he would endeavour to bring it before the House and the public in a plain and intelligible shape.Sir James Graham
 replied, that many of the persons in question were in great distress, and that the money was distributed among them with the utmost impartiality by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Lord Chancellor.Mr. Dawson
 also expressed his surprise at the item for the Penitentiary, which was nearly a third of the amount of the expense of Stationery for the Office of the Secretary of State.Mr. Gordon
ll observed that, by an error in the mode of abolishing the establishment of the Lottery, persons who had held situations in that department were pensioned on the Consolidated Fund. He knew one person who had retired on a pension of 300llMr. Maberly
l observed, that he had himself thought the item for the Penitentiary large; but, on inquiry, he found that many of the prisoners were exercised in writing. The 25lMr. Dawson
l objected likewise to the item of 150lMr. Gordon
1031 ob-
1031The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l Baring objected to the item of 1,200lSir Thomas
 said, that the fees on that account were of very old date, and that there had been no increase in them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that it would be better to move an instruction to the Committee.Sir James Mackintosh
 bowed to the opinion of the Chair. The only object for which he wished to move an instruction to the Committee was, to give full and fair notice on that sole point on which any important difference was likely to occur. He would, however, relinquish that course, and would move an amendment as soon as the House should go into the Committee on the bill.Sir J. Mackintosh
104310421041aut cito mors, aut victoria lœta.104010391038Cour de Cassation1037contrefa÷on des billets de Banque;103610351034"Prisca, juvent alios; ego me nunc denique natum jactabor."1033 said, that he should, according to the suggestion of the Speaker, proceed to act in that Committee as he should have done, with respect to the instruction he was about to move, in the House itself; and as there had yet been no full debate upon this great measure, he hoped the Committee would excuse him, if he considered himself in the same situation, now that they were in Committee, as he should have considered himself if he had brought on this discussion upon the motion for the second reading. In making the observations that occurred to him upon this subject, he should confine himself, as narrrowly as possible, within the limits of the question before the Committee? but at the same time he must declare, that it was impossible to consider that question, without considering the general principles of legislation, and especially those principles which were more peculiar to this important class of offences. It was needless for him to enter into the history of the various parliamentary controversies in which, since the time when that great man, Sir Samuel Romilly, first brought the subject under the notice of Parliament, they had often been engaged.—He could not compare—or, rather, he could not contrast—the temper and opinions of these two periods without a strong feeling of exultation, which he had no language adequate to convey as powerfully as he was affected by it to the House. He remembered reading of those times when the most ancient, the most barbarous punishments were resorted to without reprobation, and when even the lifeless remains of those who had been no worse than adventurers in the troubled sea of politics were exposed to the perpetration of every horrible indignity; when Llewellyn, Prince of Wales, and Wallace of Scotland, were insulted in this manner, because they had been noble enough to stand up bravely in defence of the liberties of their country. He recollected the time too when the most respectable men in the country, both as statesmen and as lawyers, were against that for which he now asked, and would have contended as boldly for the preservation of those old and barbarous modes of punishment, the worthless remnants of barbarous times, as for that of Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights.
104310421041aut cito mors, aut victoria lœta.104010391038Cour de Cassation1037contrefa÷on des billets de Banque;103610351034"Prisca, juvent alios; ego me nunc denique natum jactabor."1033Sir J. Mackintosh
 begged pardon for interrupting the right hon. Gentleman; but although he was a member of the association, he never understood that it was binding on them to make any communication to the secretary or solicitor, unless they thought proper to do so.Mr. Martin
10591058l105710561055 said, he felt bound, from the very same arguments, to come to a different conclusion from that adopted by the right hon. Gentleman. It was said that the number of prosecutions by the Bank of England was daily diminishing, and that as there could be no such desire to avoid the infliction of capital punishments in the minds of the Directors of the Bank of England, that unflinching prosecutor, as was visible in others,—as they were free from any scruples on that point, that therefore, the offence of forging was not so often committed, and the law required no alteration, because it worked well for the protection of the bankers and the public. The right hon. Gentleman also contended that secondary punishments were not safe to rest on for security; and he contended that they were at all times of too unsatisfactory a nature to deter from the commission of crime. Now, that was just his (Mr. Brougham's) difficulty in this case. How was it that the law performed its office well? Why, because of this very secondary punishment, which the right hon. Gentleman attempted to demonstrate was inefficient and insupportable, and almost impossible to be executed. He would just beg of the House to look a little at the real state of the case. In the last seven years there had been 217 convictions for Forgery—that is, 217 persons sentenced to death, independently of those who were compelled to suffer minor punishments for minor offences of the same nature. And how many had been subjected to the unsatisfactory and ineffectual, and all but impracticable secondary punishments which the right hon. Gentleman describes? Why, of this 217, just twenty-four were executed: just nine, to one therefore, had been subjected to the secondary punishment alone. If, therefore, there was only one criminal hung out of every ten, the punishment of death, upon which
10591058l105710561055Mr. Brougham
1030 expressed his hope that
1030Mr. Protheroe
 was desirous of knowing whether it was information recently received from Greece that decided Prince. Leopold in breaking off those negotiations?Mr. Agar Ellis
1011 complained of a practice which had existed for a long time in the Colonial Department, of sending out men of broken fortunes to occupy situations in the colonies, by which many serious evils arose to the colonies themselves. He thought that if the names of all persons appointed to colonial situations were inserted in the Gazette for some time before they went out, the evil might be avoided, because a means would thus be obtained of coming at a correct knowledge of the character of the parties, and of their fitness for the appointments. He did not mention this as arising out of any appointments which had been made since the right hon. and gallant officer came to the head of the Colonial Department, for, to do him. justice, he believed that since then no persons had been sent out who were not properly qualified for the situations they had, to fill; but the subject was one to
1011Mr. Labouchere
 gave notice that, on the bringing up of the report, his right hon. And learned friend would move that the punishment of transportation or imprisonment should be substituted for the punishment of death.Mr. F. Buxton
 observed, that at that late hour he would trespass upon the patience of the House with but very few remarks. The law, as it at present stood, encouraged instead of discouraging crime; it was an encouragement to perjury on the part of jurors, grounded on a tenderness for human life. There was much to justify this tenderness. If he were told that a criminal would be subjected to some ignominious punishment, that he would be condemned to hard labour or transportation for life, he might be induced to spare no pains to bring him to justice; but the case was different when he knew that the result of bringing a criminal to justice might be putting him to death, and sending him to the awful tribunal of another world with all his guilt on his head. Let the House recollect that a petition had been that day presented in favour of abolishing the punishment of death for Forgery, signed by above 1,000 bankers. That was not like an ordinary petition. No object could be so important to such petitioners as the prevention of Forgery. Hundreds of millions of money passed through their hands; and they were therefore most deeply interested in the adoption of such measures as would guard them from loss; but they declared by their petition that in their opinion the infliction of death for the crime of Forgery was not calculated to effect that object. It was formerly said that the friends of the abolition of the punishment of death for Forgery were theoretical. Now, however it was distinctly stated by large bodies of practical men, that the punishment of death for Forgery prevented prosecutions and convictions, and thereby left their property unprotected. The difficulty of obtaining convictions, naturally prevented bankers from prosecuting; for it was obvious that there were many reasons to disincline bankers from letting the world know that Forgeries had been committed upon them, unless they could feel tolerably sure of being able to convict the persons by whom those Forgeries had been perpetrated. There were many other points on which it would be easy to dilate; but he would abstain from troubling the House any further at that late hour.Mr. F. Buxton
 was persuaded that, upon the whole, it was desirable to try what effect the abolition of the punishment of death would produce.Mr. J. Martin
1016 said, it had been his intention
1016Mr. Hume
 considered them as prohibitory of information.Mr. Hume
ll adverted to the items of 190llMr. Hume
 wished to know on what authority a charge was made at the Tower for inspecting the Public Records?Mr. Hume
 was of opinion that the payments might be gradually discontinued.Mr. Hume
1017 then moved "That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be pleased to lay before the House an account of the proceeds of the 4½-per-cents during the
1017Mr. Hume
lllll said, that there were many objectionable items in this Grant. There was the Royal Military Asylums, 295lllllMr. Hume
1012 did not think, that the right hon. and gallant officer had given very satisfactory reasons why the prayer of the Petition presented by the noble Lord should not be complied with. The complaint of the petitioners was, that British subjects, who had been accustomed to live under the free institutions of their own country, should, when they went out to settle in a colony, be at once brought under the dominion of arbitrary power. The nature of that government exposed it to great abuses, and the result was, that wherever it existed the improvement of the colony was greatly retarded. This had been as strongly illustrated in the Cape of Good Hope as in any colony he could name. The hon. and gallant officer had said, that he did not think this colony would be fit for a representative system of government whilst slavery existed; but he begged to ask him, when did he expect that slavery would cease there? When would that portion of the inhabitants be free? When would they be fit for a representative government? The right hon. Gentleman had, he thought, removed the period of freedom to an indefinite time. The right hon. and gallant officer's next objection was, he thought, as little satisfactory as the other,—namely, that of the distance to which the population was scattered. Now in the Canadas it was well known the inhabitants were scattered over a vast extent of country, and that was not found to be a serious objection to the establishment of a representative government. When the Floridas were ceded to the United States, they were at once incorporated into the national union, with a representative government, the distance at which many of the inhabitants were scattered from one another being no obstacle, because arrangements were easily made for meeting in the most central part of the state. It was at present a just cause of complaint, that England was taxed to pay for the expenditure of colonies which would willingly support themselves, if allowed to do so under a representative system; but instead of this, large sums were annually drawn from the pockets of the people here to meet expenses which we ought not to be called upon to pay. Give the colonies a representative system, and they would willingly pay their own expenses; though they would not pay
1012Mr. Hume
 observed, that persons of Dutch descent, resident at the Cape, were as much British subjects as any men could be born in any colony.Mr. Hume
l begged to ask in what manner the sum of 1,695lMr. Hume
 wished to inquire of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, if those papers contained any information relative to the sums which this country might be called on to pay by any guarantees it had entered into connected with those transactions?Mr. Hume
 highly complimented his right hon. friend on the efforts which he had made, and was making to ameliorate the Criminal Code of the country, although he could not agree with him on the present question. His right hon. friend had stated, that country bankers were not sufferers by Forgery; but by the returns on the Table, it appeared, that there were more convictions for Forgery at the county assizes than in London and Middlesex. It was demonstrated that the severity of the threatened punishment did not check the increase of the offence. Though he was disposed to pay great deference to the opinion of his right hon. friend, he must vote for the abolition of the punishment of death. Was it not worth while to try the experiment of abolishing it? If the experiment failed, the public feeling would then be reconciled, however reluctantly, to the re-enactment of the capital punishment. In his opinion, the last and severest punishment that it was in the power of man to inflict ought to be reserved for offences of the greatest moral guilt.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 expressed his regret that the right hon. Secretary had not stated out of what materials a representative government could be formed.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that when instructions were given to a Committee, it was generally to do that which they would not have the power to do without those instructions; but the instruction which the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to move was, to do what the Committee had the power to do without such instruction, and therefore would restrain their power, as showing the prior judgment and opinion of the House.Mr. Speaker
1008 felt, that he should be wanting in respect to the noble Lord, and in that due attention to the colonists which he wished at all times to manifest towards them, if he did not state a few of the considerations which rendered the establishment of a representative system of government at the Cape of Good Hope extremely inexpedient. The Petition, the House would perceive, came from only a portion of the colony, and from that portion, too, in which slavery did not exist—and that made a material difference—indeed there was no country where slavery existed in which the expediency of introducing a representative legislature might not most seriously be doubted. The state of that colony, with reference to population and civilization, ought also to be taken into account. Its extent was nearly equal to that of the United Kingdom—about 600 miles long and 300 wide. The colonists amounted to only 119,966 souls, of whom the slaves amounted to 31,000, the free blacks to 35,000 and the whites to 53,996. A population so scattered, and so circumstanced, could but poorly exercise the privileges and powers of representation. Again, the whites were divided into Dutch and British, and if they had a Legislature, that body would be divided into two parties—the Dutch party and the British party—and thus one of the most important benefits of representation would be counteracted. Then the House, he hoped, would not lose sight of the difficulty which Parliament had always experienced in its attempts to ameliorate the condition of the slaves wherever a colonial legislature existed, and until something satisfactory could be done for the slaves at the Cape of Good Hope, he should be unwilling to see a representative government established there. Something had been said in disparagement of the successive governments at the Cape of Good Hope; but he must take leave to say, that the Hottentots would not have been put upon the same footing with the colonists if the Cape had
1008Sir George Murray
 wished the House to analyse the composition of society at the Cape. The number of females was 55,000, males 64,000; from those deduct the Slaves, the Dutch, the Hottentots, and the persons under age; and the number of British colonists capable of exercising the elective franchise would be found exceedingly small.Sir George Murray
1014 in explanation, begged to say, that though he had the good fortune of having had the opportunity of carrying the measures for improving the condition of the Hottentots, to which the hon. and learned Member had alluded, into full operation, yet it would not be doing justice to others if he did not state
1014Sir G. Murray
 was decidedly of opinion, that free institutions ought to be given to the settlers at the Cape, and to all other colonists, as soon as they were fit to receive them, and capable of appreciating their value. He by no means understood the noble Lord as recommending the immediate adoption of a measure such as the petitioners prayed for—all he urged upon the consideration of the House was, the necessity of speedily turning its attention to the subject, and taking such preliminary steps as might forward the object in view. There could be no doubt that flagrant abuses had existed in that colony, but they were not chargeable upon the present government—which was not to blame. There had existed a most scandalous carelessness with respect to colonial functionaries. Not long since a person was sent out as Chief-justice of Newfoundland who contrived to swindle the people of that colony out of a very large sum; and an Attorney-general was sent to the same place, who, though a person of better character, was totally unfit for the office.Mr. Robinson
1001 thought, that the parishes about London, which had the benefit of the Pauper's labour, should pro-
1001Sir John Wrottesley
 was of opinion, that if the law were once altered, it would not be easy to bring it back to its present state. Having more faith in the judgment of his right hon. friend than he had in that of a 1,000 bankers, he should vote for the Bill as it stood.Sir J. Yorke
105410531052llllll said, he did not wish to mention names, but he had been assured of the fact on very good authority. Returning, however, to this association, he found, by returns which he had received, that at the Clearing Office of these Bankers there were paid, on the 13th, 14th and 15th of the month of May, bills and checks to the number of 45,800, and the money value of this amazing number of drafts and bills, all of them liable to Forgery, amounted to 10,095,000105410531052llllllSir R. Peel
1051l10501049llll1048llllllll10471046particeps criminis;ll10451044 rose and said, that if he had expected, when he came into the House that evening, to find the question of forgery treated as a party question, and as one by which the fate of a Ministry might be decided, such an impression would have been removed by the great, not to say lavish, encomiums bestowed on his humble exertions by the right hon. Gentleman. But he entered the House with no such impression, knowing, and he rejoiced at it, that the time was at length come when they could consider all the questions connected with the criminal law of the country, as no party questions, nor be liable in discussing them to have their attention diverted from the sound reasons which ought to determine their conduct, and from the interests of those classes for which they were called on to legislate. He wished to defer to the views of the right hon. Gentleman and the great body of the petitioners; and if he had been compelled to adopt a conclusion different from theirs, he could assure them that it was after deliberate consideration that he had attained to the honest conclusion, that it would be better to preserve the punishment of death for forgery than abandon it. He had no motives to make him wish to differ from them, and he had no previously-formed theories which he was anxious to support. From the right hon. Gentleman's general doctrines respecting the punishment of death he did not dissent; but he wished to state his opinion, with the reasons and the facts on which it had been formed, on the question whether the punishment of death ought to be preserved or abandoned. There were no reasons, that he knew of, nor any circumstances in his situation, why he should not be ready to adopt the views of the right hon. Gentleman. By the bill which he had introduced into the House he proposed to meliorate one part of our criminal code, and his course had uniformly been towards the mitigation of its severity. When he came into office, seven years before the present period, the criminal law of Great Britain exceeded in severity the criminal codes of every other part of Europe, and he had then thought it ought to be meliorated. He made it, since he had been in office, the great object of his ambition, not to set the example
1051l10501049llll1048llllllll10471046particeps criminis;ll10451044Sir Robert Peel
page brought up a Message from his Majesty, which was read by the Speaker, and for which see the Debate in the House of Lords [page Sir R. Peel
1002 then said: I am confident that I shall be acting in concurrence with the unanimous feeling of the House, if I proceed immediately to move an Address, expressive of the deep regret of his Majesty's faithful Commons at the intelligence just communicated, respecting the indisposition under which his Majesty is labouring, and conveying to the foot of the Throne the earnest prayer of the House of Commons that his Majesty may be speedily restored to health. The Address I shall propose will, in addition, merely pledge the House to take into consideration, with the least practicable delay, the means which may enable his Majesty to provide for the attachment of the royal signature to the public instruments that require it. Perhaps it may be convenient to state that the bill for effecting the object in view will originate in the House of Lords, and it will therefore not be necessary to move immediately that the Message be taken into consideration. I beg to move "That an Address be
1002Sir R. Peel
 again recommended the postponement of any further discussion until hon. Members were in possession of the papers.Sir Robert Peel
1003 brought up and laid upon the Table, by command of his Majesty, Papers relating to Greece. In moving (he said) that they do lie upon the Table, I feel it my duty, as the House has bad no opportunity of becoming
1003 Sir R. Peel
 said, that in the communications between Prince Leopold and his Majesty's Government, his Royal Highness stated, that in despatches received from Greece, he certainly had received information which had decided his conduct on the matter of his resignation.Sir Robert Peel
1005 said, he laid the documents on the Table of the House, and in doing so he conceived it was proper to state what they were, but strictly to avoid any comments upon them until they should be in the hands of hon. Members. He thought he was bound to observe that course in fairness to the House, and to the parties interested, he being now acquainted with their contents, and other hon. Members not having that advantage. As to the questions which had been asked, he should willingly reply to them, but in doing so he wished to avoid all discussion. In answer to the question of the hon. member for Aberdeen, he had to state, that full information would be found in those Papers respecting the pecuniary engagements of this country, arising out of the negotiations to which the papers he had just laid upon the Table of the House referred. The noble Lord opposite inquired whether differences respecting loans, or a disagreement relative to the proposed territorial limits of Greece, formed the grounds on which the negotiations were broken off. On a former
1005Sir Robert Peel
, adverting to the intended Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, for an instruction to the Committee on the Forgeries' Punishment Bill, wished to ask, what course the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to pursue. He suggested that it might be a preferable course simply to move an Amendment in the Committee.Sir Robert Peel
 requested the House to suspend its judgment till the facts were fairly before them.Sir Robert Peel
 supported the Amendment.Sir T. D. Acland
10071006 to present a Petition from British Settlers and others resident at the Cape of Good Hope, praying for a Representative Government. After calling the attention of the House to the importance of the question which the Petition raised, the respectability of the parties petitioning, and the obligation there lay upon the Legislature to protect the inhabitants of that colony from the effects of arbitrary
10071006Lord Milton rose
, in moving that it be printed, said, he was sorry to learn that an improved system of government at the Cape was to be postponed until slavery should be abolished.Lord Milton
 presented a Petition, signed by 7,000 or 8,000 Journeyman Bakers employed in London, Southwark, Westminster, and in different other places within ten miles of the Metropolis, praying that the House would adopt some measure to prevent the necessity of their pursuing their worldly avocations on the Lord's Day.Mr. Hobhouse
1074 observed, that this Petition, coming as it did from a large body of Christians, who felt themselves called on to pray for relief from a Christian legis-
1074Sir T. Baring
 supported the prayer of the petition; and hoped that the hon. member for Westminster would move for a committee to inquire into the subject.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said,he entertained a different opinion. No inquiry nor consideration was necessary, nor could the House afford any remedy to the alleged evil. To legislate on it would be most useless, and he hoped the House would be better employed than in making the attempt. The master bakers had the remedy in their own hands. They might, if they pleased, shut up their shops on Sunday.Mr. Hume
 presented a similar petition from seven or eight hundred Master-bakers of London and the parts adjacent, praying for the repeal of the existing law, by which they were compelled to bake dinners within certain hours on a Sunday, and were thus prevented from attending divine service.Mr. Alderman Wood
 wished to ask the hon. Members who were pressing these petitions on the House, whether the measure they proposed, of absolutely preventing Bakers from baking dinners on a Sunday, would not be more injurious to those who were, by the present custom, enabled to send their humble provisions to be baked on Sundays, than it could be beneficial to the Bakers? Not only would these poor people be put to much inconvenience, but they would, by being obliged to stay at home to cook their own dinners, be prevented from going to church, as they were now accustomed to do. So that, even the measure now proposed was meant in favour of religion, it was one of the most short-sighted measures that could have been imagined. It reminded him of an attempt, made in a similar spirit, to prevent the barbers from shaving on a Sunday morning, by which, if successful, the advantage of hundreds would have been sacrificed for the ease of one.Mr. Slaney
 addressed the House in behalf of Sir Jonah Barrington, whose case he described as one of very considerable hardship and severity. The hon. Member read several letters from Mr. Lamb (now Lord Melbourne) to Sir Jonah Barrington to shew that Mr. Lamb, when Secretary of Ireland, knew of the testimony which could be adduced against Sir Jonah. The first letter, he said, he would read was as follows, and was datedMr. D. W. Harvey
1080 could not see very clearly what he had to do with the conduct of his predecessor in office, even if the hon. member for Colchester had made out any case against that predecessor. But the hon. Member had made out no case against Lord Melbourne. Instead of it being true that Lord Melbourne had been conversant with the evidence of Mr. Pineau, the fact was directly the reverse. Part of Mr. Pineau's evidence had, indeed, been taken in March 1828: but that was a very unimportant part, relating merely to fees and to the practice of the court. It was not until the month of May that that part of Mr. Pineau's evi-
1080Lord F. L. Gower
 could not understand why a private and confidential letter, written from one friend to another, should have been dragged forward on this occasion. He wished to state, that inquiry originated in consequence of representations made by the mercantile interest of Cork, as to the mode of conducting business in the Admiralty Court. Certainly, in the investigation which ensued, it had been established that Sir Jonah Barrington had made an improper use of the suitors' money, and after that fact it was impossible for the Government to proceed otherwise than it had done.Sir J. Newport
1081 thought, nothing could be more unjust than to attribute any thing improper to the noble Lord, who had conducted this business. This was not—how could it be, or how could any one say it was—a party question, or that party feelings were in any way mixed up in it? All that could be said upon it, and it did not lie in Sir Jonah Barrington's mouth to say it, was, that the proceedings had been carried on too slowly and with too much lenity. Allow him, as a member of the Irish bar, to protest against the production of that confidential letter which had been read by the hon. member for Colchester. He agreed that the contents of that letter were creditable
1081Mr. O'Connell
 could assure the hon. Member that he did not object to the production of that letter. When Gentlemen considered the distressing situation of the individual in whose possession the letter was, how could any one object to the production of it, if that individual fancied it could do him any good? When he first joined the profession, Sir Jonah Barrington was at the head of his circuit. Sir Jonah had always treated him with a degree of kindness and friendship which he could not forget—which made him rejoice that he was not called upon to take any very active part in these distressing, but, he must add, just and necessary proceedings.Mr. Doherty
1082 said, he had a Petition to present from Sir Jonah Barrington. It expressed the petitioner's regret that his counsel at the Bar should have confined himself, in his speech to constitutional
1082Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel) opposite. An address for the removal of Sir Jonah Barrington had been agreed to, and a noble Lord was now on his way to the other House to request the concurrence of their Lordships to it. Suppose both Houses sanctioned the address, then the Crown would have, on deliberation, to determine whether the request contained in the address should be granted. The question, therefore, which he had to ask, and he asked it merely for information, arose out of the very delicate matter which had last night been communicated to the House. Would his Majesty exercise the royal consideration with respect to this address; or was it intended that the persons who were to be appointed in consequence of the message of last night, should exercise the royal deliberation as well as the performance of the mechanical office of signing public documents?Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that the hon. Member appeared to him to mistake altogether the object of the message of last night. His Majesty was perfectly capable of exercising discretion and deliberation, and the message of last night merely stated that bodily indisposition made it inconvenient and painful for his Majesty to sign with his own hand those public instruments which required his sign manual. No Minister would presume to attach his Majesty's signature to any document upon which the pleasure of the Crown had not been taken; much less to an instrument for the removal of a Judge. His Majesty's pleasure would be taken upon this, as it was taken upon every other case; for he had the satisfaction of assuring the House, that his Majesty was at that moment as competent to exercise his mental faculties as he had ever been at any other period of his life.Sir R. Peel
 presented the Petition from Sir Jonah Barrington; read and to be printed.Mr. D. W. Harvey
1083 reported, in answer
1083Lord F. L. Gower
 reported, that the committee had had a conference with their Lordships; and had delivered the Address agreed to by the House, which their Lordships promised to take into consideration.Lord F. L. Gower
1084lls.,lls.,llad valorem presented a Petition from the Lead Miners and others engaged in the manufacture of Lead, in the parishes of Alston and Allendale, Northumberland, complaining of the distress they suffered from the competition of foreign manufacturers of Lead, and praying for a higher protecting duty. The hon. Baronet entered into some details, showing the changes which had taken place in the duties on copper, tin, and lead, since 1825, when a new scale of protecting duty was arranged respecting them, different from the 1084lls.,lls.,llad valoremSir J. Graham
 supported the prayer of the petition, and contended, that if these persons were put out of employment, they would be thrown back on the market for labour, and thus increase the difficulties of the working classes.Mr. Liddel
 said, it was not his intention to follow the hon. Baronet into all the topics he had introduced, and this was the less necessary, as the question to which the petition referred was now under the consideration of the Government. The greatest attention must be paid to it before any decision was come to. He hoped, however, in the course of a week to have a better opportunity of addressing the House on the subject, and therefore he would forbear saying anything further at present.Mr. Herries
l hoped that nothing would be done to give advantages to Lead miners, beyond the regular course of trade; and protested against taxing the rest of the community to the amount of 90,000lMr. Warburton
 opposed the Bill, and moved, as an amendment, that it be read a third time that day six months.Mr. J. Daly
 argued in favour of the Bill. It was only intended to carry into complete execution the principle adopted by that House of admitting Catholics to the offices of the State as well as Protestants.Mr. Spring Rice
 opposed the Bill, as giving the whole power of the Corporation of Galway into the hands of Catholics.Mr. Trant
1116 objected to the Bill, that it robbed the corporation of a portion of its privileges. The Charter of that town was violated by the Act of George 1st, and this
1116Mr. North
11001099 said, that he rose to second the Motion of his hon. friend with the greatest pleasure, from the perfect concurrence which he felt in his views. The principal difficulty he experienced in arguing the point was, to anticipate by what arguments the adoption of the Resolutions could be opposed. The principles they enunciated were become so much axioms in the science of politics, as to have been long since placed, in this country at least, beyond dispute. They affirmed the importance of separating the legislative and executive from the judicial functions; the importance of giving independence to judges, and a national character to the higher branch of the legislature of a free colony. Upon the first point, he should content himself with the authorities of Paley and Blackstone; the former having said, "The first maxim of a free state is, that the laws be made by one set of men, and administered by another; in other words, that the legislative and judicial characters should be kept distinct." The words of Blackstone were equally impressive:—"Nothing is more to be avoided in a free constitution, than uniting the provinces of a Judge and Minister of State." This much-reprobated union of incompatible characters prevailed in the greatest degree in Canada. As the House had heard from his hon. friend, the same person advised in the morning in the Executive Council, that certain laws should be proposed, voted upon them in the afternoon in the Legislative Council, and administered them in the evening on the bench. Nor was that merely a theoretical evil,—the greatest practical evils had already resulted from it—the Judgeshad been converted into active political partizans;—they talked in the legis-
11001099Lord Sandon
11021101 addressed the House, in vindication of the conduct of his Majes-
11021101Sir George Murray
11041103 did not by any means agree in the conclusion to which the- right hon. Secretary had come on this subject. On the contrary, the whole tenor of his speech went to support the
11041103 Lord Viscount Howick
1105 did not wish to prolong a discussion on which so little substantial difference seemed to have arisen. It was his intention to do no more than express his satisfaction at the statement just made by the right hon. the Secretary for the Colonies. As a member of the Canada Committee, he begged to remind the House, that when the Committee recommended that Judges should not hold seats in the Legislative Council, it intended that the principle should be brought progressively into operation; and not that those Judges, now holding seats, should be immediately removed. That principle had been fully recognised by his Majesty's Government. The right hon. Secretary said, he concurred in the recommendation of the Committee, and he must congratulate Canada upon that declaration, as it was a pledge that his Majesty's Government meant to act on the recommendations of the Committee. He felt himself pledged to the resolutions proposed, because they embodied the principles of the Report agreed to by the Committee; but he did not wish those resolutions to be passed, because he thought with the right hon. Gentleman, that they conveyed a censure on the Government which it did not deserve. He should be sorry to see those resolutions passed, because, although they expressed the unanimous feelings of the House, and the opinion of Government as to Canada, yet he felt himself called upon to vote against them on the grounds stated by the
1105Mr. Wilmot Horton
 thought, the way to preserve the important line of coast which we possessed in Canada was, not by fortifications, but by conciliating the people. He thought the people of that colony entitled to all the advantages of a connection with this country, and all the benefits of local Governments combined—they ought to have a free and independent Constitution. Their Government was formed upon the model of the British Constitution, and means should be taken to assimilate it to that of this country, by connecting the Legislative Council with the people of the colony. Now, it was impossible that the people of Canada could look with confidence to a Council composed of persons in the service of the Crown, and removable at pleasure. Notwithstanding what might be said to the contrary, he would maintain that those Resolutions were founded upon the Report of the Canada Committee, and for that as well as other reasons they should have his support. He thought it most desirable that the House should adopt them.Lord Althorp
 conceived, that the House ought to be satisfied with the assurance given by Ministers. When any reasonable doubt could be entertained of their professions, it would be time enough to call in the authority of the House; he therefore recommended that, for the present, the Resolutions should be postponed; They would, he feared, mar the good effects of the measures of Government in Canada.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
11071106 thought, that the spirit in which the right hon. Gentleman had referred to the Resolutions proposed by his hon. friend, demanded some observation. He thought it would be difficult for any person to object to these Resolutions who did not object to the principle; and accordingly, the right hon. Secretary did not object, either to the principle or the Resolutions; but he objected to the time when they were brought forward. The principle contained in them involved nothing less than the existence of a free constitution in Canada. The sooner the House distinctly declared its opinion on that subject the better, and every moment that was delayed was improperly lost. The House was at length called upon to act in the true
11071106Mr. J. E. Denison
cries of "Question, Question1108 thought, that the thanks of the House were due to his hon. friend, for having brought forward his Resolutions, and to his right hon. friend, for the manner in which he had shown his willingness to carry the Resolutions of the Committee into effect. It was essential that those Resolutions should be followed up, in order to show that there was no intention of having one government at home and another abroad; and he trusted that they should never again hear it contended that the Colonies were not to enjoy the principles of our Constitution, He main-
cries of "Question, Question1108Mr. C. Grant
 said, he would take that, opportunity of expressing a hope that no more time should be lost, for every moment that was lost reduced the chance of doing good. With respect to the right hon. Gentleman, however, he thought that it was but justice to say, that he seemed to have done every thing that the time would permit. To pass the Resolutions would be unfair towards the Government; he regretted that they had been proposed, and he hoped that they would not be adopted.Mr. Sheart Worthy
1109 said [amidst many marks of impatience in the House] he hoped his hon. friend would press his Motion to a division, for the purpose of satisfying the people of Canada that there was a party in that House that took an interest in their welfare. He said this, because he knew that the eyes of the people of Canada were turned on that House. Some hon. Members might not take that interest which he and others did in this matter, but as he held in his hand an address
1109Mr. Hume
 suggested to the House, whether it would not be better to take such a course as would induce the people of Canada to look, not to any particular individuals who might happen to be in office, but to the people of England as represented in that House. He therefore trusted that his hon. friend would persist in his Motion, not for the purpose of holding out to Canada that there was a party ready to take their case under its protection, but to show them that there was a principle in Parliament, and a general feeling also, that the grievances of the Canadians ought not to be less considered in that House than the grievances of the people of England.Lord Milton
1110said, he had been asked, whether he did not think that the Judges ought to be independent of the Crown? This was a difficult question to answer in general, as much depended on the nature of society, on the state of the Colony, and on the nature of the inducements held out to men to accept judicial situations. The great point to be aimed at was, a pure and impartial administration of justice in the Colony. The Mover and Seconder of the Resolutions that had been proposed to the House, had supported them in a manner which indicated that it was necessary to force his right hon. friend to adopt the recommendation of the Committee; but it had already been pointed out by his right hon. friend, that he had not only adopted the principle, but had actually carried it into practice, by seizing the opportunity afforded by three vacancies to appoint the successors in accordance with the suggestion of the Committee. As the Resolutions were meant to apply a stimulus to the Government, which his right hon. friend had shown that the Government did
1110Sir Robert Peel
1090 Sophonisba"PollyQuam quæ sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus.""Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem,1089Hamlet1088Golden Rump1087pleno jure1086 rose to move for leave to bring in a
1090 Sophonisba"PollyQuam quæ sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus.""Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem,1089Hamlet1088Golden Rump1087pleno jure1086Mr. Lennard
1092sll1091 observed, that as he had been connected for a considerable period with one of the great theatres, he wished to say a few words on the present occasion, although he was extremely reluctant to do that when the press of business was so urgent. The hon. Member was misinformed when he stated that compromises took place between the patentees of the large, and the owners of the minor theatres. No such thing occurred, and each of them stood upon his own rights. He could also assure him that the Patent Theatres had no wish respecting his Motion one way or the other. He was sorry not to see in his place, the Paymaster of the Forces, for he would be
1092sll1091Mr. George Lamb
Tom Jones could not understand why the stage was not to be supposed to have become sufficiently purified to be left without Censorship. In all other branches of literature a purification of taste had taken place. Of this the celebrated novel of Tom JonesMr. O'Conncll
ssllsbsssssdssbds1114bss said, he was far from thinking that a Select Committee was necessary in this case, and he hoped that he should satisfy the House, that the question lay in so narrow a compass, and the facts were so plain and simple, that it might come to a decision at once, without the intervention of a committee, as to whether the prayer of the petitioners ought to be granted. As his hon. friend had stated, in the year 1825, by an accident, the duty on Tobacco, which it was intended to continue at 4ssllsbsssssdssbds1114bssThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not see that the petitioners suffered any peculiar hardship, although he regretted their distress. They had a monopoly of the home market, and were able to send some thousand tons abroad; and if the price had fallen, the protection had risen with the fall. Lead, too, was not a mineral on which he was disposed to allow much protection, because it did not enter into many of the articles of exportation to other countries.Mr. A. Baring
 complained that the Lead ore had never been sufficiently protected like other ores, and that, in consequence of this want of protection, the export trade had dwindled down to 5,000 tons annually.Lord W. Powlett
ll1115sds said, that he was not a little surprised at the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had met this Motion. He alleged, as a reason for doing injustice in 1825, that no additional charge had been made on the manufacturers for the stock in hand, when the duty was raised from 3ll1115sdsMr. Charles Calvert
1113sssss1112 in moving that the Petition from the Tobacco Manufacturers of London, Westminster, and Southwark, praying for Repayment of the Duty which had been paid on Stock prior to July 5, 1825, and presented on February 17, be referred to a Committee, observed, that he made that Motion from a conviction impressed on his mind, as well as on the minds of the
1113sssss1112Mr. Chas. Calvert
ss entreated the Chancellor of the Exchequer to pause before he yielded to the representations of the petitioners on this subject; because, by increasing the duty from 10ssMr. P. Thomson
 said, that in the last six years the country had exported 59,000 tons, being an average of 10,000 tons a year. His hon. friend said, the quantity produced was 45,000 tons a-year; and, therefore, he could sec that nearly one-fifth was sent out of the country. The price of that quantity was, of course, regulated by the price in the foreign market; and the price at which it could there be sold, as we had more than we required, regulated the price at home; no relief, therefore, could be obtained by a protecting duty, and the only way in which the Lead owners could hope for relief was, by persuading the Government to lower the price of labour, and so put the English in the same state as the Spanish labourer.Mr. Hume
 said, that the Lead-mines of this country not only supplied the home consumption, but sent some thousands of tons abroad; of course the price abroad must be settled by foreign competition, but as long as the miner supplied the home consumption, it was all that he could claim or pretend to; and, indeed, unless they could shut up the Spanish mines altogether, the price in foreign countries must be regulated by competition.Mr. Huskisson
 having intimated that he would not object to the hon. Member for Maldon's bringing in a bill at as early a period in the next Session as he might think proper,—the Motion was negatived without a division.Sir Robert Peel
1093 concurred in the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. Looking at the state of the stage before and after the passing of the Act, there was nothing to induce the House to remove the censorship. He confessed he had not the confidence which the hon. Mover had in the good taste of the public; and was by no means satisfied that, but for the Censorship, immoral and blasphemous dramas would not be received with applause; neither did he believe that the
1093Sir Robert Peel
1085 said, that the root of all the mischief was in the high protecting duty on corn, which in one way or another amounted to from forty to fifty per cent;
1085Lord Milton
 did not mean to oppose the Motion, but he had an objection to one of the clauses of the Bill. He confessed he felt some surprise that such a Bill should have been brought forward in the absence of the Secretary for the Home Department. It made an important alteration in the law, and ought to receive the most mature consideration.Mr. Sturges Bourne 
 said, that the principle of the Bill was monstrous, and he was quite certain that it could not pass in its present form.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that when those poor persons came to the parishes they must be relieved. Now the effect of this Bill would be to refuse them relief, and therefore, against such a Bill he conceived that every sort of opposition was perfectly fair. He had presented several petitions against it, and was resolved to divide the House rather than allow it to pass.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, he also had presented petitions against the Bill, and he hoped the worthy Alderman would take the sense of the House upon it.Mr. Denison
 said, that in the parishes with which he was more immediately connected, they were often put to an expense of several hundreds a year for the removal of these paupers. He did not think the Bill so objectionable as his hon. friends did.Mr. N. Calvert
1130 saw no reason why the more distant counties should not have the benefit of the Act—the Bill ought to place all upon the same footing of equality. Perhaps it might be found advantageous to try the experiment of leaving those paupers without any parish relief; if due notice of such a system were given, it would be found that their
1130Mr. Littleton
 thought, that if a sufficient provision were made for the Irish poor in Ireland, such a Bill as the present would be unnecessary—it was in effect a Bill to deprive England of the benefits of Irish labour.Mr. James Grattan
 understood the object of the noble Lord to be, to have the Bill read a second time and submit it to a committee, for the purpose of seeing if any measure of relief could be devised. So far he meant to support the Motion.Mr. Estcourt
 anticipated, that in the course of next Session some provision would be made for the Irish poor, but he thought that the present Bill would have the effect of imposing a heavy burthen upon one part of the country at the expense of another; it might be as well to wait and see what measure the necessities of Ireland can into existence.Sir E. Knatchbull 
 opposed the waiting. Even if they did wait, the counties still might be left without relief.Sir T. Freemantle
 said, that he looked upon the Bill as so injurious to the metropolis that he should vote against it.Mr. Byng 
 thought it a very fair proposal of his noble friend, that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. That would pledge the House to nothing further than an examination of the Bill.Sir John Wrottesley
 was convinced, that the large populous parishes of Middlesex had very unnecessarily taken alarm at the Bill; and if it were sent to a committee it might be shown that no such evil would accrue.Colonel Wood
 supported the Motion. The principle of the Bill might be hereafter discussed should the Select Committee recommend it.Sir R. Inglis
 said, that though he would not refuse to give his consent to the second reading, yet he was desirous that it should have reference to the kingdom at large rather than to any particular parts.Mr. Maxwell
1131 said, that they ought to inquire into the cause of the evil: that cause was the want of employment; and by finding employment for the people the evil would be removed. He therefore wished that country gentlemen would give
1131Mr. A. Dawson
 found fault with his brother Magistrates for not putting the Vagrant Act in force; he contended that sending vagrants to the House of Correction, especially in cold weather, was no punishment at all. A little timely rigour sometimes made the blind see, and the lame walk.Sir C. Burrell
 persisted in dividing the House, but there not being forty Members present, the House was counted out.Mr. Alderman Wood
 stated the proceedings that took place in the Court of Chancery upon an application about the sluice. There was ultimately a decree of the Court, to the effect that the sluice was a nuisance. It was, however, unjustifiable in the people of Rye to take the law into their own hands. Their going by night to destroy the sluice was, in his opinion, an aggravation of their improper conduct.The Solicitor General
 then said, that he had a Petition to present on the same subject from the Dean and Faculty of Advocates of Edinburgh, and he felt highly flattered in having been selected for the purpose of presenting the Petition by so distinguished a body. In the present instance all that the petitioners asked was, that the measure might be allowed to stand over till the next Session, suggesting that all the improvements of which it was susceptible might then be made. They wished not to be understood as being by any means unfavourable to the principle of the Bill, for, on the contrary, they were all, with seven or eight exceptions, most favourable to it—the only thing they desired being some further delay, so that the details might be duly considered.Mr. Brougham
1146 felt very happy at seeing such a spirit of honourable independence evinced by the learned body from whom this Petition came, more especially when he considered that one great object of the Bill was to do away with a number of useless places, which the mem-
1146The Lord Advocate
 supported the Bill, and said that much inconvenience would be experienced if it were not carried through as soon as possible.Mr. Kennedy
 said, he meant to offer no opposition to the Motion, and he expressed his cordial concurrence in the principle laid down by the right hon. Baronet. He had long felt the evil of having different duties in the different countries, and he should be glad to see a general scale of duties adapted to all parts of the country. We might then get oft' drawbacks, and certainly we might get rid of many frauds. Since he had been in office he had endeavoured to equalize the duties, and had carried this object into effect with very beneficial consequences as to glass. He hoped that he should be able to do something of the same kind with other duties.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he felt pride in bearing testimony to the liberality with which the parties were actuated on the present occasion. Though all their personal interests would be directly injured by the proposed measure, yet they never once suffered their minds to be warped in the conclusion at which they had arrived with regard to it. This was a test to which the members of the legal profession in England had not yet been put, but he hoped that, when they were put to it, they would follow the example of their brethren in Scotland.Mr. Brougham
 said, that there could be no danger arising from the precedent established in this case. It was admitted that no other measure could have been adopted in the present emergency. With respect to the danger of forgery, he thought that none could arise. As so many safeguards were provided, he could not conceive a scintilla of danger to exist. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, there must be the indorsements of three out of seven of the Cabinet Ministers, so that it would be necessary to forge not only the impression, but also all these different hand-writings. It could not be denied that the Government had, in this instance, discreetly fulfilled its duty. If the addition of the clause suggested by the hon. and learned Member would not delay the measure, he saw no objection to it; but he hoped that it would not be made the means of any delay of the Bill.Mr. Bernal
 begged merely to observe on the subject of the punishment of the forgery of this stamp as an act of treason, that he hoped the number of treasonable offences would not be extended.Mr. Lennard
1172, referring to the Bill brought from the House of Peers for the regulation of the Court of Chancery, said that he intended to propose that it should be read a first time to night, and that the second reading should be fixed for the 10th of June, when the discussion might be taken. He hoped that this arrangement would be satisfactory to the House, and that it would allow him to name the same day
1172The Solicitor General
per tot discrimina rerum was of opinion that this important subject well merited a separate day's discussion. The subject of the Court of Chancery had been postponed in that House for two Sessions, in consequence of the expectation of the bill which had just made its appearance from the House of Lords. Why it had been so long delayed he knew not, but per tot discrimina rerumMr. Brougham
1180distringas;1179l1178 said, that his object was to accomplish what he was persuaded would prove a great national benefit, with as little opposition as possible, and therefore his aim had been, to remove from the Bill, as far as possible, everything to which objection might be taken. In doing that, however, it was scarcely to be
1180distringas;1179l1178The Attorney General
1188 declared himself hostile to the measure, in principle
1188Sir William Vaughan
 had many objections to the details of the Bill, but would vote for going into a committee.Colonel Wood
 concurred with the Home Secretary, and thought that no Member had a right to oppose the Speaker's leaving the chair on the ground of objection to details instead of principle. He asked, was there any one who was satisfied with the present number of Judges or with the present state of the Welsh Judges? Was there any one who wished that these Judges, practising at the bar, and influenced, perhaps, by political motives, should be not of the same class, of a different stamp, and of another character, from the other Judges who were to administer the laws of the land? There was a great cry throughout the land for a reform of the law, but directly the Government tried to carry any reform into execution, one Member cried out "dont touch this," anoother cried out "dont touch that;" one cautioned the Government against meddling with the ancient jurisdiction of a Principality, and another talked of the rights of a county palatinate, and if they were to go on so, all reform would turn out to be idle declamation. Hon. Members made various objections to the measure, but at all events they ought to go into the committee.Mr. Brougham
 opposed the measure, and especially the union of Welsh and English counties. It would be better for Government to remedy the abuses of the Court of Chancery than meddle with the Welsh Judicature, which was well administered.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
 said, that the Welsh Administration of Justice required amendment, but he objected to taking away the whole Welsh jurisdiction. That, the Welsh regarded as one of their greatest privileges, to which nothing offered by that or any other bill could possibly be an equivalent.Mr. Owen
 said, he believed that the feelings of the great majority of the inhabitants of Chester were, as the hon. Member who had already spoken, said, decidedly hostile to the measure. He was happy to hear that some of the points recommended to the consideration of the Attorney General were likely to meet his favourable consideration, and he hoped they might do something to make the Bill more palatable to the people of that county. He hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not unite the large and populous county of Chester, containing 100,000 inhabitants, with the small counties in its neighbourhood. On the whole, he was glad that the Bill had been amended, but he could not yet give it more than a very languid support.Lord Belgrave
 complained of the manner in which the Bill had been brought in, and thought that it was such a mixture of different things that it must be divided into three Bills. He objected also, as there were no petitions praying for such an alteration for Wales, to taking away the local jurisdictions from that country. He was of opinion that the Bill could not well he passed this Session, and he hoped the Ministers would reconsider the measure.Mr. Bernal
 said, that one reason why there was no opposition to the bill in going through the House was, that there was no Member then in the House to represent the interest of the town of Rye. The Court of Chancery decreed the sluice to be a nuisance, and yet a new bill was brought in, in the face of that decree; by which bill only seven feet of water would be left in the harbour. He was not much surprised, under all the circumstances, that the people took into their own hands the execution of the decree of the Court of Chancery.Mr. Otway Cave
 observed, that the great object appeared to be for certain landed proprietors to consult their own immediate interests at the expense of the people and harbour of Rye.Mr. Otway Cave
 supported the Motion because he believed that great abuses existed in Ceylon, which the committee might be the means of remedying.Sir C. Forbes
 was opposed to the principle of making it obligatory upon Scotch Juries to be unanimous in their verdicts. From the information he had received, he believed that the people of Scotland were by no means favourably disposed to the measure.Sir C. Forbes
11531152 said, that there certainly were precedents of kings of this realm having, instead of their own hand-writing, used a stamp, impressed with their own hands; but no cases had occurred, he believed in which the King had issued a commission to authorise persons to sign for him by a stamp. It was necessary to advert to this distinction; if his Majesty used a stamp with his own hands the only difference was between the impression being made with the stamp and with the pen.
11531152Sir C. Wetherell
Colchus an Assyrius, Thebis nutritus an Argis.1182pro hâc vicel1181 said, that the Bill, when he first saw it, was but the skeleton of a bill. It was now considerably altered; that was to say, limbs had been amputated, and features had been added, so as completely to change its appearance; and what with the additions which had been tagged on, and what with the parts which had been detruncated, it was quite something else from what it had originally been. It seemed to him to be chiefly divided into
Colchus an Assyrius, Thebis nutritus an Argis.1182pro hâc vicel1181Sir C. Wetherell
 hoped that the Attorney General would not press that stage at present.Sir Charles Wetherell
11651164ex post factoll was of opinion, that the hon. member for Beverley had made out a case which demanded inquiry, for he had shown that there existed in this interesting colony the very worst system of government; nor had his statement of the evils under which it laboured been at all answered by the right hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member below had stated, that the revenue of the colony was less than the expenditure, to the amount of 100,00011651164ex post factollMr. O'Connell
 condemned the present regulations of the Irish Register Office, and stated that since the passing of the new Act more expense was incurred, and confusion created, than formerly.Mr. O'Connell
 opposed the Bill. The great complaint against the law of this country was its expense; and it appeared to him that the present measure was rather calculated to increase than diminish that.Mr. Davies Davenport
pro tanto1176ll1175sic volo, sic jubeo, stat pro ratione voluntas1174ipse dixit1173 said, he was surprised, when he reflected that this Bill had been framed by a learned Gentleman, who had passed the greater part of his political life on the Opposition benches. So far as the wants and wishes of the people were consulted by that Bill it might have been drawn up by the Grand Vizier, and would then have been quite as well adapted to the people as the Bill that had been drawn up by the King's Attorney General. What did this Bill do? In the first place, it multiplied all the difficulties which the inhabitants of the county of Chester and the Welch counties now complained of, and it changed the character of their system of judicature. He should have been quite ready if the Bill had been for the advantage of Chester, to waive his objections to a great many clauses of it;
pro tanto1176ll1175sic volo, sic jubeo, stat pro ratione voluntas1174ipse dixit1173Mr. Edward Davenport
1144 in moving that it be printed, contended that it was a very dangerous precedent to allow the Magistrates to call in the military whenever they
1144Colonel Evans
 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of Rye, complaining of the Interference of a military armed force, under the direction of Herbert Curteis, Esq., on the occasion of a recent disturbance at that place between certain landowners and other persons, relative to the sluices which served to clear the harbour. The hon. Member entered into a detail of the disturbance which took place there on the 26th ultimo., he justified the conduct of the people and considered the interference of the military as illegal.Colonel Evans
1177 meant to confine the few observations he was about to make entirely to the operation of the Bill on the county of Chester, with which he was particularly connected. The Bill went to alter the whole machinery connected with the Administration of Justice in that great commercial county. The Courts established there had, for many centuries, independent rights, and were not identified with the Courts of Westminster-hall. They possessed as ample a jurisdiction in the county of Chester as any of the Courts at Westminster in any part of England. Having existed so long, it was not surprising that they should want some little amendment; and his hon. friend, who had just addressed the House, must admit that they required reform in various particulars. In the course of time they had acquired various defects, like the other courts in the kingdom. He would not enter into a detail of those defects, but undoubtedly amongst the advantages of the system, some defects had blended themselves, and become parts of it. In some points therefore, reform was necessary; and he would not say that no advantage could be derived from the changes proposed by the Bill. He considered that it would be a great advantage to have the Judges from Westminster-hall to preside in the Courts of Cheshire. It was notorious that the Chief Justice of Chester had generally been appointed from different motives, and upon different principles from those acted upon in the appointment of other Judges. In this point of view, therefore, there would be a decided advantage to the county of Chester; but
1177Mr. Wilbraham
1162l1161"May it please your Lordship, we, the undersigned, respectfully beg leave to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's very kind and condescending letter of the 10th instant, accompanied with the eighth and ninth reports of the African Institution, the perusal of which we did not delay, in consequence of the honourable distinction which your Lordship has shewn in addressing us on so important a subject, with the laudable and humane view of directing our attention to the measure which your Lordship has heretofore proposed in the year 1806. We sincerely beg leave to assure your Lordship, that the proposal conveyed by your Lordship's letter is gratifying to our feelings; and it is our earnest desire, if possible, to disencumber ourselves of that unnatural character, of being proprietors of human beings; but we feel regret in adding, that the circumstances of every individual of us does not allow a sudden and total abolition of slavery, without subjecting both the proprietors and the slaves themselves to material and serious injuries. We take the liberty to add, that the Slaves of the Dutch inhabitants are generally emancipated at the death of their owners; as will appear to your Lordship, on reference to their wills, deposited in the records of the Supreme Court; and we are confident, that those who are still in a state of slavery, have likewise the same chance of obtaining their freedom. We have therefore, in following the magnanimous example of those alluded to in the afore-
1162l1161"By order of the Council," &c.11601159115811571156lllll., l, in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the Revenue and Expenditure of the Island of Ceylon, said, that he wished 1o put the House in possession, by that means, of some information in addition to that which had been already afforded it through the Finance Committee. By a Return on the Table of the House, made up to the 1st of December, 1824, it appeared that the debt of the Island of Ceylon of every description, amounted at that period to the sum of 463,2011162l1161"May it please your Lordship, we, the undersigned, respectfully beg leave to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's very kind and condescending letter of the 10th instant, accompanied with the eighth and ninth reports of the African Institution, the perusal of which we did not delay, in consequence of the honourable distinction which your Lordship has shewn in addressing us on so important a subject, with the laudable and humane view of directing our attention to the measure which your Lordship has heretofore proposed in the year 1806. We sincerely beg leave to assure your Lordship, that the proposal conveyed by your Lordship's letter is gratifying to our feelings; and it is our earnest desire, if possible, to disencumber ourselves of that unnatural character, of being proprietors of human beings; but we feel regret in adding, that the circumstances of every individual of us does not allow a sudden and total abolition of slavery, without subjecting both the proprietors and the slaves themselves to material and serious injuries. We take the liberty to add, that the Slaves of the Dutch inhabitants are generally emancipated at the death of their owners; as will appear to your Lordship, on reference to their wills, deposited in the records of the Supreme Court; and we are confident, that those who are still in a state of slavery, have likewise the same chance of obtaining their freedom. We have therefore, in following the magnanimous example of those alluded to in the afore-
1162l1161"By order of the Council," &c.11601159115811571156lllll., lMr. John Stewart
 said, the provisions of the Bill were very little known in Scotland, and that if they were well known there would be many petitions against it.Mr. John Stewart
 adopted the recommendation of the noble Lord (Althorp), and altered his Motion accordingly.Mr. Stewart
11871186 expressed his regret that there was not time to enter into a full discussion of the measure then before the House, which he considered very important,
11871186Mr. John Williams
ddd hoped, that the right hon. Gentleman would carry into effect his views as to Soap and Candles, and at the same time reduce the duty on them. The quantity of smuggling, at present carried on in these articles, as he should be able to prove when the motion of the hon. member for Hull came before the House, was enormous. The duties at present amounted to 4½dddMr. Hume
l1170lll1169lllllll1168lllllllllll1167lllll1166l could not allow the question to go to a division after the very insufficient reasons brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman for opposing the Motion, without expressing his opinions on the subject. The way in which it was attempted to slur over and excuse every instance of abuse in our colonies was not to be borne. In his opinion this was a case crying for inquiry and reform, not only as related to the pecuniary affairs of the colony, but as to its trade, its judicial administration and its government. The speech of his hon. friend did him great honour, and it would find its way where it would be sure to take effect. So gross a case had not been brought before the House for the last two years. There had been a vast increase of the judicial and all public establishments in all the colonies during the time that Lord Bathurst was Colonial Secretary. Five years ago 350,000l1170lll1169lllllll1168lllllllllll1167lllll1166lMr. Hume
 found fault with the hurried manner in which the late bill for Rye and other private bills were passed through the House. He could not approve of the conduct of those who proceeded riotously to break down the sluice; but it ought to be considered that they had provocation, seeing that the Court of Chancery did not enforce its own decree, and that the Commissioners disregarded it. That was the state in which the petitioners were. He hoped that the Admiralty, as the general conservator of ports and harbours, would take notice of the case, and would not let the bill pass through Parliament, but would see that the decree of the Court of Chancery was carried into effect.Mr. Hume
1145 would suggest to the hon. and gallant Member not to press the printing of the Petition, as the subject was now under consideration. At the same time he thought it the duty of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Deparlment, to oppose to the utmost extent the
1145Mr. Hume
118511841183 wished to say a few words on this occasion, chiefly because he had been intrusted with the presentation of a Petition against the measure now under consideration, from a most important town in the county of Chester, the populous town of Macclesfield. He intended to present that petition this evening, but had not an opportunity of doing so; he therefore begged to state that the inhabitants of Macclesfield were decidedly against the measure, and no parties were more deeply interested in its progress. Their petition ought to be attended to; and on such a subject the humblest petition which came from the county, or the smallest remonstrance which it sent forth, on a subject of vital consequence to its interests, ought to receive the most serious consideration. All the large towns in the great and wealthy county of Chester were opposed to the Bill. It was not to be supposed for one moment, that the well-
118511841183 Mr. Sadler
 said, it was quite a mistake to suppose that the landowners in the neighbourhood of Rye desired the ruin of the harbour.Mr. Burrell
 maintained, that Mr. Curteis acted with great discretion and firmness. If the rioters had been allowed to proceed with the work of destruction, a great deal of valuable land would have been ruined.Mr. Burrell
 agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and bore testimony to the proper conduct of Mr. Curteis.Sir Charles Burrell
 observed, that it would be convenient, while the General Committee was sitting upon Indian Affairs, to have another distinct committee on the state of Ceylon, and whatever the recommendation of the committee might be they might afterwards be considered.Mr. Trant
1143 said, that the landholders near Rye had no bad feeling towards that town. There was no opposition made to the bill as it was passing
1143Sir Edward Knatchbull
 maintained, that the hon. and gallant Member was misinformed in stating that the market had been removed to Winchelsea, and he explained, that what he said about giving security was, that the troops would be withdrawn whenever security was given that the peace of the town should not be disturbed.Sir E. Knatchbull
1163l said, that he had not expected that so many observations, not strictly referring to the question itself, would have grown out of the hon. Gentleman's Motion. To many of those observations he should feel it unnecessary to advert. He was very willing to admit that the finances of the Island of Ceylon had been labouring under considerable difficulties—difficulties arising from the expenses which had attended the Kandian war—and from other circumstances. The hon. Gentleman had, by implication at least, recommended the introduction of the principles of free trade into the Island of Ceylon. Those principles had been tried there with respect to cinnamon; and the result was, that, in the course of a single year, the revenue had fallen off 50,0001163lSir George Murray
1155 expressed a wish that
1155Sir R. Vyvyan
 said, that it would be printed by a very early hour in the morning.Sir R. Peel
1154 said, that he had not thought it necessary to trouble the House with any further details before, but there was a precedent for a commission to authorise a party to attach a stamp, instead of the Royal hand. It was in the reign of Mary, and it was really curious and remarkable how closely the precautions adopted on that occasion coincided with those provided by the present Bill. The precedent had only been discovered yesterday, after this Bill was prepared, and if the House had any curiosity, he would read it. The right hon. Baronet then read an extract from the 5th and 6th
1154Sir Robert Peel
 said, he was sure that when the noble Lord thought of the circumstances under which the Bill was proposed, he would not press his proposition. The House had his Majesty's distinct assurance, in his gracious Message, that he was labouring under indisposition which rendered it painful and inconvenient to sign the various official documents presented for that purpose. He entirely concurred in the opinion that it was necessary to be cautious in a step of this nature; but when the House had the Royal Message, saying that it was painful and inconvenient to his Majesty, he thought it would not be respectful to imply a doubt of the fact.Sir Robert Peel
115111501149 said—"Sir, in moving the first reading of a Bill intended to make a temporary provision for enabling his Majesty to affix his Royal Signature to those public instruments which require that formality, I must repeat, in concurrence, I am sure, with the unanimous feeling of the House, and of this nation, my deep regret at the circumstances which have rendered this application to Parliament necessary. It is, as his Majesty has informed the House by his gracious Message, on account of the indisposition under which he is labouring, painful and inconvenient to the King to attach his sign manual to the multitude of official instruments which require the Royal Signature to give them validity. I must at the same time state that, under all circumstances, when application has been made to his Majesty for his signature to any instrument, the completion of which was necessary to the public service, particularly instruments connected with the administration of justice and pardons, when it was thought fit to extend mercy to those who had received a penal sentence; on all such occasions, whatever pain or in- convenience affixing the Signature might have subjected the King to, his Majesty never suffered those considerations to stand in the way of his desire to facilitate the administration of justice, or to exercise his Royal prerogative of mercy, and
115111501149Sir R. Peel
 said, he felt bound to commend the liberality of the learned professions, not only in this, but in all other instances that had come to his knowledge. There was no error more vulgar than that which would impute interested motives to the members of those professions when the public good was concerned. He was enabled to state from experience that he had received essential assistance from members of the legal and medical profession in some public measures upon which he had consulted them.Sir R. Peel
 said, that it was usually considered the most painful duty of a government to oppose reform;—but here, the greatest difficulty the Government lay under was, when they attempted to effect improvement. The object was to render law cheap and expeditious; and for such an object local distinctions ought to be sacrificed. Hon. Gentlemen, on this occasion, had altogether omitted the principle, although this was the stage for discussing it, and had involved themselves in details which would be properly considered in committee. He appealed to the House whether there were not alterations needed in the Courts here, so as to equalise the business; and if three additional Judges were necessary, what objection could the people of Wales have to the presence of these three Judges to despatch their business, instead of the present number of eight, who were gentlemen practising at the bar, and perhaps Members of that House. It should be recollected that the people of Wales had often complained that their Judges had not salaries adequate to make them independent; and this, if there were no other reason, ought to satisfy them with the appointment of independent Judges, whose time would be altogether directed to the administration of justice. He would not go into the details of the Bill, but repeated his wish that it might be allowed to go into committee.Sir Robert Peel
 said, it was no part of his duty to interfere with the progress of any bill that was before the other House of Parliament; neither did he think that he was called upon to interfere officially with private bills in any respect. Presuming even the alleged grievance to exist, he still thought that it ought not to be redressed in a tumultuous manner. If the parties should find that they had a right to abate the nuisance by law, there would be no opposition whatever offered on his part.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that he would not give any opinion on the question between the people of the town of Rye and the Commissioners. He absented himself from voting on the bill, upon the principle that it was better for a Minister of the Crown not to interfere in giving an opinion on a private bill. The time for making repairs in the sluice would not, by law, expire till 1831, and yet, at ten o'clock at night, about 500 persons, preceded by a band of music, went to level it by force, and so destroyed the communication between Rye and Dover. He felt it his duty to say, that the magistrate (Mr. Herbert Curteis) acted with promptitude and temperance. The men in the Preventive Service were called to assist in putting down the rioters. Rye was not a place from which the Blockade Service could be safely drawn away, and, in order to let them attend to their own duty, he (Sir R Peel) ordered troops to go in aid of the civil service. There was no alternative but to give protection to property. He hoped the gallant Colonel would interfere with his constituents, and advise them on their conduct in this matter. The Magistrate was perfectly right in preventing the destruction of the sluice by night and by violence.Sir Robert Peel
1142 stated his impression to be that the sinecure office was already abolished by law, and that there were no vested interests existing. He could assure the hon. Baronet and the House that before the office was filled up ample opportunity should be given for taking the subject under consideration. He felt assured that there was no disposition on
1142Sir R. Peel
 briefly supported the prayer of the Petition. The proposed measure would very much increase the expense.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 could not see that the learned Lord had any occasion to be in a hurry on that account, as the Jury bill would not expire before the end of the next Session.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 took this opportunity of urging the Lord Advocate to fix some early day, prior to the 10th of June, for the debate on his measure, which had excited great attention in Scotland, and was, in fact, of the highest importance to that country.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
ss1147, in rising to move for some Returns relative to the Duties on Soap and Candles, observed, that, under the present state of the law, as the manufacturer of these articles in England was allowed a drawback on exporting them, he was able to undersell the manufacturer in Ireland, after paying the
ss1147 Sir John Newport
 said a few words in explanation in a low tone of voice, and the conversation dropped.Sir John Newport
, seeing the right hon. Secretary of State (Sir. Robert Peel) in his place, wished to draw his attention to a recent occurrence of public interest. By the death of Lord Kilwarden the office of Registrar of Deeds in Ireland had become vacant. He (Sir John Newport) considered the present a very fit opportunity for the Government to show its disposition for retrenchment, by abolishing the office of Registrar altogether, as it was a mere sinecure, and there could not be any noise about vested interests, which were now extinct. He wished to see the regulation of these offices on the same footing throughout the United Kingdom, and he considered that the excellent regulations adopted in the Register Office in Scotland afforded an example worthy to be followed. He therefore hoped that the Government would pause before it filled up the appointment; and, if it really were intended to continue it, that the House would previously have the opportunity of expressing its opinions on the expediency of its continuance.Sir John Newport
 did not mean to press for any specific information. He merely threw out the suggestion.Lord Althorp
 said, that it must be the wish of every hon. Member present to do whatever was in his power to alleviate the sufferings of his Majesty, under the unfortunate circumstances in which he was placed. The only difficulty in the case was, the necessity of using great caution in establishing a precedent, which might be so important in its consequences. To the statement of the right hon. Baronet, so far as his own opinion went, he saw no objection. He only wished to suggest, whether it would not be proper, before the Bill was finally passed, to have some evidence that his Majesty was in such a state, as to render a measure of this nature necessary. It was to the possible abuse of the precedent hereafter that his hesitation applied. They ought to be particularly cautious to prevent any application of it without a sufficient necessity. He did not mean to object to the reading of the Bill at present, but before it was finally passed he hoped the House would have some proof of its necessity.Lord Althorp
 thought, that the state of the colony required examination before a committee, and suggested that the word "commerce" ought to stand first in the Motion, in order that, if it were carried, the committee to be appointed might first investigate that part of the subject, so as not to anticipate the Report of the Commissioners, which might be expected in July.Lord Althorp
 said, that when the subject was before the House yesterday, he had expressed a wish that the physicians should be examined; and though they were informed of the King's health upon the responsibility of those who, from their situations, were bound to be scrupulous, yet he still confessed he should rather have had the testimony of the physicians. Upon reconsideration, however, he thought that as the intended duration of the Bill was very short, he would not press for the hearing of evidence by the House; but should it become necessary to renew the Bill between this and the close of the Session, he should feel it proper to call upon the House to hear the testimony of the physicians: at present he should not give the Bill any opposition.Lord Althorp
 said, the only question that called for any remark was the effect of the Bill as a matter of precedent. As the indisposition under which his Majesty at the present moment unhappily laboured did not affect the Royal mind, he considered that the safeguards establish-ed offered sufficient security. As forming a precedent, care should be taken to guard against its being used as a pretext under which, in the event of the Royal mind suffering in any future reign, the Ministers for the time being might keep the King away from the members of his family, or otherwise abuse so great and important a power. He should have thought, therefore, that the examination of the physicians would have been advisable, and in all future cases that course, in his opinion, ought to be pursued. He was perfectly satisfied with the securities provided by this Bill; and if at any future time valid objections should be raised against it, the means of obtaining further securities would be still accessible. The Bill was now understood to pass under the full conviction of Parliament, that it had been informed, upon the responsibility of Ministers, that the Royal mind was not affected by the malady under which his Majesty was suffering, so as to incapacitate him from signifying his pleasure in any case where the Royal signature was necessary.Lord John Russell
1195 entirely concurred with the noble Lord who had just sat down, in thinking that the present Bill was chiefly important in the light of a precedent. It was important to mark the distinction between a new method of signifying the Royal pleasure and a delegation of the Royal authority. It was important, too, that the Bill should not be made to extend beyond a mere case of bodily incapacity for affixing the Sign Manual, and by no means to reach a case wherein the Royal mind might be affected, nor even a case where it might be necessary to delegate the Royal authority in consequence of its being thought material to the recovery of the Sovereign that he should altogether withdraw his mind from business. In such a case it would, of course, be quite right that the Ministers should call for the aid of Parliament in such delegation; but that was a remedy perfectly distinct from the present. As to the existing state of the Royal mind, they had abundant evidence in the form of the Bill, that it was not affected, while that form prevented
1195Mr. C. W. Wynn
 wished to say in reply to an observation made last night, respecting the crime of forging the Royal Signature stamp, that in the Regency Act there was a clause, enabling his present Majesty, then Prince of Wales, to sign "George, Prince Regent," and the Act did not make the forging that signature treason, but forgery. On the present occasion, the precedent afforded by that Act, was strictly followed; and most hon. Members, he had no doubt, would consider the punishment of forgery abundantly sufficient for such a possible offence. The other precautions contained in the Bill better provided against forgery than would any extraordinary severity which they might introduce in the nature of a penal enactment.Sir Robert Peel
1196 said, that the qualification of jurors presented considerable difficulty. The jury system was not sufficiently understood in Scotland to give that weight to the opinion of the Judge which it ought to have. If the whole working of
1196The Lord Advocate
 said, he intended to lay a Bill on the Table of the House relative to Burghs, and afterwards submit it to a committee above-stairs. He also intended to introduce a gaol-bill this Session, to be discussed in the next.The Lord Advocate
 said, that he was perfectly ready to submit the measure on any open day; but he really had not yet had any opportunity of bringing it forward.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1192 observed that, if this
1192Colonel Lindsay
 stated, that this Petition was for the appointment of a second committee to hear an appeal against the decision of the first. He objected to the proposition because both those who had to receive and those who had to pay the sums of money directed by that committee were satisfied with its decision; and the only opposition proceeded from the petitioner. That person had long ruled the Corporation of Dumbarton, which had no just claim to any compensation; and now wished to get compensation, and to have that money paid to the creditors of the Corporation, of whom he himself was the most important.Mr. Home Drummond
de novo argued, that it was never intended that the appeal committee, when appointed, should try questions of this sort de novoSir J. Graham
prima facie contended, that the resolution of the House would not bear the construction put upon it by the hon. Baronet, and that all that was required for the appointment of an appeal committee was the making out of a prima facieSir R. Inglis
 begged the House to pause before it opened the door to unnecessary appeals, for the sake of vexation and delay. He opposed the application.Mr. William Dundas
1193 observed, that the House could not be too cautious in granting the prayers of petitions of this sort. He verily believed that substantial justice had been done by the committee, and he was sure that every member of the committee was anxious only to do justice. He should not oppose the appointment of the committee of appeal, because the original
1193Mr. Sykes
 believed that the inhabitants of Dumbarton were entirely satisfied with the decision of the committee, but nevertheless, he wished the appeal to be allowed.Mr. Kennedy
l. thought that sufficient grounds had been laid for the appointment of a committee of appeal, on two grounds, first, that the original committee had given compensation to the extent of 16,000l.Sir F. Freemantle
 was of opinion that the first committee had exceeded its powers, and that the appeal ought to be allowed.Mr. John Campbell
 replied, and insisted that the present was exactly the case contemplated in the Standing Order. Substantial justice might have been done, but the parties were, and had reason to be, dissatisfied.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 supported the Motion. He admitted that the new establishment had already been more useful than he had anticipated, but he was yet to learn that the old system could not have been so modified as to have produced equally beneficial effects. The hon. Baronet was, perhaps not in the House when the Police Bill passed, or he would have recollected that the hon. member for Bristol, and himself, had given to that Bill a strenuous, though ineffectual opposition. He was ready to acknowledge that this force, which was a sort of military body, might produce no mischief under the present Secretary of State, but in the hands of a different Minister it might be dangerous. It was a force on which the House ought to look with constitutional jealousy, and he hoped that the hon. Member who had now moved for these Returns, and other hon. Members who had opposed the Bill, would keep a watchful eye over it, or it might turn out very disadvantageous. As long as it was in the hands of an honest Minister like the present, it might do no harm; but in other hands it might be made the instrument of evil.Mr. Lennard
1201 said, he had made no al-
1201Mr. Lennard
 said, if the Metropolitan Police were to be conducted on the same principles ns that at Brighton, it would be purely a military body.Lord Encombe
 said, that on a former occasion he had stated, that he was well aware of the importance of the Deep-Sea Fishery, and that the Government had determined to take the subject into consideration. He had stated at the time that there were great difficulties belonging to it, and that he saw no reason to encourage the hopes of those who asked for the continuance of the bounty. After consulting with the other branches of the Government, particularly that branch of it which regulated the finances, he was prepared to state that it was not the intention of the Government again to propose the continuance of the bounty on the taking and curing fish. It would be his duty shortly to introduce a bill to continue, for a limited time, that part of the establishment which had for its object the marking, and assorting, the cured fish. The utility of continuing that for some time longer was admitted, but beyond that he must say, that it was not the intention of his Majesty's Government to propose any further encouragement for the fishery,Mr. Herries
 agreed with his hon. colleague in expressing regret at hearing the determination of his Majesty's Government. There was a vast deal of capital employed in the Fisheries, which would be injured by that determination.Mr. Pendarvis
 inquired of the right hon. Gentleman opposite whether the Bill for establishing Courts for the recovery of Small Debts was again to be brought forward?Mr. Lennard
l1203 presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Parish of St. Luke, praying for the Repeal of the House and Window-tax. That Tax, if repealed, he believed, would give much more relief than the Repeal of the Taxes proposed by the
l1203Mr. Alderman Waithman
 presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Ward of Castle Baynard, complaining of the present restrictions on the right of voting in the City of London, and praying the House to adopt some measure for the extending the Franchise to all Freeholders.Dr. Lushington
 said, he was satisfied that none of the representatives of the City of London would object to an extension of the number of voters, although they were compelled to pay their respects to upwards of 14,000 in every three or four years, when an election took place. The prayer of the petitioners, if granted, would extend that number to 5,000 more, because it was undoubtedly true, that a very great number of the freeholders had it not in their power to become Liverymen. He was sure, however, that the Members for the City could have no objection to make them so, and he did not think there would be any great opposition to the measure on the part of the Liverymen themselves.Alderman Wood
 did not mean, he said, to argue the question of the Assessed-taxes with his hon. friend; he only rose to remark one inconsistency in his statement. His hon. friend impugned the Composition Act, because it gave relief to the rich; but why did not the poor embrace the same opportunity of compounding? The way was open to them as well as to the rich; and if they did not compound it was their own fault. It would be his duty to introduce a bill, after the holidays, to continue the Composition Act.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1229ll1228llllllll1227ll12261225122412231222 spoke as follows:—I cannot but feel, Sir, considerable em-
1229ll1228llllllll1227ll12261225122412231222Lord John Russell
1230 was understood to say, that he would, on all occasions, give a decided and unqualified vote against Reform. He complained that the hon. member for Clare's speech was of the same temper and character with those which he had made in other places, and the tendency of which was, that all property should be excluded from any influence in the House of Commons. It was, in his opinion, a fundamental principle of the Constitution, that property should be represented, and he was convinced it had a most beneficial influence on the House. The experiment of representing numbers and not property had been tried elsewhere without success, and in 1780 an American of high character and talents, who had been since elected to the Presidency (Mr. Madison) inquired if the principle adopted by the States, of representing persons only, was a wise one, and he demanded if it were not a more just idea that property should be represented. The hon. Gentleman argued at length against the introduction of universal suffrage, and of voting by ballot. He contended that the popular voice alone would have prevented every improvement which had taken place in the legislation of the country; that if universal suffrage had been in existence at the time of the Revolution of 1688, we should still have had the Stuarts on the Throne,—that if it had been in existence in 1715, the Protestant succession would have been set aside,—and that if it had been in existence last year, the Catholic Relief
1230Mr. Stuart Wortley
12341233Had it been greater there were none at all.My wound is great because it is so small; did not approve of the manner in which the hon. And learned Gentleman had brought forward this Motion. He did not wish to argue more than one question at a time, but, for all that, he must make a few remarks on the Motion of his hon. friend. When the comparison was instituted between a House of Commons with 257 placemen in it, and the present House of Commons, and the House was told that Parliament was subservient to the Ministers, they must suppose, as the subserviency had become greater as the number of placemen had been diminished, that if there were no placemen whatever in the House, things would be still worse. This argument reminded him of the old verse,—
12341233Had it been greater there were none at all.My wound is great because it is so small;Lord Viscount Valletort
1240sed hic non est locusIn pejus ruere, ac retro sublapsa referri.Maxima quæque manu legeret. Sic omnia fatisDegenerare tamen; nî vis humana quotannisVidi lecta diu, et multo spectata labore,12391238ll1237deprendi miserum estin flagranti delicto1236 assured the House, he should trespass upon its attention for a very short time, and say as little as his duty would allow. He should feel little embarrassment in stating the vote that he should give on the present occasion. In giving that vote he should be governed by a precedent derived from the conduct of a great man, a very great man, Mr. Fox, when voting upon a question of Reform introduced by another great man, Mr. Pitt, in the year 1785, when he brought forward a motion like the present, that the House should resolve itself into a committee of the whole House for the purpose of considering a bill, the object of which would be to effect a reform in the representation of the Commons House of Parliament. So completely, however, did Mr. Fox dislike the plan of Mr. Pitt, that were it any other case, excepting that of Parliamentary Reform, nothing would have induced him to support it; but rather than give a handle to the enemies of that cause, he did vote for it; so completely was he the friend of reform. Even if he, therefore, differed from the hon. and learned member for Clare, which he did not, he should still support his Motion for the reason given by Mr. Fox. In the speeches of the hon. Gentleman and noble Lords who spoke on the other side, the Members had heard their own praise sounded—a task that must have been pleasing to the individuals by whom it was performed, and which could not have proved unacceptable to the House itself—for who was there who did not desire to hear his own praises sounded? The hon. Gentleman who had spoken last described himself as unworthy to be the advocate of such a cause. Now, there he differed altogether from the hon. Gentleman; for he thought the advocate and the cause extremely well matched. He had done for the cause exactly what it deserved, which was just nothing at all, but he had all the merit of good wishes. Nothing could have been more remarkable and peculiar than the nature of that hon. Gentleman's advocacy; he pitched upon the case of the much calumniated boroughs; would he permit his recollection to be refreshed respecting those boroughs? He must have dipped into history sufficiently
1240sed hic non est locusIn pejus ruere, ac retro sublapsa referri.Maxima quæque manu legeret. Sic omnia fatisDegenerare tamen; nî vis humana quotannisVidi lecta diu, et multo spectata labore,12391238ll1237deprendi miserum estin flagranti delicto1236Mr. Hobhouse
hear, hear, from Mr. O'Connell125112501249124812471246ll1245 said, that the question of Reform had been so often discussed, that it was in vain to hope to be able to throw any new light on the subject, and he should therefore, as the right hon. Secretary had done, confine himself strictly to the two propositions before the House. With respect to the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman, to the greater part of it he could not agree; and as he did not find that there was any intention of dividing it into parts, he should be reluctantly compelled to vote against it. With two parts out of the three he could not at all concur, and therefore he was reluctantly compelled—he said reluctantly, because he was always sorry, reformer as he was, to vote against any measure of Reform—he was reluctantly compelled to oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned Member. In the proposition, however, of his noble friend, he entirely concurred, as he also did in the bulk of his Resolutions, which he apprehended to be both moderate and safe. He did not materially differ from what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary on the point of pecuniary compensation to disfranchised boroughs, for he saw great difficulty as to the way in which that principle was to be applied. He could not at all comprehend how the money was to be paid, or to whom it was to be given: perhaps the noble Lord might have some propositions on that subject which he had not yet brought forward; but as he (Mr. Brougham) was at present advised, he should be reluctantly compelled to differ from that part of the Motion. With respect to the other portions, however, they appeared to him to be moderate, reasonable, and eminently practicable; and he totally differed from the right hon. Secretary in the objections which he had taken to them. The first objection brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman was, the supposed difficulty that there would be in their application. Now he could not at all see that difficulty; and if there were points left unexplained in detail in his noble friend's proposition, it was no doubt with the view of explaining them in a committee, where alone those details could be fully entered into. But that there was any confusion as to what towns were to have the franchise, or which of their inhabitants were to vote, he could not believe, and he must say, that he had never heard a more chimerical ob-
hear, hear, from Mr. O'Connell125112501249124812471246ll1245Mr. Brougham
12531252"Whole life was one continued lie?" proceeded—What his noble friend said was very true; but all that he wanted particularly to urge was, that the secret was sure to be betrayed, and must, at some time or other, come to the cars of the landlord. All these facts showed very clearly, how groundless was the expectation that election by ballot would accomplish the purpose in view. But here he might be permitted to ask, with much deference to his hon. and learned friend, and those who agreed with him on the subject, whether, though it must fail in this respect, it might not, at the same time, fully accomplish one of the blackest and foulest purposes of any that could debase and destroy the character of man? Whether it would not make a hypocrite of a man throughout the whole period of his existence? Whether it would not, as was forcibly described by an eminent writer, make him exist as a person whose
12531252"Whole life was one continued lie?"Mr. Brougham
 said, in explanation, that his observations, upon which the hon. and learned member for Clare founded the argument, that he would make the people slaves, proceeded on the supposition that the tenant had a harsh landlord, who would be disposed to enforce his power against him; not that he believed the people would suffer such power to influence them against their conscience and their rights. He admitted that slavery was worse than hypocrisy, except that the worst proofs of slavery were falsehood and hypocrisy.Mr. Brougham
 then moved as a Resolution, "That it is expedient to extend the basis of the Representation of the People in this House."Lord John Russell
 said, as there was likely to be a debate on the subject, and it would be an injustice to the Bill to take the debate at that hour, he should move that the debate be adjourned.Lord Morpeth
 also expressed his regreat the determination of the Government, which would throw a number of industrious people out of employment.Mr. W. Duncombe
 presented a Petition from the Deep-Sea Fishermen and Fish-curers of the North Riding of Yorkshire, praying for a continuation of the Bounties on Fishing. He hoped the President of the Board of Trade (whom he saw in his place) would be able to state that he meant to give the industrious class, whose petition he had presented, the protection and encouragement they prayed for.Mr. W. Duncombe
 suggested the propriety of reviving Courts that already existed for the recovery of Small Debts, which would do away the necessity of compensation.Mr. D. W. Harvey
1216s1215ss1214lls1213121212111210l12091208120712061205 said, that in conformity with a notice of long standing, he rose to apply for leave to bring in a Bill, for securing an effectual and Radical Reform of the Commons House of Parliament. Although he did not anticipate any very great degree of success to a motion of that kind, in a place where he feared there were but a very few Radical Reformers; and although he felt he did not possess such a degree of weight in that House as would enable him to enforce those great principles of constitutional right, of which he was about to attempt to be the humble advocate, yet he possessed the gratifying conviction, that those principles were widely spreading, and exclusively adopted by the most numerous and influential classes of society—that every day increased the advocates of those principles, and brought home conviction to every mind of their overwhelming necessity; and he was not more sure that to-morrow's sun would
1216s1215ss1214lls1213121212111210l12091208120712061205Mr. O'Connell
1254"Question." rose amid cries of 1254"Question."Mr. O'Connell
11981197 said, he had several Petitions to present against the proposed scale of Stamp Duties. One was from a meeting of Bankers held in Dublin, comprising men of all parties, and which was most respectably attended. These petitions pointed out how very injurious that measure would be to the interests of society, and they stated their conviction, that as a measure of finance its practical result would be, not the improvement of the Revenue, but the distress and dissatisfaction of the people. They represented also the inevitable consequences of the proposed alteration in the Corn-spirit duties, as involving the ultimate ruin of the Irish distilleries, and as calculated to give a fatal blow to the agricultural interests of Ireland. They stated their cordial satisfaction at the relief afforded to the people of Great Britain by a considerable remission of taxes; but they could not help deprecating the endeavour to supply the deficiency of revenue attending that relief, by imposing additional burthens on Ireland, at a time when she sustained with difficulty those already pressing upon her. They therefore prayed the House not to sanction any measure calculated to increase the taxation of Ireland. He should next present Petitions to the same effect from several of the municipal bodies of Dublin, and he must be permitted to say, that, from the unshaken loyalty to the British Crown, and firm attachment to British connection which have always characterised these portions of his Majesty's subjects in Ireland, he had a right to claim from every friend to both an attentive consideration of
11981197Mr. G. Moore
 supported the petition. He believed, from calculations he had made, that there were not less than 170,000 surcharges within the last two years; but even taking the smaller number stated by the hon. Alderman, it was a proof of a most oppressive system. These Taxes ought to be repealed. The composition for them even had been productive of evil effects—it had separated the opulent classes, who compounded for these Taxes, from their poorer neighbours, and deprived them of all interest in procuring the Repeal of them. By the present system, the rich escaped, and the small shop-keepers were ruined. The abolition of the Shop-tax had augmented the rent of houses, and the House-tax being levied on the increased rent, that abolition had given little or no relief to the small shop-keepers. But so it ever was in this country. The aristocracy threw the burthens of taxation off their own shoulders on the shoulders of the humbler classes.Mr. Bright
 wished to know when it was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to give the House the proposed Stamp Act, as it would require several days' attention before the House could be called on to give its decision on the subject. When the Stamp Act came under discussion, he should feel it his duty to move that two penny, three penny, and sixpenny stamps should be repealed, as they were found most vexatious by the poorer classes of the country. He also objected to the Act because, as he understood, it re-enacted all the former penalties which were most oppressive.Mr. Bright
 supported the prayer of the petitions. The proposed Duties were not assimilating duties, but Revenue annihilating duties; and he was surprised that so soon after passing the Act of Emancipation, the Ministers, most of whom had been Secretaries in Ireland, should make this attempt upon the pockets of the Irish people.Mr. H. Grattan
1199 said, that he had received a letter from Dublin that day, respecting communications that had been made by some one to the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and which stated, that the Petition presented from the Chamber of Commerce did not really represent the sentiments of that body. He had also
1199Mr. H. Grattan
 receiving no reply said, I shall conclude the Chancellor of the Exchequer has had such a correspondence.Mr. H. Grattan
l.l.l1204 said, that the Assessed-taxes
l.l.l1204Mr. Monck
 seconded the Motion.Mr. John Wood
122112201219lllsChronicum Preciosumss12181217 said, if in rising to oppose the Motion of the hon. member for Clare, he offered no apology for trespassing on the attention of the House, he hoped that he should not on that account be considered deficient in that feeling of respect which would always influence his conduct whenever he ventured to take part in public debates. Had the House been called upon to deliberate on a subject of ordinary importance, he should have felt it more becoming, as on other occasions, to have remained silent. But, there were times and questions, like the present one, which involved the first principles of the Constitution—when it was the duty of every representative of the people, openly to declare his sentiments; and that was the more necessary on the present occasion, because this question of Parliamentary Reform was a second time brought before the House during the present Session, and because there was a disposition throughout some parts of the country to make it appear that the House was every day becoming less popular in its construction, and less careful of the rights of the people. As an advocate for popular rights, as a representative of the people, not chosen by that kind of influence which the hon. member for Clare so decidedly condemned,—he thought it was his duty to oppose the Motion. In the first place he did not think that the measures proposed would remedy the inconveniences of which the hon. Member complained. In the second place, so great a change as those measures would effect, with regard to what may be considered the most important branch of the Legislature, might injure the stability of the whole system of the Constitution. He would readily admit that the right of
122112201219lllsChronicum Preciosumss12181217Mr. Robert Dundas
 inquired if the learned Lord intended to introduce bills in the course of the present Session, redeeming the pledge he had given for regulating the police of the Scottish Burghs, and for regulating gaols in Scotland.Mr. Robert Grant
1200 seconded the Motion. He was persuaded that the more the subject was considered, the more the country ought to rejoice in the changes that had been made; and with respect to expense, the property that was saved was more than equivalent to any additional expense by which the measure had been attended. He considered that this was a most constitutional force, and that the force it had superseded was one of the most anomalous, inefficient, and useless that had ever existed. He was not averse from the Motion, for he was satisfied that the more information we obtained concerning the Police, the more the public would be convinced that the
1200Mr. Spring Rice
1235 also opposed the Motion. He did not think any advantage would arise to the community from the change proposed. The cases of republics were cited as affording proofs of the advantages of popular representation; but when we looked abroad and saw the greatest amongst them, he could not, he confessed, see much to envy in all that she enjoyed. He wished to say a few words in favour of the borough-system, against which so many and such violent attacks had been made, and by means of which it was alleged that so many branches of noble families found their way into that House. If it were true that so many did find their way into that House in the manner stated, as belonging to that class, he must be allowed to say that the other House of Parliament had constant accessions from that House, of men who had distinguished themselves in many instances as advocates of popular rights—and thus a practical compensation was established. It was indisputable, that no Administration could bear up against a system which would oppose to them a constant scene of factious riots and democratic violence and combination, where the best test of integrity would be held to be opposition to the Minister for the time being. The hon. Member then adverted to the influence of public opinion in that House, and concluded by expressing his deep sense of the unworthiness of the advocate, who endeavoured to support so great
1235Mr. William O'Brien
ss was understood to say that the bounty of 1ssMr. W. Smith
 presented a Petition from the Society of Writers at Dundee, and from the Society of Procurators before the Courts of Law in Perth, in favour of the Bill before the House respecting the Administration of Justice in Scotland.Sir M. S. Stewart
 in moving for a Return of the number of persons employed in the Police of the Metropolis, said, he took this course from understanding that there were about 6,000 persons employed under that Act. It appeared to him that the measure altogether was one inconvenient to the public, and he trusted that when those papers were laid on the Table there would be such an expression of the sentiments of the country, that the Ministers would refrain from further increasing that body of men. All the parishes mentioned in the schedule of the bill were, he believed, already under its operation, and Government had the power of extending it ten miles round the metropolis. He hoped however, before there was any Order in Council to that effect, Ministers would allow the country to reconsider the subject. The hon. Baronet concluded, by moving "That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, that he would cause to be laid before the House the number of men employed in the Police of the Metropolis under the Police Bill of 1829, distinguishing the grades of the persons so employed, and the specific number of each grade, together with the Pay and Allowance of all the persons employed; and also all the General Orders issued by the Secretary of State since the formation of the Establishment."Sir R. Vyvyan
 was exceedingly sorry to hear that such was the determination of his Majesty's Government. If there were one branch of industry which was an exception to the doctrine, that bounties ought not to be given, it was the fishery.Sir R. Vyvyan
 said, he was convinced of the utility of such a measure, and the reason why he had not again brought forward a bill on the subject, was the great difficulty of making compensation to the different persons who held freehold offices. There was at present a bill in progress for compensating all the holders of such offices, and when that was passed into a law, he should be ready to bring forward his bill again, or to support the more extensive bill of the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough.Sir Robert Peel
 who came into the House as these observations were concluded said, if he had been in the House when the hon. Baronet moved for these Returns, he should have taken that opportunity of stating that on this subject he was prepared to give the House the fullest information. All the orders which had been issued, both general as well as secret—if there were any, but in fact there were none,—he should be most willing to lay on the Table of the House. There was no sort of information connected with the Police that he was not ready to give. In order, however, to make the Returns to be laid on the Table complete, the House ought to know to what extent the Police had been brought into operation, and what was the extent of the districts it guarded. He would therefore move for an account of the number of districts to which the Metropolis Police had been extended, specifying the number of parishes, and the population of each parish according to the last Population Returns, with the total amount of the population embraced within the districts of the Police.Sir Robert Peel,
 knew nothing of the Brighton Police, except having seen the men. He had readily given all the assistance in his power to such towns as chose to form a police like the Metropolitan Police; but he had taken no other part in their proceedings, though he hoped, that every provincial town would form such a Police.Sir Robert Peel
 said, if there had been any he should have been glad to have produced them, for he was convinced that the efficiency of the Police would be increased in proportion as it was exposed to the scrutiny of the House.Sir Robert Peel
124312421241 said, the question was already so much exhausted, that he would not trouble the House with any general observations upon the matter at issue, but confine himself to the motions which had been made. There were two specific propositions before the House. The one was the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the other the Amendment of the noble Lord. The Motion of the learned Gentleman embraced three topics—Triennial Parliaments, Vote by Ballot, and Universal Suffrage. The Act which altered Triennial Parliaments into Septennial, had been designated by the learned Gentleman a gross usurpation, and he had, on that ground, claimed the going back to triennial Parliaments; but he begged to observe, that the usurpation extended only as far as that one Parliament was concerned, which was elected for three years. With respect to future Parliaments, it had just as much right to make them septennial, as the present
124312421241Sir R. Peel
 objected that the Local Courts alluded to by the hon. Member had not sufficient jurisdiction.Sir Robert Peel
 presented papers, being communications between his Majesty's Government and Prince Leopold, respecting the Sovereignty of Greece.Sir R. Peel
 objected to the Bill, as forcing a Jury-trial upon parties, whether they desired it or not. He was friendly to the Jury system in Scotland, but he wished to see the qualification raised.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
12321231—Sir, with respect to the Motion before the House, although I agree in part with the hon. and learned member for Clare as to the abuses, yet with respect to the remedy for them, and more especially with respect to the mode in which that remedy is to be applied, I confess I have for some time laboured, under very considerable difficulty. Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman has moved for leave to bring in a bill, and in doing so he has stated his objects, and the principles of his intended bill. The first principle he proposes to introduce is that of triennial Parliaments; the second is that of universal suffrage; and the third is the election by ballot. So far as respects triennial Parliaments, I entirely agree with the hon. Gentleman, and I should be most glad to see a return to that practice. During the time, Sir, that this practice did prevail, the country flourished; no objection was raised against it, and the change to septennial Parliaments was merely the consequence of temporary causes which are no longer in existence. Every one who looks to the conduct of every Parliament at its beginning and towards its end must see at once that triennial Parliaments would give the people a powerful influence, and an influence that, would be manifested in the most proper way. Actual experience of the system has proved, that triennial Parliaments were not attended with any danger; and that plan is not therefore a new experiment, but has been tried with success; and believing that if we restore it now it will increase the influence of the people, I am prepared to support a motion for the purpose, as I have heretofore done when a proposition for returning to triennial Parliaments came before the House. With respect to another point, that of election by ballot, I have already, in the course of the Session, expressed my opinion. I am still, after every consideration I could give the subject, of the same opinion—namely, that election by ballot would greatly diminish the expense of elections; that it would do away with improper influence upon the electors; and that it would allow them to give their votes as they pleased, subject, of course,
12321231Lord Althorp.
: The landlord may turn them out for not voting at all.Lord Milton
 said, there could not be more respectable men than the commissioners of that court. He agreed that the present system of Imprisonment for Small Debts was extremely mischievous.Mr. Alderman Wood
12761275 said, that it was his intention to trespass on the attention of the House with only a few observations. He would first remind his hon. and learned friend who brought forward this question, that the commission to which he proposed to refer the consideration of this most important subject was appointed simply to inquire into the state of the Ecclesiastical Courts. Such being the case, the House ought not to assume that that commission could conveniently enter into the consideration of another subject. It would not be right for the House to induce that commis-
12761275The Solicitor General
1281à vinculo1280127912781277 did not think that it was consistent with his duty to remain silent altogether on this most important subject. It was not his intention, however, to enter into a discussion on many of the important subjects which had been referred to as connected with this question, but rather to direct the attention of the House to the proposition of his hon. and learned friend, which went to refer the whole subject of the law relating to divorces, to the Ecclesiastical Commission.
1281à vinculo1280127912781277Dr. Lushington
, when he saw one of the members of the commission in question placing himself in an attitude of supplication, to entreat the House not to throw the burthen of this subject upon that commission, felt himself compelled, however reluctantly, to oppose the Motion. He must distinctly, however, object to the principle of the hon. and learned member for Clare, that there should be no Divorce.Lord L. Gower
13291328 rose, to oppose the Motion, which he did not mean to do, he said, with any asperity of language or feeling, though he had much reason to complain of the hon. Member's course of proceeding. He had no other means of judg-
13291328Lord F. L. Gower
 complained of having been kept in town by the hon. Member having given notice of a general bill for the relief of the poor, which had turned out to be nothing more than a Resolution relative to Poor-laws for Ireland. The hon. Member admitted the necessity of making the poor provident, and he proposed to do this by supplying their wants, whether they were provident or not. Nothing but inconvenience could be expected from adopting the Resolution, till the report of the committee was made, and, therefore, he should oppose the motion.Mr. W. Horton
1330 would not detain the House if it were not that, were he not to say one word, he would seem to acquiesce in what had been said against the committee, which he, as an humble individual, had procured to be appointed. He was bound to defend that committee from the observations of the hon. member for Dover. It was a very fair committee; and one of the names he had placed on it was that of the hon. member for Newark, and he had only
1330Mr. S. Rice
 thought the time was not distant, when they should be compelled to apply to Ireland a system of Poor-laws, but a system very different from that in force in England. The question, however, required the most mature deliberation; and as there was a committee sitting at present to inquire into the subject, he was disposed to await the result of its labours before he assented to any proposition such as that of the hon. member for Newark. He felt it necessary to say this, that his vote might not be mistaken.Mr. Slaney
 denied the views ascribed to the Committee by the hon. Member.Lord F. L. Gower
l.l. proposed a clause as an Amendment, requiring every householder who takes out a license to be assessed at 15l.l.Mr. Monck
 said, he had considered a proposition of that kind before; but he found it would press so unequally in large towns, that he was compelled to abandon it. He had no objection to consent, that the seller of Beer should be a person rated to the Poor and Assessed taxes; but if he consented to fix a limit of amount, it would destroy the principle of the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to any license being required at all, and complained that the Bill transferred the authority of the county magistrates to the Commissioners of Excise.Sir R. Vyvyan
 proposed, that all persons applying for a license should be required to produce testimonials as to character, from persons resident on the spot where the license was to be used.Mr. Slaney
 said, that plan had been already tried, and found unavailing. The securities provided by the Bill would, he believed, be more efficacious than certificates of good behaviour.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declined to press his Motion.Mr. Slaney
 objected to the clause requiring publicans to close their houses at ten o'clock. The Bill was called a Bill for the Free Sale of Beer; and every clause was a restriction on those who might desire to engage in the trade.Mr. Hume
 said, the object was only to give the greatest possible freedom to the sale of Beer that was consistent with good order. The restrictions of which the hon. Member complained were only necessary precautions.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the present mode of taking off the taxes was the most ungracious that could have been devised. The Bill gave universal dissatisfaction, except to a few great brewers.Mr. Robert Gordon
 would regret if his efforts to give relief were as unpopular as the hon. Member represented them. He knew, however, that in many parts of the country the Bill gave great satisfaction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d. said, that the hon. member for Cricklade had given a very incorrect representation of the feelings of the people. It was a great boon to them to reduce the price of Beer by 1½d.Sir R. Wilson
1335 said, that the Bill was objectionable, both as injuring the morals and the comfort of the people. The trifling advantage of lowering the price of Beer would be compensated by a host of evils, and if it were not too late, he would join his voice to that of other hon.
1335Mr. W. Duncombe
 said, he was extremely unfortunate, for he could not please Gentlemen when he laid on a tax, nor could he please them when he removed a tax.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.s. said, that hitherto the poor man had paid 50s.s.Mr. Fowell Buxton
 said, that he too had received several communications from Yorkshire, condemning the Bill in strong terms.Mr. Sadler
 objected to the Motion at that time of night.Mr. Robert Gordon
 said, the Bill was of very inferior importance compared to that which had just been disposed of.Mr. W. Duncombe
13371336 said, that he was sorry it was not in his power to comply with the request for postponement, but to do so at that period of the Session would be equivalent to withdrawing the Bill, and as there was a full attendance of Members interested in it, he should move that the Bill be read a second time. In making this Motion, having had an opportunity of hearing the objections against this Bill, it would be respectful to the House to state very shortly, but distinctly his inducements for bringing it forward; first, with regard to the objection relating to the expenditure of money supposed to be involved by the Bill, he must state that it was his intention, if allowed, to go into a committee, that those parts of it which might induce such expenditure should be omitted, leaving them to be brought forward here-
13371336Lord Morpeth
1339l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1338 said, notwithstanding the noble Lord had taken some pains to explain his views, that the Bill still appeared to him very unsatisfactory. Had the noble Lord given the House information upon two points, it would have been much better able to go into the discussion. In the first place, he had not told the House how he meant to pay the commissioners; in the second place, he said that the Bill invested them with no new powers; but by the Bill they were to have all the powers of the Holyhead Road Commissioners transferred to them. Now, putting aside the fact that the House was thus thrown into a perplexity of Acts, which it was almost impossible to unravel, there were actually two Bills in the House to amend the Holyhead Road Acts. He never saw such liberties taken in legislation. The noble Lord said, that the line of deviation was not so great in England as in Scotland; and that, therefore, there were more Scotch than English Members on the Committee; but there was no concealing the fact that this was a downright Scotch job, to enable Scotchmen to mend their own roads with English tools, that they might walk up from Edinburgh to London by a shorter way than at present. There might, however, be another reason for this measure, there were some individuals in Northumberland who had obtained an Act for carrying a road from
1339l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1338Lord Lowther
l.l.l.1340 was quite certain that the least fault with which the Bill was chargeable, was that of concealment, for it stated all the objects in view in the plainest manner. With regard to the expense attendant upon the appointment of the commission, none of any consequence could arise, for all the surveys had been made, and the clause, giving power to make others, was only precautionary, in case they should be wanted. The business concerning the Northern Roads would be confined to holding meetings. It was his firm conviction, that if this Bill were passed on the principle of consolidation, the sum of money voted for the Holyhead establishment would be quite sufficient to pay the expenses of the new commission. The noble Lord said, that the Bill extended the powers of the Holyhead Commissioners to the Northern Roads; but his noble friend, on moving the second reading, stated, that the whole of the latter part of the Bill was to be omitted, so that no such power as the noble Lord supposed would be given. With respect to what the noble Lord had said relating to the estimates of the Holyhead road, he denied both the accuracy of his statement, and of his conclusions. The subject had been under the consideration of a committee, and its report would be shortly before the House.
l.l.l.1340Sir Henry Parnell
 said, his statements were taken from the returns.Lord Lowther
1341 said, that the little evidence that was taken before the committee on this Bill, and the manner in which it was composed, gave him great doubts as to its propriety; but now that his noble friend himself proposed to strike out half his measure, he was convinced that there must be something very objectionable in it. The better way perhaps would be for his noble friend to withdraw the Bill altogether, and introduce a fresh one, in order that the House might know what it was discussing, for surely he could not think of calling upon the House to affirm a great number of positions which he himself proposed to abandon. His noble friend had stated, that Stamford and Grantham were to be continued in the road; but upon referring to the Bill, he found that the road running through them was only spoken of as one that might be altered. The Bill appointed commissioners, but when the House considered how difficult it was to get rid of commissioners when once named, it would
1341Mr. Heathcote
 said, the hon. Member recommended a Select Committee, but he would advise that the Bill be cast out at once, as a measure utterly unworthy to he entertained by the House. He was well acquainted with the line of road in question, and knew that the travelling upon it was easy, and that every where comfortable accommodations were to be met with; and he could not help looking upon the proposed scheme as a fancy measure of Mr. Telford's, whom he took to be one of those visionary gentlemen who expected to feed upon the public. The most advisable course for the noble Lord to pursue would be to withdraw his Bill, print it if he thought proper, and bring it forward in some intelligible shape.Colonel Sibthorp
1342 said, that it ought to be considered that this Bill contemplated an improvement of no less benefit than that of bringing the capital of Scotland thirty mites nearer to London. When the House
1342Mr. Liddell
1343 could not allow that opportunity to pass without thanking the noble Lord opposite (Lord Lowther) for the very excellent sentiments he had uttered. He congratulated the Treasury benches upon having such a Member, and he hoped that the noble Lord would allow him to remind him of what he had just said when the noble Lord brought forward estimates himself. He had stated, that estimates were always exceeded, and that the House ought to be cautious how it commenced any public work, and he trusted that his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) would take an early opportunity of trying whether these sentiments extended to all estimates. But what was the object of the Bill? The noble Lord said, that it was to appoint Commissioners of Inquiry; but he had also said, that the plans and estimates were already prepared; what then could be the use of appointing a commission? Could not the Postmaster-general send down a surveyor to report which was the best line of road? That
1343Mr. Robert Gordon
1344 said, it was objected to the Bill, that public money was called for by it, but he saw none whatever called for, nor did he believe that it was intended to call for any. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Lowther) said on a former occasion, that this was a bill to obtain English money for Scotch roads. That was not the case, for he could state on his own knowledge, that there were roads in progress in Scotland, along which the intended line was to run, to defray the expense of making which no public money would be called for, although it might be considered desirable to place them under the control of an impartial commission. With respect to the opposition from the neighbourhood of Grantham, he was surprised at that, for there was no system of road-making so bad as that which prevailed in that neighbourhood; and never was
1344Mr. Kennedy
 said, that had it not been for the explanation of his noble friend, he should have been inclined, with the noble Lord opposite, to have opposed the second reading of this Bill; but after the explanation which had been given, he thought that the House ought to allow it to pass that stage, that it might be put into the desired shape. He objected to the Bill, but as it was to be separated into two parts, one of which was to empower a commission to inquire into the state of the roads, and the other to carry into further execution the powers vested in the Commissioners of the Holy-head-road, he would not oppose the second reading. The mail, he might remark, arrived in Edinburgh at three o'clock in the day, and did not leave till eight the next morning.Sir M. W. Ridley
omnium gatherum1345 said, that it was clear that the hon. Baronet agreed to the second reading of he knew not what, since he wished it to be put in such a shape in a committee as would enable him to understand it. If the hon. Baronet comprehended the Bill, he (Mr. Lamb) did not, for he did not know what was to be kept in, and what struck out. From reading it, he could not say whether the Liverpool road was or was not to be included in the Bill, whether the commissioners were to raise money or not, or what roads from Litchfield to South Mims, and from London to Edinburgh were to come under consideration. It skipt about in the most extraordinary manner; and, in short, was such
omnium gatherum1345Mr. George Lamb
 said, as there was only one specific point in the Bill, he could not see any occasion to refer it to a Select Committee.Lord Morpeth
1331 contended, that the
1331Mr. W. Duncombe
 said, that if the worthy Alderman could find any city fund out of which such debts could be paid, his constituents would be very thankful for the discovery.Mr. C. Calvert
12711270a vinculo matrimoniiPie Poudrea vinculo matrimonii1269 began his remarks by objecting generally to commissions to inquire into the law, contending that the appointment of them involved an admission of something requiring to be remedied. He had never approved of commissions to reform any abstract point of law. His hon. and learned friend, with all his talents, had failed to suggest a remedy, and so had other learned men of great talents. The evil arose out of our Constitution, which did not permit any court to exercise legislative power, which granting a Divorce implied. The hon. and learned Member entered into a brief history of the marriage law in England, and its difference from the marriage law of other countries, remarking that marriage was indissoluble in Roman Catholic countries. In Rome there was a tribunal called the Holy-office, which did grant Divorces for certain cases, in which the parties were held incapacitated to contract marriage, but never granted it for adultery. The Pope had sometimes granted Divorces on political grounds, but up to the time he was speaking, the Pope had never, he believed, granted a Divorce on account of adultery. The Pope did, however, grant a Divorce to our Henry 8th in former times, and he had more recently granted a Divorce on
12711270a vinculo matrimoniiPie Poudrea vinculo matrimonii1269Sir Charles Wetherell
 disapproved of the proposition for adopting Poor-laws in Ireland, when they gave so little satisfaction in their method of working in this country. He recommended his hon. friend to withdraw his Motion.Sir C. Wetherell
ab initio1272ab initioa vinculo matrimonii said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, in opposing the Motion, though he differed from him in the grounds of his opposition. He wished with the hon. Mover that the poor should be placed upon the same footing with the rich in regard to divorce, but he would accomplish that, not by giving it to the poor, but by refusing it to the rich. He thought the better way would be to make the marriage tie perfectly indissoluble. It was so by the common law; for up to the time of the Reformation no marriage could be dissolved. It was so by the rule of the Catholic Church, and by that of the Protestant Church also. It was true that divorces had been ganted in the Catholic Church, but not ab initio1272ab initioa vinculo matrimoniiMr. O'Connell
mensa et thoro. said, he was not opposed to Divorces a mensa et thoro.Mr. O'Connell
, in presenting Petitions from Parishes in the County of Cork, against the Vestry Act, said, that the petitioners all complained of the oppressive operation of this Act, the imperfection of which was admitted by Ministers, yet they refused to amend it.Mr. O'Connell
, in moving that the petitions do lie on the Table, begged to say, that he was right in both his positions: first, that Ministers admitted that the measure required a remedy; and, secondly, that they—he would not say refused, but they did that which looked very like a refusal—they strongly declined to take measures to amend it.Mr. O'Connell
1260, in presenting a similar Petition from Ballybay, said, that the Go-
1260Mr. O'Connell
 said, from the speech of the hon. member for Limerick, when he proposed the committee, as well as from the persons of whom it was composed, ten or eleven out of the twelve Members having expressed themselves hostile to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, he certainly thought that the committee was appointed to make out a case against adopting Poor-laws in Ireland. Being of that opinion, he thanked his hon. friend for the Motion; and should he persist in dividing the House on it, he would certainly vote with him, though he must say, that he did not expect from his hon. friend's notice, a motion of that nature. He was satisfied that Poor-laws must ultimately be adopted in Ireland, and therefore he would support the Motion.Mr. J. Grattan
 said, that the application of Poor-laws to Ireland was an act of justice and right, and not of charity; and therefore he felt bound to support the Motion of the member for Newark.Mr. Monck
l.1259s.s. presented a Petition from an individual of the name of Joseph Henry George, complaining of the hardship of Imprisonment for Small Debts. The petitioner stated, that he was confined under sentence of the Borough Court of Requests, for a trifling demand, to the great injury of himself and his large family, and instanced cases of individuals being imprisoned one hundred days for debts of 64l.1259s.s.Mr. Hume
Quœ ab exiguis profecta initiis ex creverint ut jam magnitudine laborent sua1268a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoro1267l.l.l.l.l.12661265126412631262a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoroa thoro et mensaa mensa et thoroà vinculo matrimoniià vinculo matrimonii1261a mensa et thoroa vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoro said, that the subject which he had to bring forward was one of great importance, for the Law of Divorce in this country was different from that of any other country in Europe. By the Roman Catholic Church, marriage was elevated into a sacrament; and, by a canon, rendered indissoluble even in the case of adultery. But in Protestant Europe the pronouncing of a divorce at once gave the parties concerned the right of marrying again. In England the case was very different. The Ecclesiastical Court could only pronounce a divorce Quœ ab exiguis profecta initiis ex creverint ut jam magnitudine laborent sua1268a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoro1267l.l.l.l.l.12661265126412631262a vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoroa thoro et mensaa mensa et thoroà vinculo matrimoniià vinculo matrimonii1261a mensa et thoroa vinculo matrimoniia mensa et thoroDr. Phillimore
12931292â vinculo matrimonii.1291l.l.1290***1289 observed, that although at the commencement of the discussion he had trespassed on the attention of the House at some length, yet he hoped he might be allowed, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, to offer a few observations in reply. He begged to assure those hon. Gentlemen who were so impatient, that he would trespass on their attention as briefly as possible. If the right hon. Baronet had been present at the examination, and during the discussion which took place on the case already referred to, which he was not, he would suggest that this Motion should be given up. He had brought the subject forward with great reluctance, at the suggestion of many hon. Gentlemen who felt, as he felt, how very difficult it would be to originate any legislative measure. He was asked, why not bring in a bill? Unfortunately he had some experience of that course. He had brought in a bill on another subject; and after four or five years toil and trouble, he had the satisfaction of seeing the principle of that bill adopted: but he had sufficient experi-
12931292â vinculo matrimonii.1291l.l.1290***1289Dr. Phillimore
1327Show their eyes, and grieve their heart—""Come like shadows, so depart,And what to these we give to Jove is lent."By Jove the stranger and the poor are sent,Cheer the sad heart, nor let affliction grieve,'Tis ours the sons of sorrow to relieve,Around our realm, a barrier from the foes;"Safe in the love of heaven an ocean flows1326Da pretori, da deinde tribuno,1325Question" from two or three Members.1324132313221321argumentum ad crumenam,13201319131813171316131513141313131213111310130913081307130613051304130313021301130012991298129712961295 rose and said, that in addressing the House on a subject which he had at length obtained an opportunity of bringing under its consideration, he felt that it was little probable that he should be able to do anything like justice to its acknowledged importance;—a subject involving at once the highest principles and best feelings of humanity; one, not merely of a theoretical and abstract nature, but necessary, practical, and operative; not affecting a particular order or small part of the community merely, but bearing first on a numerous though unfortunate class of our fellow-beings, and through them upon the rest, however affluent and elevated; and lastly, Sir, a subject on which opinions the most various, and indeed opposite, are entertained, and each dictating a policy as essentially different—demands for its due and full consideration those qualifications in which (continued the hon. Member) I am as sensible as any one that hears me of my deficiency. Then, Sir, the circumstance of this House having so often entertained questions of the nature I have now the honour to submit to its attention, and to very little purpose; having passed, I think, hundreds of laws in reference to it, many of which, it is now confessed on all hands, were little reconcilable in their operation with their professed object—that of amending the condition of the poor, or the laws made in their behalf,—will render the House, I fear, little disposed to continued projects of a similar nature; while the fact of two or three committees now sitting, I believe, on matters bearing on the question to which I am about to address myself, may render my present course apparently the less necessary to be pursued. Sir, in approaching this subject, I feel forcibly these great discouragements; but I am still more deeply impressed with the duty I have ventured to undertake—that of attempting a general measure, the object of which will be, to better the condition of the
1327Show their eyes, and grieve their heart—""Come like shadows, so depart,And what to these we give to Jove is lent."By Jove the stranger and the poor are sent,Cheer the sad heart, nor let affliction grieve,'Tis ours the sons of sorrow to relieve,Around our realm, a barrier from the foes;"Safe in the love of heaven an ocean flows1326Da pretori, da deinde tribuno,1325Question" from two or three Members.1324132313221321argumentum ad crumenam,13201319131813171316131513141313131213111310130913081307130613051304130313021301130012991298129712961295Mr. Sadler
1333l.l.1332 said, he wished to offer a few observations in reply to what fell from the noble Lord opposite, in reference to his not having more distinctly specified the nature of his Motion when he gave notice of it. The fact was, that he (Mr. S.) was proceeding to explain the course which he meant to pursue, and that it was his intention to propose, in the first place, the introduction of a system of national charity into Ireland, when on that occasion he was interrupted by a call to order, otherwise he should have opened his intentions on that occasion most fully. He begged leave, however, to remind the noble Lord, that when so interrupted, and he was sure most properly, he immediately went and acquainted him, most distinctly, of his intention. He had again, as his hon. friend, the member for Yorkshire, had mentioned, explained his intention that day week. So much for his not having given due notice,—an answer which might apply equally to the remarks of the right hon. member for Newcastle, as well as to those of the noble Lord. Then as to the remark that the national charity of the Poor-law being not deserving of the name, because it was not voluntary, he begged leave to deny that position. As it respected the legislative
1333l.l.1332Mr. Sadler
 withdrew his Motion.Mr. Sadler
12741273 rose to support the Motion of his learned friend, Dr. Phillimore. If he considered the question as one of law only, it would be, indeed, presumptuous on his part to interfere in the discussion; but he felt that the proposition involved many other considerations, some of which went beyond, and others were infinitely above, any questions purely of a legal character. There were two objections taken to the Motion by the learned Gentleman who had preceded him. If the objections were admissible, he was bound to confess they were conclusive. But he differed in essentials from the doctrines lately advanced. If, indeed, there were persons who believed, with the learned member for Clare, that the marriage contract should be indissoluble under all circumstances, this class were not only bound to oppose the present Motion, but to oppose every proposition for a single divorce. He did not anticipate, however, that this doctrine would find many supporters in the House or in the country. Again, if with the learned member for Plympton, persons were really contented with the legislative tribunal which at present decided their cases, they were undoubtedly warranted and justified in resisting any change. But when he considered the events of the present Session—when he recollected, that during the progress of every Divorce bill there had been on all sides one universal
12741273Mr. Spring Rice
1286128512841283â vinculo1282 said, that if he thought, with his hon. and learned friend who last addressed the House, that no beneficial result would arise from referring this subject to a Commission, which should report to the King and Parliament, the considerations that might occur to the commissioners on the present, state of the law; and the various remedial measures which might suggest themselves; leaving it to Parliament to pronounce which of those remedial measures it should consider best-calculated to meet the existing evils; if he thought no benefit would result from that, he should advise his hon. and learned friend to withdraw his Motion. If the commission were to do nothing more than inquire, in his opinion great and most important advantages would
1286128512841283â vinculo1282Mr. C. W. Wynn
 observed, that the constitution of that committee, from which the member for Wicklow had been excluded, who had first brought the subject of the Poor-laws for Ireland under the notice of the House was such, that it was plain that the consideration of the propriety of adopting Poor-laws for Ireland was excluded from its inquiries. He thanked his hon. friend, therefore, for having brought the question before the House with such great ability.Mr. Trant
l.1287 said, the House had some reason to complain of the imperfect notice which the hon. and learned Gentleman had given of this measure—all-important as that was. He was, therefore, rather taken by surprise in being called upon to give an opinion upon it at that moment. He was sorry to be compelled to give a vote on so extensive a subject without the fullest consideration. The question, as it appeared to him, was this:—Was a case of necessity made out for a change in the existing law? and, secondly, was the proposed the best mode of legislating upon the subject? As to the first part of the question, he would
l.1287Sir Robert Peel
1288 said, his argument applied to both species of Divorce. It was well to make it the general rule that there should be no Divorce; but there must be exceptions; yet those exceptions ought to
1288Sir Robert Peel
 would assert, that Government neither refused nor declined to amend the Act. They admitted that it required consideration, and that they were disposed to consider it; but they refused to pledge themselves to a particular course, which was suggested by the hon. member for Limerick, as a condition on which the hon. and learned Member's motion on the subject was to be withdrawn.Sir R. Peel
 said, the hon. and learned Member was quite mistaken—Ministers did not refuse to amend the Act. They refused to pledge themselves to adopt a particular remedy, on the offer made for the withdrawal of the hon. and learned Member's motion on the subject; but they expressed themselves willing to take the whole question into consideration, with a view to the amendment of the Act.Sir R. Peel
 thought the hon. member for Newark was perfectly justified in bringing forward his Resolution at that period of the Session, in order to allay the apprehensions which were entertained on the subject. In his opinion there must, sooner or later, be a provision, in the nature of Poor-laws, for the people of Ireland.Sir R. Wilson
 was glad to hear that the hon. and learned member for Clare was wrong in his law on this subject, because nothing could have been further from his (Lord Stanley's) intention than to revive such enactments. Under all circumstances, he thought the course he had already mentioned would be the best he could follow—namely, to withdraw the bill for the present, and to refer a measure of the same nature to a select committee in the next Session.Lord Stanley
 congratulated the House and the country on the abolition of this barbarous custom, and thought the noble Lord at the head of the government of India was entitled to great credit, for his humanity and firmness in doing that which other Governors-general had been afraid to attempt.Mr. F. Buxton
 said, that as he was anxious at all times not to impede the public business, and most anxious at all times not to obtrude his observations unnecessarily on the House, not having in any motion of his any factious object, or any merely party purposes, and being convinced that the Motion he intended to submit to the House related to a great constitutional question—before he brought it on, he wished to make a proposition to the right hon. Gentleman. His proposition was this:—That his Majesty's Ministers should undertake, without loss of time, to bring in a bill to limit the prerogative of the Crown to import commodities free of duty, to such commodities as were for the use of the Crown, and not allowing it to import commodities free of duty, for sale, particularly the sugar which was sent here in payment of the 4½-per-cent-duties, from Barba does and the Leeward Islands. If Ministers would accept his proposition, and bring in such a measure, it would take away the necessity of making the Motion of which he had given notice, though he should reserve to himself the right, if he were not satisfied with the measure, to bring forward a Motion on the subject hereafter.Sir James Graham
1357 was glad of the opportunity of making that statement before going into the committee, which his right hon. friend would have had to make. It appeared, that according to the principle of the Constitution, nothing was more clear than that it was the prerogative of the Crown to bring into the country any commodities without the payment of any
1357Sir Robert Peel
 said, he should not consult the feelings of the House if he did not accept the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. He hoped, when his Majesty's Ministers brought in a measure to limit the prerogative, that it would be such as would command the assent of Parliament. He was glad to see the Ministers undertake this from a sense of what was due to constitutional principles; and in particular the measure gave him satisfaction, as it prevented him from trespassing on the House at some length. It would be more satisfactory to the House and the public also to see the Ministers do this, not from compulsion but a sense of duty.Sir James Graham
 took the opportunity to call the attention of the Colonial Minister to the monopolies which existed in Ceylon. They had been adverted to the other evening, and must be, he was quite sure, inimical to the prosperity of the colony and. destructive of its revenue,Mr. John Stewart
 expressed his unfeigned satisfaction at what he had heard from his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State, and that it was his intention to bring in a bill to avoid trying the question of extreme right. With his right hon. friend he held that the right was clear and unqualified in the Crown to bring in all the articles that were required for the consumption of the Crown, free of duty. Such was unquestionably the prerogative of the Crown; but it was one thing to state that prerogative as a question of a constitutional character, and another to stand on the exercise of an extreme right, when that might tend to public inconvenience. It was clear that by the law the sugar sent in. payment of the 4½-per-cents might be exempt from duties, but he denied that the order given two years ago, to exempt those sugars from the payment of duty, was consistent with the public advantage. Let the House look at the practical result of such a measure. A person went into the market and bought some of this sugar that was sent here in payment of the 4½-per-cents; he would buy it at the market price, and he would pay for it what was called the long price, which included the duty; the broker who sold the sugar would hand over the proceeds, duty and all, to the agent for the 4½-per-cents, but the purchaser might go immediately afterwards to the Custom-house, and, if he exported that sugar, demand the whole drawback. That was a state of things that was open to many inconveniences, and ought not to be suffered to continue. He hoped, therefore, that the measure would limit the right to import commodities duty free to such as were for the use of the Sovereign himself.Mr. Huskisson
1359 contended, that the Sovereign had the right to import whatever he pleased for his own use, duty free. He had several other rights of property of this kind, such as the right to the Droits of Admiralty, to wrecks, and others—and the Ministers, if they pleased, might give up these and all other rights, but he hoped they would not give up his opinion. To contend that the Sovereign had not the right to import commodities without paying duties, was to say that his Majesty must not travel from London to Windsor without paying tolls on his own roads. The House could no more levy duties on the articles for the Sovereign's use, than it could make him pay a shilling or a six-
1359Sir Charles Wetherell
 thought the prerogative of the King in this respect was much more extensive than the hon. and learned Gentleman had described it to be; and, although it was not always exercised, there could be no doubt of its existence. He was very much afraid that the bill now announced to the House, so far from limiting that prerogative, might, perhaps, enable the Crown to devise new means for its being called into operation, and therefore, he now gave notice of his intention to watch its progress, and examine thoroughly its details.Mr. Bright
 could assure the hon. Member, that the bill meant neither to encroach on the prerogative nor to extend its privileges; its object was to adjust that portion of the royal privileges by which certain commodities were imported, and might subsequently be sold, duty free, to the level of existing usages and institutions. The sugars alluded to stood on a different ground from other articles which the Crown might import free of duty.The Attorney General
1360 had, from the very first, looked on this exercise of the prerogative of the Crown with great jealousy, and he rejoiced at the prospect of a full and complete settlement of all the questions to which it gave rise. Notwithstanding what the hon. and learned Gentleman said, in this
1360Mr. Baring
 said, he had always endeavoured, as much as possible, to support the just prerogative of the Crown, but he could not conceal from himself, that the exercise of a power of this kind should be dispensed with, and that it was necessary to put an immediate termination to all the speculations or suspicions which it might call forth.Sir Robert Peel
, approved of the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir R. Peel), and declared, that a proper limitation of the prerogatives of the Crown was the surest method to fix them on a permanent basis.Mr. Brougham
ll thought, that the time was come, when the exercise of prerogatives of that kind should be put an end to for ever. He did not see, too, on what principle the ambassadors of this country, who were so well paid for their services, should possess a privilege beyond the rest of his Majesty's subjects, and he hoped that the practice with respect to them would also be abandoned. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) admitted that he had received 50,000llMr. Hume
 said, in explanation, that the only object he had in view in the few observations which he had addressed to the House was, to vindicate the official law opinion which he had delivered with respect to the West-India sugars, which, he still maintained, the Crown was entitled to import and sell duty free.Sir C. Wetherell
pro tanto submitted to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the propriety of making some alteration in the present mode of doing business at the Mint. At present there was no charge for seignorage, and the expense of coining for individuals from bullion was defrayed by the public. He thought it would be much better were some charge affixed which would save the public this expense, and at the same time not hold out a bounty to melting the coin of the realm. He should object, however, to any seignorage exceeding the cost of the coining, as that would be pro tantoMr. Poulett Thomson
l did not agree with his hon. friend, the member for Dover, that there ought to be the imposition of this seignorage, for such a charge would be equivalent to a depreciation of the intrinsic value of the coin of the realm to the amount so imposed. In the French Mint, a charge amounting to 100,000lMr. Warburton
 explained, that he was misunderstood by his hon. friend. He had never intended to impose an expense calculated to depreciate the coin; but merely required a payment, in the shape of seignorage, equivalent to the expense incurred by the public in performing the work of coining for individuals.Mr. Poulett Thomson
 had a great objection to any plan of seignorage, for the effect would be, that the amount, be it one or two per cent, or whatever other sum, would fall on the last holder of the coin, in addition to his loss by the depreciation of weight.Mr. Davies Gilbert
l1362 wished to know in what manner the profit of eight-and-half to ten per-
l1362Mr. Hume
ll replied, that there had not been of late any silver coinage, except about 100,000llMr. Herries
 looked upon the present plan at the Mint as not only one by which the public sustained an unnecessary loss, but as furnishing likewise a premium to the party who brought his bullion to the Mint for coinage, at the expense of the country. The question of seignorage was, he knew, a difficult one; and there were many different opinions concerning it, but he believed that there could be but one opinion of the plan followed at our Mint. Whenever parties took bullion there they immediately received coin in its place, so that if the market price of bullion were equal or a little lower than the settled price given at the Mint, the owners of the bullion made a large immediate profit at the public expense. This was absurd. At least, those who carried bullion to be coined should wait till it was coined, and not receive money for it immediately. To keep a large quantity of money ready coined to meet such demands was a great expense. The system ought, in his opinion, to be altered.Mr. Baring
dsldsl1363 said, that the business of the Mint was governed by fixed regulations, which were deemed salutary for the public. Formerly the mode of transacting it was such that the Bank of England became the sole great importer or monopolist of bullion, and enjoyed from that situation a profit upon procuring coin for individuals.
dsldsl1363Mr. Herries
1365ssss1364 explained, that even this advantage was given to individuals at the expense of the public; and why, he again asked, should the latter be called upon to
1365ssss1364Mr. Baring
1366 explained, that there had not been within the last three or four years any new silver coinage, except that for the Colonies. The coinage alluded to was that prepared after the passing of the bill for putting an end to small notes and to facilitate its operation for the public. He was at the same time willing to admit that he believed there was at present a larger silver coinage than the wants of the country required, and he apprehended the surplus was accumulated at the Bank, for there was none in the Mint. As to the rumour that there existed a spurious silver coinage which had found its way into circulation he meant not a counterfeit or false coin but one of silver, of the same quality and fineness as the Mint coinage, which was supposed to have been fabricated in a foreign country and introduced into this to secure the profit which might be derived from the difference between the nominal value of the coin and market price of the silver. He had not the leas reason to believe there was the smallest truth in this supposition; indeed, from all the information which he could obtain, he thought there was no truth in the rumour, and for this reason, a quantity of silver coin had been selected as spurious, and sent to the Mint, where it underwent a careful examination, when the result was, that every single piece was ascertained to be the genuine fabrication of the Mint He had no other reason than this for disbelieving the rumour, and he knew that pot a single piece other than the legitimate
1366Mr. Herries
 did not mean to argue that the expense of this Mint process was greater than the advantage derived from the increased facilities afforded to the public in the manner mentioned by his right hon. friend; but he quite agreed with the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Baring) that great public benefit would be derived from decreasing the expense which was at present attendant upon conveying the precious metals into this country. By increasing the facilities of transport a real advantage would be derived, and a saving of at least one half per cent assured for the importing merchants. Why should the merchants who speculated in the import of bullion have a duty of two per cent, and sometimes, if the vessel touched at Jamaica and other places of 3 or 3½-per-cent imposed upon them for its conveyance in Government packets or ships of war? He knew for a certain fact, that the importation would have been infinitely greater from South America, if it had not been for the existence of this tax. Merchants were quite ready to pay the same freight as was paid for public treasure brought in the King's ships.Mr. Huskisson
1367 said, that the tax was not so great as the right hon. Gentleman had stated. Its average was formerly only about one and a half per cent, it was at present at most two per cent. The reason of the imposition of the tax was, because the naval officers had often to make good great losses to the merchants. He
1367Sir G. Cockburn
 said, that any naval officer carrying public treasure would consider himself well paid at one per cent. He therefore thought that the freight paid by merchants ought to be much lowered. In the case mentioned by the gallant Admiral, the captain had himself to blame, as it was his duty to see that the bullion shipped accorded with the invoice. He did not think that the responsibility of the commanders of packets would be found of much avail, should the treasure they were intrusted with be found deficient.Mr. Huskisson
 observed, that there was a great difference between officers carrying money for the Crown and for merchants. If an officer used every proper care of the money intrusted to him on the part of the Crown, but should by misfortune lose it, the Crown would absolve him from repayment. But in cases of money intrusted to him by merchants, he was responsible to the whole extent of his fortune for its safety.Sir G. Cockburn
 complained of the high rate of freight imposed on merchants, inasmuch as there was an invariable agreement that the naval officer should only be responsible to the amount of one quarter of the sum intrusted to him. As to the other points brought under discussion—the advantage of individual importers of bullion—that was much exaggerated. The advantage which the Bank gained was trifling, as it was always obliged to keep a large balance in hand.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 thought the Government had a right to charge a freight for money imported in King's ships, but he thought that the profit ought to be put in the public purse.Mr. Maberly
ll reminded the House how often he had pressed the subject upon the Government. If a naval officer were a Member of the House, or connected with Government, he was immediately put into a fast-sailing frigate, which sailed along the coast of South America, took in one or two millions of dollars, and thereby put into the pocket of the officer 20,000llMr. Hume
 remarked, that the only return for British manufactures from South America was gold and silver, and unless bullion were brought home upon fair terms, the effect would be, to destroy the trade.Mr. Baring
ll wished to know whether these expenses were incurred by the Treasury, for the prosecutions, or rather persecutions of the Press during the last year. In 1829, the sum voted for fees of Counsel was only 2,289llMr. Gordon
 said, that the sum for fees of Counsel was lower this year than last. The vote for this year was not proposed upon a calculation of the probable expenses, but upon the average expense of the three preceding years. With respect to the number of counsel employed, probably his learned friend (Sir J. Scarlett) would give the House a good reason for that. He must, however, state, that the fees paid by the Solicitor of the Treasury were much lower than those paid by private individuals.Mr. Dawson
sll13711370 thought he was bound, on the occasion of the prosecution which had been adverted to, to give his Majesty the benefit of the Counsel whom he considered most efficient. He was perfectly ready to show, that the charges in this instance were usual and reasonable, and he was ready to meet any motion which the hon. Member might bring forward on the subject. It was a matter of great, and he might add, indispensable convenience to the Attorney General to have the assistance of King's Counsel in cases of this description. He and the Solicitor General were often called out of Court on such public occasions, when it was important that they should be present, and it was necessary in such instances to have Counsel ready to take upon them the management of the case. If the hon. Member himself should happen to be engaged in an important suit, and if such an humble individual as he (the Attorney General) should be fortunate enough to be employed as his Counsel, and if he should be called out of the Court at the critical moment, as he frequently was, to attend his public duty in the House of Lords, in the Court of Exchequer, or before the Privy Council, the hon. Gentleman might then find the necessity and convenience of having Counsel employed to assist him and to take his place in his absence; now what the hon. Member would think right and proper in his own case, he should concede to be right in the case of Government. As to the number of Counsel, it was not greater than was usually employed in such cases. That was his answer to the hon. Gentleman, and it was all the answer he was prepared to give to him on the subject. As to the fees that had been paid in these cases, they were not equal to the fees which were often paid in private prosecutions. He thought he had now answered all the questions and the statements of the hon. Gentleman. He might be allowed, however, to tell the hon. Member, that if he was anxious to make personal attacks upon him, he ought to do so in the regular way, by bringing a specific motion before the House. Let him do that, and he would be then ready to meet him. Let him do that, and not assai him by those side-wind attacks, and by calling prosecutions, which he in the discharge of his duty felt himself bound to institute, "persecutions." He thought it
sll13711370The Attorney General
13731372lllll would in the first instance say a word as to what had been said by the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Treasury, as to the amount of those fees to Counsel charged in this estimate. The hon. Gentleman had said, that 3,13913731372lllllMr. R. Gordon
1375his fiat1374l said, that they had been told, that a portion of this money had been issued for the payment of fees in suits. He inferred from that statement that the suits in question were suits in Chancery; and he was anxious to obtain information as to the number of suits of this description which had been instituted by the Treasury, and the amount of property which had been thus acquired for the Crown. It was well known that all the effects of persons who were born illegitimate, and who died intestate, devolved to the Crown. He believed that large estates of that character had devolved to the Crown. His attention had been called to the subject by a professional gentleman, who acted as solicitor for an individual who claimed as the legal descendant of the deceased, but who was defeated. In that case the sum of 90,0001375his fiat1374lMr. D. W. Harvey
13771376 trusted, that on the present occasion he was entitled to claim the attention of the House, while he replied to the statements made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. With regard to the subject of charities he had this to say—the power of investigating and regulating public charities was vested in the Crown, and that power was delegated to his Majesty's Attorney General; and whether it were right that such a power should be so delegated or not, he would not now say; but this he would say, that so long as it was vested in him, as it was, he would keep that right, and he would not allow the hon. Member or any other person to take it from him. If the hon. Gentleman should choose to apply to file an information in the case of a charity, and have the certificate of a Counsel in support of it, and if the facts should not afterwards appear to warrant such an information, he should only be doing his duty by preventing him from filing it. He
13771376The Attorney General
lllldsLaughter and cheers from the Ministerial benches.1378 said, that the learned Gentleman had made a strange exhibition on this occasion. To any Gentleman who heard him it must have been evident that the Attorney General appeared to be under the impression that he was in a court of law, and not in that House, for he seemed to think that he might deal out to individuals here the same treatment which he did to the unfortunate parties who came under the lash of his forensic talents in a court of law. The hon. and learned Gentleman had complained of what he called the sarcasms of the hon. member for Cricklade. He (Mr. Harvey) would not accuse the hon. and learned Gentleman of employing sarcasms against him, for that would be giving him credit for wit which he did not possess, but he had certainly dealt out a great quantity of coarseness against him, which the House might estimate as it deserved. It was rather odd that the learned Gentleman, who put forward assumptions to a purity of intention which he would not concede to others, should have on this occasion so completely perverted the spirit of a printed letter which could scarcely have been misunderstood if it had been read to the House. In doing that, the hon. Gentleman with his usual dexterity, had diverted the attention of the House from that point with regard to which he (Mr. Harvey) had required an answer from him. He alluded to the amount of fees charged for those suits with respect to charities in Chancery, in which suits the hon. Member had been in the habit of taking fees for doing nothing, though it had been recommended by the law-commissioners as one remedy for the abuses in courts of justice, that learned Counsel should confine themselves to the court, and not go into other courts to scramble for fees for doing nothing. That was what the learned Attorney General had done, for he had taken fees in those suits in Chancery where he could do nothing, as his practice did not lie in that Court. But the hon. Member alluded to a circular letter which had been sent round to the trustees of charities. He (Mr. Harvey) gloried in being the author of that letter. He would venture to say, that the Attorney General would never be the author of such a letter.
lllldsLaughter and cheers from the Ministerial benches.1378Mr. D. W. Harvey
1379 said, if the hon. Member were prepared to bring forward any
1379The Attorney General
13811380relator hoped that the House would allow him to say a few words in reference to the case of the Ironmongers' Company, to which allusion had been made by the hon. member for Colchester. He begged leave to say, that as to the result of that case, the hon. Member appeared to be entirely mistaken. No pretence existed to justify any one in stating to the commissioners that there was any intention on the part of the Ironmongers' Company to mismanage or misapply this money; on the contrary, it was shown that all their regulations with regard to it were framed to meet the intentions of the original founder. The only difficulty was with regard to the application of the money, so as to comply with the conditions specified by the founder. He must say, that it appeared upon investigation, that the money had been managed by the Ironmongers' Company in the best possible manner. The hon. Member had no reason whatever to take credit to himself, for having by his vigilance obtained the proper application of that fund. With regard to the controlling power possessed by the Attorney General as to the filing of informations in cases of charity, he would observe, that when the Legislature thought proper to confide that power to the Attorney General, without the authority of a 13811380relatorThe Solicitor General
lpendente lite defended the conduct of the Ironmongers' Company, and contended that they had not been guilty of any misapplication of their funds. He wondered how the hon. member for Colchester could bring forward charges in that House, when he knew that the whole case must shortly undergo judicial investigation elsewhere. The hon. Member had told the Committee that a bill had been filed against the Ironmongers' Company. Why had he not told the committee that the Company had put in its answer, and that the Lord Chancellor had ordered that the funds in question should be distributed lpendente liteMr. Alderman Thompson
13831382 said, that if any person were justly liable to the accusation of irregularity upon this occasion, it was his Majesty's Attorney General, who had introduced a letter into the discussion which had not the slightest connexion with it. The hon. and learned Gentleman had been asked, why he condescended to take fees for suits instituted in his name in the Court of Chancery, when he never went into that Court, or took any part in conducting them. It was a plain question, and admitted, as he (Mr. Hume) thought, of as plain an answer. But the hon. and learned Gentleman, instead of giving the Committee a plain answer to a plain question, did not vouchsafe to give it an answer at all, but endeavoured to divert attention to a very different subject, by going into a letter of which he hinted, more than
13831382Mr. Hume
1384 wished to confine himself to a simple answer to the question which had been put to him by the hon. member for Aberdeen, inasmuch as he was convinced that all who were acquainted with his private character would do him the justice to believe that he was not likely to feel gratification at the ruin of any man. The expenses incurred in the prosecutions instituted on behalf of the Lord Chancellor, after it had been taken up as a public prosecution were, he had no doubt, included in this item. He could not positively say of his own knowledge that they were, because he had not the drawing up of this estimate. To the remainder of the observations made by the hon. member for Aberdeen, he would only reply, that he did not know till that evening that in pro-
1384The Attorney General
ex-officio for the purpose of stating that the expenses of the ex-officioMr. Dawson rose
l1385ll denied that he had made any such attack upon the Ironmongers' Company as justified the remarks which had been made upon his conduct by the hon. member for the City of London. He believed that the members of that Company thought that they had done as well as the members of other companies of "the great Corporation;" and he did not mean to say that they had done worse. All that he had complained of was, that they had had a large sum of money unemployed for years, or if employed, employed on no visible object save that of eating and drinking. It appeared to him that the learned Solicitor General had upon this occasion run wild very unnecessarily. The learned Gentleman had accused him of adopting his present course for the purpose of gaining popularity; and if he might judge from the exhibition which he had just seen, the learned Gentleman was rather envious of the honour which he fancied was acquired by a reformer of abuses. He certainly, and he was ready to acknowledge it, did wish for some popularity, and he believed that the Solicitor General, much as he disguised the fact, was equally anxious to obtain a share of that; else how was it that an inflated account had been published of certain journies made from Lincoln's Inn to the Fleet Prison, and of certain accounts then and there taken of the sufferings endured by a certain class of prisoners? He repeated what he had said before, that so far was the attempt to remedy the abuses of charitable institutions from deserving attack in that House, that he believed that whoever made it was undertaking a work of great utility. The twenty-two volumes of Reports on Charitable Institutions, which had cost the country upwards of 300,000l1385llMr. D. W. Harvey
 rose, for the purpose of repeating the question which had been already put by the hon. member for Montrose. He thought that he had heard that question answered in the affirmative. If it had been so answered, he, for one, wished to have a further explanation.Sir E. Knatchbull
 repeated, that the expenses incurred by Lord Lyndhurst in prosecuting an individual for a libel against him as Lord Chancellor, had been included, as the prosecution was taken up by the Crown, under the charge of law expenses for the last year.Mr. Dawson
 wanted to know the grounds on which such a resolution had been adopted. A great constitutional principle was here at stake, and he should like to hear some satisfactory reason, if such a reason could be given, for so unprecedented a proceeding.Sir E. Knatchbull
ex officioex officio1386ex officioex officio said, that unless some of his Majesty's Ministers explained to the Committee, before this estimate was put to the vote, why Lord Lyndhurst's application for a criminal information was abandoned, and an ex officioex officio1386ex officioex officioSir C. Wetherell
ex officioex officio13891388ex officioex officioConfusion, and cries of "Order."Hear, from Sir E. Knatchbull1387 hoped, that the Committee would feel that he was now most unexpectedly called upon to address it at some length upon a subject that was pointedly personal to himself. He had had no previous notice given to him that a question as to the propriety of his official conduct would be that evening raised in Parliament. Not one of the hon. Gentlemen who had that evening thought fit to pass such sweeping censures on his conduct, had had the courtesy to intimate to him that they intended to bring under the notice of the Committee of Supply, that part of his public conduct which had already undergone discussion once, and which was to undergo a discussion a second time, whenever the hon. and learned member for Plympton should think fit to bring it on by moving for leave to introduce a Bill to prevent the
ex officioex officio13891388ex officioex officioConfusion, and cries of "Order."Hear, from Sir E. Knatchbull1387The Attorney General
ex officio1390 to order, but was so inaudible, that the Members called upon him to "speak out." He was understood to protest against the irregularity of this discussion. The Committee had already lost more than two hours in the discussion of a subject which had nothing whatever to do with the estimate then before it. In former times it was not usual to talk so much; the consequence was, that they
ex officio1390Mr. Baring rose
ex officioex officio also rose to order. He was sure that his hon. friend, the member for Callington could not have heard, or if he had heard, could not have attended to the whole of this discussion. He agreed that upon this occasion the Committee had wandered widely from the real question before it, and he was sorry to observe that that was a practice which was daily becoming more prevalent, both in that and the other House of Parliament. If, however, his hon. friend had determined to call the House back to the question, he thought that he ought to have carried his determination into effect before his hon. and learned friend, the Attorney General had been put upon his defence. He contended that his hon. and learned friend, the member for Plympton had put his hon. and learned friend the Attorney General upon his defence by his mode of proceeding that night. The question which his hon. and learned friend the member for Plympton had raised was this—" I will not vote the expenses of filing the ex officioex officioMr. Brougham
: If there be any question of constitutional law at issue between the two learned Gentlemen, it is hard upon the Committee, which has met for business, to have its time wasted in settling it now.Mr. Baring
ex officio1392ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officiolex officio1391 proceeded to state, that no one felt more strongly than he did, the inconvenience which had arisen
ex officio1392ex officioex officioex officioex officioex officiolex officio1391The Attorney General
ex officio1393 had not been aware, that in discussing the estimates it was requisite to give a previous notice of any topic to be discussed: it was the first time he had heard so monstrous a doctrine. The question arose out of matters which could not be known to him till he was in
ex officio1393Sir E. Knatchbull
ex officio did not complain of the course pursued by the hon. Baronet. The hon. and learned member for Plympton had said, that unless some explanation on the subject was given to the Committee, he should propose an Amendment, rejecting the vote; and he remarked, that in a matter somewhat personal to him (the Attorney General), he thought the courtesy observed in the House called for some previous notice of it. In answer to the question which had been proposed by the hon. Baronet, he stated that the expenses of all the ex officioThe Attorney General
 said, that he could not vote for the estimate: the Lord Chancellor, in his opinion, was in the same situation, when attacked in his private capacity, as another individual, and should defend himself in the same manner.Mr. Wigram
ex officio1394 hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir C. Wetherell) would bring this question to a decision, by moving his Amendment to strike out of the Estimates the expenses of the Lord Chancellor's prosecution. It was a most unnecessary waste of the public money, not because a foul libel had not been pub-
ex officio1394Mr. O'Connell
1396No, no.1395l said, that whatever might be the opinion of the House on the question now before it, he was certain that no other Member would be prepared to give his vote on the same grounds as the hon. and learned member for Clare. He had said that the prosecution was vindictive: if so, let the House mark its sentiments, by reprobating the conduct of the Attorney General; but Jet it not degrade itself by such a paltry mode of reprobation as that of reducing the votes on the Estimates. Was there ever such a miserable mode of dealing with a great constitutional question? Was there ever an instance of an attempt to subject a Lord Chancellor and an Attorney-general to censure, by diminishing a vote of 1001396No, no.1395lSir R. Peel
 was satisfied with the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. It would then be for the House to decide on the sufficiency of the explanation.Sir E. Knatchbull
 stated, that the reason why he had not brought forward his motion might be seen in the state of the Vote-paper. The hon. Member was proceeding to refer to the subject of Ship-money in the reign of Charles 1st, when he was interrupted by violent coughing, and obliged to discontinue.Mr. Sadler
 would withdraw his intended Amendment, as the proposal of the right hon. Secretary he thought was a fair one. The information he wanted was, whether any instance could be cited in which a private information had been commenced and abandoned in order to give an opportunity for the institution of a public one. The hon. and learned Gentleman, and the right hon. Secretary, seemed rather to be retiring from this question. He maintained that no such instance had ever occurred in Westminster-hall, and if no such case was brought to light, he should persist in proposing a reduction of the vote,Sir C. Wetherell
 explained, that he had never contended that a committee might not discuss great constitutional questions; but he had contended that, in a Committee of Supply, and on a vote, it was generally customary for the Committee to confine itself to the pecuniary part of the business.Sir R. Peel
 expressed a hope, that the House would look into the question, with a view to ascertain whether a power should be put into the hands of the Ministers of the Crown to vindicate themselves against whatever charges might be brought against them, at the expense of the country.Mr. Bright
pro forma. said, that as the right hon. Gentleman opposite had fairly admitted an explanation to be necessary with regard to these charges, and promised to give it before the report should be agreed to, he would not offer any further opposition to the vote on the present occasion, it being understood that it was allowed to pass pro forma.Mr. Hume
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whether he could not make arrangements to do away with this expense in part, if not altogether?Mr. Hume
 said, the commission grew out of treaties made with foreign powers with a view to abolish the Slave-trade, a circumstance which constituted the difficulty of receding. As to the amount of expense incurred on this account, the Estimates bore witness that whenever vacancies occurred, the opportunity was taken to reduce the expense of the commission as far as practicable.—The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that this vote and the next to it were liable to great objections. He hoped, as it was his wish to take the sense of the House on the subject, that the Chairman might be permitted to report progress and ask leave to sit again, reserving the discussion upon these items for an earlier hour and a fitter
opportunity.Sir J. Graham
 had no wish to press these particular Resolutions at present, as they were objected to, but trusted that hon. Members would allow the subsequent votes to be proceeded with.Sir R. Peel
 said, that almost every vote that followed would be objected to.Mr. Hume
 objected to going into the Resolution at that hour, on the ground that the Commissions were likely to entail upon the country a perpetuity of expense.Mr. Hume
 said, he could not allow such an observation as perpetuity of expense to be applied to the Law Commissioners, without declaring his intention to share the responsibility incurred by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir R. Peel). It had indeed been, in some measure, through his instrumentality that the expense was incurred, and so far from its being perpetual, he believed that a period of little more than a year, certainly not so much as two years, would be required for the full completion of their labours. The Commissioners had already made a Report embracing all the heads of the subject of their inquiries. This they had done in about a year and a half, and he was confident, if they went on as they had done, that another year and a half would be more than sufficient for the full completion of their labours.Mr. Brougham
 said, many most valuable suggestions were contained in the reports presented, but not one of them was yet carried into execution. Why were not the useful improvements suggested carried into effect? The only measure yet brought into the House on the recommendation of the Commissioners was the bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General), and that suggestion was the first seized upon because it was attended with expense to the country.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 agreed to postpone the remaining votes, and the House resumed.Sir R. Peel
1350l said, he was sensible of the advantage of making the proposed opening, and felt strongly the beauty and convenience that would result from it. However, there were reasons which induced Government to hesitate as to aiding the undertaking in the manner required. The first principle on which Government had acted with respect to improvements in the metropolis was, as far as possible, to confine its exertions to the property and estates of the Crown. This had been the case with regard to Regent-street. An application was made to him in reference to a new street from Waterloo-bridge northward, and he had been induced to represent the matter to the Board which possessed the superior control in such affairs. The members of it conceived, that the only mode in which they could properly lend their assistance would be, with regard to that part of the proposed improvement which might be contiguous to Crown property; and he thought that he might have ventured to propose to the House to advance a sum of 25,0001350lLord Lowther
1351ll, having already presented a Petition from the parish of St. Paul Covent Garden in support of the project, could not but express his regret, that it had not received more encouragement from the noble Lord. The noble Lord must be aware, that unless Government came forward with assistance, partial even though it might be, the undertaking could never be effected, and that if it were not accomplished now, it never could. In consequence of the English Opera-house having been consumed, an opportunity was afforded of making an opening which would be equally useful and ornamental to the metropolis; but if the theatre were allowed to be rebuilt on the original site, the object would be defeated. He must object to his constituents being rated as proposed by the noble Lord; they were taxed quite enough already; the extra rates to which parishes in the metropolis had been subjected amounted to very large sums—too large to admit of any addition, even for the accomplishment of an object so useful as that now proposed. The establishment of the metropolitan police (an exceedingly useful object, he admitted) had added heavily to the parochial rates. The parish of St. George, Hanover-square, in addition to a rate of 76,0001351llMr. Hobhouse
 hoped, that Government would feel disposed to consider the sum small that would be required to effect the object, and the public convenience great, that must result from it when accomplished; and that such being the case, it would lend its assistance to the undertaking. He was peculiarly and personally interested, but he thought that being so did not bias his opinion in declaring that the measure would be very advantageous.Mr. Warburton
 trusted, that at least there would be no objection to the appointment of a committee to consider the conditions and security upon which Government might advance a certain sum for the completion of the plan. At the same time he admitted that Government was justified in pausing and weighing the matter well previous to taking any step.Sir R. Inglis
 rose, to explain the course he intended to take with respect to his bill. His intention was, to give up the measure for the present year. In the next Session he should bring forward another measure on the same subject, which, if the House would permit him, he should read a second time, and then refer it to a select committee up-stairs.Lord Stanley
 was of opinion that the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Bourne) ought to be attended to.Mr. Estcourt
 objected to entering into a discussion of one measure, at a time when another measure was before the House. When the present Bill should have been disposed of, he would go into the other, and afford his hon. friend an opportunity of discussing it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the great object of the Bill was to supply the public with a wholesome and nutritious malt beverage; and it was evident that that object would be defeated, if individuals were allowed to concoct liquor from quassia, coculus indicus, and other deleterious drugs.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proposed a clause to enact that any person applying under the Act for a license, should give a notice to be put up for three successive Sundays on the church-door, containing his name and address; and that it should be lawful for any three rated parishioners to apply to a magistrate, and give security to enter an appeal against the granting of the license; and that the magistrates should not be authorized to grant the license if the applicant had been convicted of a felony, or was a man of notoriously bad character, or if the place where the public-house was to be kept was 100 yards from any public road.Sir T. Freemantle
 said, the law would be, that those who sold Beer only as provided by the Bill, should be licensed by the Excise; and that those who combined with the Beer-trade a trade in Wine and Spirits should continue to be licensed as at present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it appeared to him that those who had the spirit-licences would thereby possess such a preference as would give them a very fair chance, he might almost say a certainty, of keeping their ground.Mr. Brougham
 was glad to hear that the noble Lord intended to postpone this measure. With respect to the measure of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Bourne) he could not, until he heard more of it, pledge himself to support it.Mr. C. Calvert
 presented a Petition from St. Olave, Southwark, against the Bill for the removal of Scotch and Irish Vagrants. The hon. Member took the opportunity to say, that he was happy to hear that the noble Lord (Stanley) had postponed the measure until next Session, and he should be still happier if he would abandon it entirely.Mr. C. Calvert
1352 said, the question at issue, which this bill was to solve to the
1352Mr. N. Calvert
1354 was sure, that the noble Lord had no intention of reviving the practice of whipping Irish vagrants, but that certainly would be the effect of his bill, if any body chose to carry it into execution, for it went to repeal the comparatively recent Statute, which made whipping no necessary part of the operation of send-
1354Mr. O'Connell
 thought, that the measure might be further matured this Session, and even referred to a select committee, in order that it might pass at an early period of the next Session. It was now the season of the year when the Irish labourers came to this country, and the bill, in order to be brought into just and effectual operation, ought to be made known to the parties interested before they left their native country. He therefore recommended the noble Lord to advance the measure further before he allowed the present Session to pass away.Mr. Littleton
1349 presented a Petition from Samuel James Arnold, the proprietor of the late English Opera-house, in favour of a New Street from Waterloo-bridge to the northern part of the Metropolis. The hon. Member took that opportunity to inquire of the noble Lord (Lowther) what were the views of Government with regard to the subject. In doing so, he did not mean to impute any blame to the noble Lord, who was himself a great improver, for being reluctant to take up the matter. At the same time he was strongly in favour of opening a New Street, to commence at Waterloo-bridge, and extend towards the northern part of the town. The feeling of the public generally, but particularly of the immediate inhabitants of the metropolis, was decidedly in favour of such an undertaking.
1349Mr. Agar Ellis
1355 thought it very unfair that the Irish and Scotch poor should be saddled upon the English landholder. He thought the only way to prevent this was to pass a declarative act, to the effect that such poor should not be of right entitled to relief here. If the emigrants from Ire-
1355Mr. G. Dawson
 thought that the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Bourne) opposite would meet all the difficulties of this subject.Sir G. Philips
1400 proposed, as an Amendment, that individuals should not be thus restricted. As the Chancellor of the Ex-
1400Mr. Bright
1399 objected to proceeding further with the present measure till the nature of that for effecting an alteration
1399Mr. Bright
l said, that the bill of the noble Lord was not to be tolerated. If it were entertained, it would have the effect of sending back to their own country all the Irish poor, and ought to be followed up by a bill to send back all the Irish rich. Since 1811 no less than 1,150,000lMr. H. Grattan
 expressed his satisfaction that the bill was to be given up, for he was prepared to give it his most strenuous opposition.Mr. J. Grattan
1353 said, considerable misapprehension existed in Ireland—in Dublin among other places—with respect to the provisions of the bill. It appeared to be supposed, that the bill would introduce a different degree of power with respect to Scottish and Irish Vagrants and their removal, from that at present granted by the existing law; whereas, in point of fact,
1353Mr. Doherty
 believed that the noble Lord mistook the feeling of the public upon the subject, if he thought that they would not willingly devote a part of their revenues to so beneficial an undertaking. They looked with great anxiety to the commencement of the work, which would be most useful as well as ornamental.Mr. J. Wood
 concurred in the proposition of his right hon. friend (Mr. S. Bourne), and thought that a measure on that principle should be introduced this Session.Mr. R. Palmer
, after repeating the nature of his proposition, said, that the learned member for Clare was quite mistaken in supposing that the Act respecting whipping would be revived by the bill of the noble Lord. That Act was altogether repealed, and no case of whipping could possibly arise, even if the noble Lord's bill, as it now stood, should pass into a law.Mr. S. Bourne
 remarked, that the existing system grew out of the report of a committee of the House, as long since as the year 1817. It had appeared to that committee, that paupers might be removed like vagrants, by passes, and for some time the plan worked well; indeed so well, that a magistrate of Shadwell Police-office had assured him, that the effect had been to compel seventy families in that district to support themselves, instead of coming upon the rates. In time, however, it became liable to abuse, and the result was, the evils now the subject of such general complaint. The proposed remedy of the noble Lord was, however, no remedy at all, and he (Mr. S. Bourne) had made a suggestion to the Secretary for the Home Department, which he thought would be effectual; and that was, that the overseers of every parish should be allowed to give relief to any persons who applied, who seemed to be fit objects of charity, let them belong to what parish they might. This would, of course, preclude compulsory relief upon the orders of magistrates, as it would render them needless. Paupers might then be permitted to go to and fro, from parish to parish, without being interfered with; and a provision being made for the necessitous in every parish, the expense of passing paupers to their places of settlement would be avoided. It seemed to him by far the most equitable principle that residence (say for five years) should give a settlement, and he was confident that the parish authorities would be desirous of affording relief in all cases where it was deserved, without any further compulsion than that of circumstances.Mr. S. Bourne
 asked, whether the public-houses now in existence, and licensed according to the present system, were to be put under the direction of the Excise in the same manner as was provided with respect to the new houses to be opened under the authority of this Act?Sir M. W. Ridley
 supported the prayer of the Petition. The time would soon come when Ireland must sustain some part of the burthen of the maintenance of her poor.Sir R. Wilson
 attended in the Long Gallery to swear in the Members of the House of Commons, and a considerable number were sworn in. The Commons being summoned, repaired to the House of Peers, accompanied by the Clerk of the House, and on their return, the Clerk informed the Members, that a Commission, appointed by his Majesty, had commanded the Commons to choose a Speaker.The Lord Steward
 seconded the Motion; and expressed his satisfaction and entire concurrence in the well-merited encomiums which the House had respectfully tendered. His object in rising, however, was to direct the attention of his Majesty's Government, and of such Members as attended to the public business, to a subject which urgently demanded attention, to which he had on former occasions adverted —he meant the business of the House — that they might turn the matter in their minds during the week which would elapse before the House began the effective business of the country. He had adverted more than once to the necessity of some arrangement by which the private business should be separated from the public business, securing to the latter a sufficient time for its discussion. He only wished, however, to throw out some hints on this subject for reflection during the week. He was confident, that unless some arrangement were made, by which the private business should be postponed or brought forward on separate and distinct nights, or by which the time of the House should not be occupied in hearing petitions from individuals on private subjects, or expressing their individual opinions on public affairs, he was confident, unless something was done to call on public business at a reasonable hour, that they would not be able to get through with it. He wished merely to direct the attention of Members to this subject, and should be ready to support any proposition which would secure to the country, that a proper share of the time of its Representatives should be devoted to its business.Mr. Brougham
 said, that the House required as Speaker, a Gentleman able to preserve order in its proceedings, well acquainted with constitutional law, and with all the forms of the House; endowed with good temper, and of great impartiality. He should be a person easy of access, and whose gentlemanly manners would ensure him the support of all the Members, and to whom all might with pleasure refer all doubtful points, particularly of private business. He had looked over the list of representatives, and he had not been able to find one gentleman so well qualified to fill the office of Speaker as his right hon. friend, Mr. Manners Sutton, and he therefore had great pleasure in seconding the Motion.Mr. N. Calvert
5: Long as it has been my pride to be the servant of the House, and frequently as I have had occasion to address it, yet it is impossible for me entirely to divest myself of embarrassment, and not to feel some distrust of myself in returning my thanks to my hon. friends who have proposed me to the House as a fit and proper person for the high office of Speaker, as well as for the terms in which they were pleased to express their sentiments of me; I must also acknowledge the speech of the Gal-
5Mr. Manners Sutton
43 rose to propose a Speaker for the choice of the House. The honorable Member was understood to say, that when a new Parliament was assembled, it was essential to their future proceedings that they should obey the invitation they had received, and choose a Speaker. That was the first act the Commons had to perform. For a Speaker they ought to choose a person of the greatest ability, and possessing a character of the highest integrity—a person who by his worth and talents was fit and proper to represent the House of Commons, in all
43Sir Edward Hyde East
 observed, that if ever there was a time when, from the state of public affairs, it was necessary, in order to gain the confidence of the Members, and give full effect to the proceedings of the House, that they ought to choose a proper person as Speaker, the present was the time. He concurred in all that had fallen from the Mover and Seconder. He was sure that there was not in the House a single person better qualified—that there was no one equal, he would not say—for amidst all the Members of the House, men of talents, of different professions, of great virtue and integrity, some equally proper person might be found; but he must say, that from the great suavity of the individual named, as well as his great knowledge, he was a fit and proper person to fill the Chair in as tremendous times as ever any man was called to fill it in.Sir Joseph Yorke
5756 rose to move an Address to the Crown in answer to the Royal Speech. In rising to address such an Assembly, under the circumstances in which he was placed, he could only rely for indulgence on the kind feeling of the House, and on the courtesy of those Members in particular, who, having preceded him on similar occasions, knew the embarrassment incidental to so novel a situation. At the same time, he was aware that a cause like that confided to his hands ought not to suffer from the inadequacy of his talents for the perform-
5756Lord Grimstone
64assenting cheers from the Oppositionde factode facto6362 said, that the subjects to which his Majesty's Speech, and the Address which had been moved by the noble Lord referred, might be classed under two heads—our domestic and our foreign relations; on both of which he begged to say a few words. With respect to the first, he had heard with gratification that part of the King's Speech which declared his Majesty's determination to enforce strict economy in every branch of the public expenditure. Such a declaration, if duly acted upon, would communicate general satisfaction throughout the country. With respect also to the passage in his Majesty's Speech which related to the Civil List, it was most gratifying to him, and it must be most gratifying to every one, to find that his Majesty was disposed to place his interests in the hereditary revenues, and in the other funds, which, in former settlements of the Civil List, had been reserved to the Crown, at the disposal of Parliament. He was quite sure that in doing so his Majesty might rely with perfect confidence on the House and the country; because he was certain, that while the House and the country must feel the absolute necessity of the most rigorous economy and retrenchment, they would
64assenting cheers from the Oppositionde factode facto6362Lord Althorp
 was understood to say, that the noble Lord had misconceived his observations on Don Miguel.Mr. Dundas
7271l.l.706968676665 said, it was of the greatest importance, in these eventful times, teeming with jealousy and suspicion on the part of subjects towards
7271l.l.706968676665The Marquis of Blandford
 seconded the Amendment.Mr. O'Connell
 addressed the House, but was inaudible. He was understood to approve of the Address.Mr. Cresset Pelham
76757473 was understood to say, that he should be unworthy of the confidence which some part of his countrymen had shown themselves inclined to repose in him, if he did not repeat in that place what he had declared elsewhere;
76757473Mr. Long Wellesley
 said, that he was one of those Members who was most happy to see the hon. Member, who had just sat down, returned again to the House; and he was particularly pleased that he had come back to it with such a magazine of oratory, and still more so, that all that oratory was to be expended on a subject with which the hon. Member was not popularly considered to be very conversant, —he meant the subject of finance. All the drift of the hon. Member's speech— for he saw the feeling of liberality which the hon. Member had towards the French revolution—all the drift of the hon. Member's speech was, that he could not allow the Mover and Seconder of the Address to deplore the French revolution as an event calculated to disturb the peace of Europe. For his own part he did most sincerely deplore its occurrence: for though the noble Mover, and the hon. Seconder —one or other of them, he did not exactly remember which—had declared that he would not say who was wrong or who was right, he must say that a fact had occurred which might produce throughout Europe a convulsion, which the hon. Member, with all his ability, might find it difficult to allay. The hon. Member had told the House that he had been bred up a diplomatist— that he had lived and travelled much in foreign countries—and that he had received great information on particular points now in dispute; and he had then comforted it by saying, that there was not a single member of the European family of Kings who would not shortly undergo the same fate as the late King of France.Sir J. Yorke
.—"No, no, no, no."Mr. L. Wellesley
78l.doctrinaire.77 begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon. He did not wish to misstate the hon. Member's sentiments, perhaps he had misunderstood him. All he wished to do was to follow the hon. Member through the numerous points of his multifarious harangue. He could not agree to the Amendment which had been proposed to the Address. He thought the Speech from the Throne a good Speech —good in itself—not merely good on account of its omissions, though be was
78l.doctrinaire.77Sir J. Yorke
order"];87cries of "Order,8685"No, no," from the Treasury benches.Some observation was here made to the hon. Member, who continuedcheers from several parts of the House.848382818079 said, that it was with great reluctance he rose to address the House on the present occasion, because he had expected that his learned friend below him, who was so much better qualified for the task, would have been among the first to notice the various topics introduced into his Majesty's Speech. He had heard with regret the speech which had just been delivered by the gallant officer opposite; it breathed war, and nothing but war throughout, in support of a system which had been condemned by all good men, from its first establishment, as founded for the express purpose of putting down liberty and supporting despotism all over Europe. He therefore regretted that the gallant officer, in giving his support to the Government, had thought it necessary to give his support to that infamous system. The Speech from the Throne would be read with great regret by the country, for it breathed nothing but war and expensive establishments, and mentioned not a syllable respecting the distress which pervaded all parts of the em-
order"];87cries of "Order,8685"No, no," from the Treasury benches.Some observation was here made to the hon. Member, who continuedcheers from several parts of the House.848382818079Mr. Hume
88 said, it appeared to him that it was the wish of the Members to come to an early expression of their sentiments on the Address, and he was glad, therefore, that he was not called upon to detain them at any length, either in support of his Majesty's Speech, or in answer to the objections which had been made against it. With regard to the speech of the noble Lord,—the fair, the temperate, and the candid speech of the noble Lord, for so he could only in justice characterize it,—that speech showed that it was not at all necessary for him to detain the House at any length; for with one single exception only, the noble Lord fully concurred in the Speech from the Throne. The hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, had,
88Sir Robert Peel
 rose to order, and said, that he was incapable of intentional misrepresentation.Mr. Hume
979695949392919089 assured the hon. Gentleman, that he had meant to say unintentional misrepresentation. He was sure the hon. Member would do him the justice to suppose, that if he had said "intentional" it was by mistake. The hon. Gentleman had said, that his Majesty, in his Speech, charged the people of England with disaffection; but, so far from this being the fact, his Majesty had expressed the satisfaction which resulted to him from the conviction that he could rely with safety on the loyalty and the attachment of his people. "I reflect (these were the words of his Majesty) with the highest satisfaction on the loyalty and affectionate attachment of the great body of my people." It was altogether contrary to the fact, therefore, to say that his Majesty had charged the people with disaffection. His Majesty had, however, said, that he could not view without grief and indignation the attempt of some to traffic with the distresses and the sufferings of the people, and to raise themselves into unenviable notoriety by aggravating calamities where they did exist, and by raising imaginary evils where none were in reality to be found. This was a conjuncture which required all the temper, all the moderation, and all the patience they could command in their deliberations; and he must therefore say, that he regretted the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) should— not with bad intentions, he was sure,— have indulged in inflammatory language, which, to say the least of it, could not conduce to that cool and temperate discussion which was always desirable, and never more necessary than at present. He put it to the hon. Gentleman whether it were right,—whether it were consistent with the fact,—to represent the people of this country as in a starving condition. If there were suffering in some parts of the country, no man, he was sure, could more deeply lament or more sincerely commiserate it, than himself; and, however firm might be the determination he had taken to put down disturbance and acts
979695949392919089Sir R. Peel
105104103l.102hear, hear!101la guerre sourde1009998 said, the duty that I have to perform to-night is to me extremely pleasing, as it affords me some opportunity of repelling calumny, and of vindicating my own motives. I do not stand forward to claim the favour of a hearing —assailed as I have been, I should be entitled to it anywhere—but here I appear as the representative of the people, with almost as many constituents as any Member who hears me, and with more than those of all the Ministry combined. The Members of Government have carefully slunk from all populous places—scarcely one has been returned for more than a
105104103l.102hear, hear!101la guerre sourde1009998Mr. O'Connell
 quite concurred in the sentiments expressed in his Majesty's Speech, and in the policy which it recommended, particularly as regarded Ireland. In these times when so much sedition was abroad, he maintained that it was the duty of the Government to restrain the liberty of the people, or the agitators in Ireland might otherwise cause a rising of the people there. He should decidedly oppose his Majesty's Government, however, if it should go to war, and not retrench. The hon. member for Waterford wished it to go forth that he did not get a favourable hearing in that House. Now he was sure that there was not a single hon. Member who had addressed the House that night who had been more favourably listened to. He protested against the sentiments which had fallen from that hon. Member with regard to the repeal of the Union. In what he had said, he believed that he spoke the sentiments not only of his constituents, but of the majority of the people of this country.Mr. Curteis
118117116115vetoLunnan114Lunnan,113abouchement des Rois,112111110109108107106 spoke as follows: It is with feelings of satisfaction, mingled with pain, that I feel myself called upon to say a few words on this debate—with satisfaction that the hon. member for Waterford has had an opportunity of answering that personal attack which the House has witnessed, and that the patient and profound attention with which he has been listened to, gives an ample refutation of the libel (libel I would not say, for I wish to avoid anything harsh), but the assertion against justice contained in the complaint, that its Members were determined to clamour down the arguments of the hon. Member, and shut their ears to the complaints of his constituents. It is with satisfaction, therefore, that I have listened to the able and eloquent speech of the hon. Member delivered on such an occasion; but it is with pain, with very great pain also, that I have heard that speech, because it contains a picture of Ireland, which, if not magnified in its proportions—if not painted in exaggerated colours, presents to my mind one of the most melancholy and alarming conditions of society ever heard of, or recorded in any state of the civilised world. I was indeed in some hope when I heard the lineaments of that picture, traced as they were by a hand
118117116115vetoLunnan114Lunnan,113abouchement des Rois,112111110109108107106Mr. Brougham
120 wished to make one or two observations only on what had fallen from the hon. and Learned Member for Waterford relative to Ireland. He did not mean to follow him through all his observations, but he begged to state, that in his decided opinion, there was no general wish in Ireland for the repeal of the Union. As a proof of this he referred to the fact, that the hon. and learned Member made an attempt last year to get up a public Dinner to promote that object, and completely failed. He had advertised his meeting, he had done every thing he could to promote his object, but without success—there was no dinner. At the last general election, also, not one word was ever said of the repeal of the Union. He felt confident that the question of the repeal of the Union did not excite general interest in Ireland. He was surprised to hear the hon. Member say, that Ireland had received no benefit from the Union. What was the state of the connection between the two countries before and since the Union? Why, formerly, the trade of Ireland was under numberless restraints; and ever since the Union, measure after measure had been carried to get rid of those restraints. How any friend to Ireland could be blind to the benefits she had obtained by opening the English markets to her produce, was what he could not comprehend. Let the hon. and learned Member only fix some day for discussing the question, and he would undertake to satisfy him that Ireland had obtained a great many benefits from the Union. He was satisfied that the hon. and learned Member's opinions were erroneous. He gave him credit for his intentions, but was, nevertheless, of opinion that his plan would Only add to the distress of Ireland, not remedy it. As for the consumption of Ireland not having increased since the Union, that was quite a fallacy. There were abundant proofs that the consumption of Ireland had increased very much, and at the end of last Session the committee, of which his hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice) was chairman, had elicited much evidence of the fact that, Ireland had become richer and richer every year. He believed, in fact, that there was no country in Europe, in which, during the last few years, improvement had been more rapid. When the hon. Member spoke of the great distress of Dublin, he was convinced that in his statement there was much exaggeration. He trusted that the
120Sir H. Parnell
122121 wished, before he replied to the observations of the hon. member for Waterford, on Ireland, to say a few words on the speech of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Yorkshire. He begged, however, that his learned friend would not suppose that he meant to follow him through the full, eloquent, discursive and amusing speech with which he had favoured the House. In all the latter part of his hon. and learned friend's speech relative to Ireland and the Constitution of this country, he begged leave to express his most cordial acquiescence. His hon. and learned friend had thought proper to colour and exaggerate that part of his Majesty's Speech which related to the Netherlands, but his hon. and learned friend's statements were not sustained by any arguments or facts. His hon. and learned friend could not say, that his Majesty's Speech enforced the doctrine of interference, without wresting the words from their meaning. His Majesty's Speech alluded to the disturbances in Belgium; and with respect to the Belgians he must say, that his hon. and learned friend had distorted the argument. His Majesty stated his regret that the government of the Netherlands had not succeeded, by its conciliatory measures, in pacifying its subjects. If the circumstance had been omitted, would his hon. and learned friend have been contented? His hon. friend stated, that he was averse from war, and was he convinced that his doctrine was the best to secure peace? His Majesty alluded to Belgium — a country closely connected with this—and he expressed his regret that it was involved in troubles, the consequences of which could not be foreseen. He differed from his hon. and learned friend as to his doctrines, and thought his learned friend's opinion was not borne out by facts. He laid down the principle that non-interference was the policy of this country, and
122121Mr. M. Fitzgerald
123 denied that the protection of Ireland from civil war could ever depend on the proclamation of a Lord-lieutenant. If Ireland were in danger of such a calamity, it would require a much more active and powerful influence over public opinion to save her from it. He protested most strongly, both against the statement of danger which had been made by the hon. member for Kerry (Mr. M. Fitzgerald) and against the remedy which he recommended. Whenever, however, the question of the state of Ireland should come under the consideration of Parliament, he hoped that the question respecting the recent proclamation, and the conduct of the Irish Government would be carefully separated from that much greater, that vital question, the repeal of the Union. It was agreed by all the Members of that House—by all but one—that to the Union they must cling; that the continuance of its existence was indispensable to the happiness of Ireland and the stability of the empire; and that, if it were repealed, this country would be
123Mr. Spring Rice
125124 perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Limerick, that it was desirable to avoid a desultory discussion on such a subject, although he was perfectly ready to enter into it, and more especially with respect to his own conduct, in regard to the proclamation that had been adverted to; and he frankly confessed, that he abstained from noticing some of the observations of the hon. and learned member for Waterford, because he thought it better to do so than to give the remotest appearance of a personal character to such a discussion as the present. But, as he thought he perceived that great misconception existed in the minds of several hon. Members on this point, he begged leave to observe, that
125124Sir Henry Hardinge
126 expressed the regret with which he had heard the right hon. Baronet opposite say, that the distress of the districts in which it was endured was without remedy, and that their state of despair could not be relieved. Adverting to the condition of Kent, he stated, that there were two classes of the people under great distress; but that there was a third class, for whom there was no excuse, who were instigated by others to become midnight incendiaries—a character very nearly allied to midnight assassins. By acts of that nature, they hastened their own destruction. At the same time it ought to be considered, that human suffering had a limit, beyond which it could not be borne. The hon. Gentleman read a letter from a Magistrate of Kent, to illustrate the condition of the people. It was as follows:—"I was present at the affray yesterday, and assisted in seizing some of the people. They were very civil, and did not try to strike a blow at any one, though most of them had large sticks in their hands, which is perhaps to be attributed to their being aware that a great number of them were known to myself and others,
126Mr. Hodges
127 adverted to the deep and uninterrupted attention with which the hon. and learned member for Water-ford had been heard—an attention almost unprecedented—as a proof that the people of this country, and the Members of that House were not indifferent to the affairs of Ireland. At the same time, whatever ability the hon. and learned Gentleman had shown, he was undoubtedly much mistaken on the subject of the repeal of the Union with Ireland. With respect to the outrages in Kent, there could be but one opinion of their atrocity. He wished it, however, to be most fully understood
127Sir E. Knatchbull
55 said, he could not allow the opportunity which that question presented, to pass over without giving notice of his intention, on that day fortnight, to bring the great question of a Reform of the Commons House of Parliament fully under consideration. He thought it right to take the opportunity which that notice gave him, to disavow, in the most solemn and deliberate manner, certain plans of Parliamentary Reform which had lately and sedulously, without any good motive that he could ascertain, been ascribed to him. Those plans, and all the plans of a limited, and bounded nature of reform, of which only he was said to be disposed to be the advocate, he begged now fully to say, were not his, but quite the contrary. At the time he formerly alluded to the subject, he had distinctly stated when they were said to be in contemplation, that they had his assent; but he qualified that assent by declaring that he looked to them merely as part and parcel of that larger and more satisfactory change in the representation, which had become so imperatively necessary. In the next place, he begged to deny a report put forth from a quarter very opposite to that of the other, namely, that he was disposed to favour that radical sweeping kind of reformation which he conscientiously believed must ultimately end in something little short of revolution. On the contrary, he had distinctly stated that he intended to bottom his reform on the ancient days of the Constitution of this country, as exhibited in the plan of its representative system. Without entering into details
55Mr. Brougham
 wished to take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether Ministers were prepared to bring forward any measure for the abolishment of imprisonment for small debts.Mr. Hume
129 said, that the right hon. Secretary had pledged himself, several months ago, to bring forward a bill for amending the laws on this subject; still, Session after Session, passed over without anything being done, notwithstanding the numerous petitions that he (Mr. Hume)
129Mr. Hume
130 said, the right hon. Secretary
130Mr. Hume
133 observed, that when it was known that subjects of great importance were about to be discussed in that House, such, for instance, as the abolition of slavery, petitions naturally poured in from all parts of the country. Now, were such
133Colonel Davies
136135134no.cries of said, that it was necessary to adopt some measures to prevent the public business from falling into the same state of arrear in which it had unfortunately got during the last Session and the Session which preceded it. To accomplish that object, he should propose, that the House, besides sitting an additional hour each day, should also make Wednesday and Saturday days of business [136135134no.cries ofMr. Hume
 also expressed his conviction, that the public business could not be conducted as it ought to be, unless some change were made in the pre-sent system. Almost all the important business was now brought on after mid-night, and thus it happened, that few. subjects of paramount interest obtained the discussion which they required. He; had been earlier and later in that House | than any other Member present, always excepting his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex [Cry of "No, no."] He repeated the assertion, and contended, that he had lost a great deal of his time in the House in listening to dull discussions on petitions, which could lead to no useful practical result, when the discussion sought rather to have been reserved till the matter of them came before the House in some shape in which it might produce an useful practical result. He thought that petitioners had no right to expect that a full discussion should take place on their petitions when they were first presented; on the contrary, he thought the House ought to abstain from entering into such discussion. There was another grievance, of which he thought every Member had a right to complain. When fifty or sixty Orders stood simultaneously together, no one, who wished to be present at the discussion of any one of them, could be absent during any part of the time that the House was sitting, and every body knew that it sometimes sat from four o'clock in the afternoon to four o'clock in the morning. If such a person were absent for a single hour, it was very likely that on his return he would find that the question on which he wished to express his opinions had been disposed of in silence during his absence. He therefore thought, that the Orders of the Day ought, in future, never to be taken out of their turn, but should come on in regular rotation; and that no preference should be given to any of them, merely because they had reference to the public business, or were brought forward under the auspices of Ministers.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
139 said, that the lengthened discussion in which they were now engaged, was a good practical illustration of their mode of doing business. He thought that by the regulation now proposed by his hon. friend, those who were inclined to shirk their duty would shirk it still, whilst those who were not would not receive the
139Mr. Hobhouse
 rose, in consequence of the manner in which the hon. member for Abingdon had called upon the Members of his Majesty's Government to give some explanation respecting the practicability of always taking the Orders of the Day in rotation. Speaking without any regard to his own personal convenience, but from his sincere conviction, he must say, that if the House were to come to such a decision as the hon. Member called for, it would preclude the Government from carrying on the business of the country. For instance, the business done in the Committee of Supply was often of indispensable necessity; but if that business could only be taken as it came on in the Orders of the Day, six weeks might elapse before the Minister who had to propose it could bring it under the consideration of Parliament, and then, when he had once lost his turn, he would be unable to regain it for six weeks more, in consequence of the manner in which the Orders of the Day would be arranged. His feeling was, that on a question of this importance they ought to act cautiously in their experiments. As to the dinner-plan of the hon. member for Middlesex, the objection to it had been so well put by the hon. and learned member for Yorkshire, that he felt it unnecessary to press it further. In conclusion, he expressed a hope that the House would agree to make the experiment which had been proposed by his right hon. friend.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he certainly had not understood the hon. Member to have made such a statement as that which he had just offered to the House. But even that statement did not get rid of all the objections which he had to the hon. Member's scheme.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
141 complained, that though he had 13,000 or 14,000 constituents, he could never get an opportunity of speaking, except upon the presentation of petitions. He was ashamed to say, that he was in a sort of dose when his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) began his speech; but when his hon. friend talked about dining, he awoke up directly, at the sound of the word, as being an Alderman, it was natural he should. His hon. friend complained that others had prevented him from taking his dinner; but let him tell his hon. friend, that he (Mr. Hume) had often, by his long speeches, prevented him (Mr. Alderman Waithman) from dining. That his hon. friend did a very great deal of good in the House, he should
141Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that the right hon. Gentleman was not the only Minister of the Crown. All he required was, that some Minister of the Crown should be present during the presentation of petitions.Mr. Hume
 thought the hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) took a very extraordinary view of this subject; for if a petition related to a matter connected with the Home Department, the presence of the Colonial Secretary, or the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would not be much more desirable than that of any other Member. The way, however, of obviating the inconvenience which the hon. Member appeared anxious to guard against was, as it appeared to him, obvious enough. When any hon. Member had a petition to present which he thought required the attention of Government, let him make a communication to the Minister to whose department the subject-matter of the petition belonged. This would ensure the attendance of that Minister.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 attributed much of the agitation in Ireland to the dissatisfaction into which that country had been thrown last year by the propositions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That cause was happily removed, but there still remained great distress in the country. He hoped that the Government would not continue in the course which had already lost Ireland her situation in the scale of the powers of Europe, and lowered her proper rank in the British empire. She was destroyed by taxation. He could say, that in the country he came from, there was no spirit of disturbance, but the people expressed their opinions and sentiments fairly, without exhibiting any spirit which could lead to animosity or tumult. The late proclamations had caused disturbances, as might have been very well foreseen, and it was in vain to think of tranquillizing Ireland by proclamations, for if the substantial causes of agitation were not removed, agitation would not cease. The means of restoring tranquillity to Ireland would be, to give employment to the poor; but whilst the population of that country was idle and destitute, all hopes of tranquillizing it were vain. The people were anxious for employment, more than for any political changes; he was persuaded that they did not wish for a repeal of the Union, if they could only obtain justice from England. Amongst other causes of discontent in Ireland, was the unfortunate separation between the rich and the poor, between whom there unhappily existed no bond of union or sympathy. The discussion of the question to the repeal of the Union could, he thought, be attended with no good consequences, and he regretted to hear any comparison between Belgium and Ireland, these countries being placed in circumstances altogether different.Sir John Bourke
160159 said, that he
160159Mr. Alderman Waithman
163d.s.l.162Some Members said, "untoward.161 could not concur in the Amendment, although he expressed his disapprobation of that part of the Speech and Address which related to the affairs of the Netherlands. He would not give any opinion as to the merits of the quarrel between the King and the people in that country—he would not give any opinion on the subject of the affairs of France, but at the same time he thought, if we considered the situation of matters as they stood at present, that the words of the Royal Speech were calculated to do infinite mischief, instead of restoring tranquillity in the Netherlands, and effecting the union of the two countries. His Majesty was made to talk of three-fifths of the population of the entire country as revolted subjects. We talked of these men as revolted subjects, and yet these were the men who had raised armies, taken towns, and attacked citadels. The persons at the head of the Provisional Government were those with whom we should have to treat if we were really in earnest in our wish to tranquillize the Netherlands. If ever any treaty were to be made, these men must be parties to the negotiation. Such words, then, as those used in the Speech were, to say the least of them, unnecessary, and impolitic, when it was so easy to adopt another mode of expression. It would have been proper to state, that his Majesty regretted, that the attempts of the King of Holland to bring-about a reconciliation with the people of the Netherlands had failed. On the subject of the revolution in France, he believed there was but one opinion, but upon that of the Netherlands he knew that a considerable difference of opinion existed. However, we should take the authorities in the Netherlands as we found them, and we should not use any language in speaking of them, which would tend to excite irritation, or throw obstacles in the way of that amicable negotiation which it was, he presumed, desired to set on foot; for he could not bring himself to believe that the Government of this
163d.s.l.162Some Members said, "untoward.161Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
164 said, that the allusion made in the Speech to the present state of Belgium could not be construed into any intention of war on the part of this country, and he was sure no such intention existed. The words of the Speech referred rather to the disposition of Government to restore tranquillity there by mediation, and that was very natural on the part of Government with respect to a country in which we felt so deep an interest. He must take that opportunity of expressing his regret at the delusion which existed amongst some of the labouring classes, and which led them to acts of riot and outrage; but he was sure that they were urged to those depredations by those who should have given them better advice; and he was convinced, that notwithstanding what had occurred in some places, the mass of the people were sound at bottom. As to Ireland, it was in a much more tranquil state than the exaggerated accounts of some individuals would lead the public to believe. The agriculturists of that country were every day getting an increased vent
164Mr. Cripps
 was inclined, after the King's Speech, and the declaration of the Ministers, to believe, that their conduct would not excite great animosity, and that there could be no fear of a revolution being attempted in this country. He was sorry, however, to learn, that his Majesty did not recommend Reform of the Parliament, as he thought that was necessary, at least so far as to give the right of sending Members to Parliament to the large unrepresented manufacturing towns.Mr. Trefusis
174 felt, great reluctance to" address the House, after the speech of the well-dressed actor, the hon. and learned member for Nottingham, whom he was glad to see in the House again. He was not surprised at the objection which had been made to the King's Speech, by those from whom that objection was natural and proper, viz. that the subject of Parliamentary Reform had not been recommended to the House, He was bound to say, that he saw, as plain as any man, the tide which ran so strong in favour of that question in the country. He knew there had been a clamour raised throughout the land in its favour, and it was no wish or aspiration of his to take an unpopular view of a public question. Still he stood there to say, that, after full consideration, and some little experience, his opinions on that question remained unchanged. What were those opinions? he might be asked. He
174Lord F. L. Gower
 denied the necessity for an armed interference between the king of the Netherlands and his subjects. He was sorry to hear the noble Lord opposite apply the term "clamour" to the expression of popular feeling on the subject of parliamentary reform. That, with other expressions used by official men that night, as well as some portions of their conduct, convinced him, that the Ministers were totally unacquainted with the feelings and sentiments of the people of England. The irresistible torrent of public opinion that was coming down amongst them he hoped would soon efface every vestige of that aristocratic prejudice which had dictated such language.Mr. Sandford
175 Hughes expressed the warmest approbation of every sentiment
175Mr. Hughes 
195 moved, that the two following paragraphs should be added to the Address.195Mr. Hume
 said, he only meant that Ministers would lose their places for not attending to the wishes of the people.Mr. Hume
.—That is what I meant.Mr. Hume
"That we lament, with his Majesty, that the Administration of the King should not have preserved his dominions from civil discord; but derive consolation from the hope that means may be found to restore tranquillity without any violation by the British Government of the wise principle of non-interference with the internal condition and public institutions of other countries."147 said, he was one of the Members who sat for one of the rotten boroughs of Surrey, alluded to by his hon. friend, the member for Abingdon; but his votes always had been, and always should be, given solely with a view to promote the interests of the people. Yet he was not base enough to contend, even for a moment, in favour of the continuance of that degraded system on which the popular opinion had on various occasions been recently pronounced; and though there might be no inconsistency in the omission of a recommendation of reform in the Speech from the Throne, the Ministers who framed the Speech must be afflicted with a terrible blindness indeed, if they thought that reform was never to be conceded to the people of this country. A Minister of the Crown had last night said, that while he was Minister the people should not have reform proposed to them by the Government. He warned the Ministry that it would not long depend on the behest of the Duke of Wellington, whether reform were granted or not. A time would come, when popular opinion must prevail over the counsels of Ministers; and he could only express his fervent hope, that the Government would not irritate the people, and that the people would have more discretion than the Parliament, and would not allow
"That we lament, with his Majesty, that the Administration of the King should not have preserved his dominions from civil discord; but derive consolation from the hope that means may be found to restore tranquillity without any violation by the British Government of the wise principle of non-interference with the internal condition and public institutions of other countries."147Mr. Tennyson
 said, that in the whole of this discussion it appeared to be taken for granted that the petitions presented were indispensable, and that the number of them could not be diminished. Now, this was a very great mistake. It was in the power of the House to lessen the number of petitions, by taking away the causes of those petitions. If the House would consent to parliamentary reform, to the reduction of taxation, and to the abolition of slavery, the only question remaining would be, how they should occupy their time.Mr. D. W. Harvey
138 said, that he had heard various suggestions on this subject, which he thought were impracticable, and that of the right hon. Gentleman appeared to him equally impracticable. But there was one mode in which he thought it would be possible to get through all the business of the House, and the mode was this;— Let three days in the week be appointed
138Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that it was only another proof of the necessity for a better arrangement of the hours and business of that House.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a Petition from numerous persons confined for Small Debts in the Marshalsea Prison of the Four Courts in Dublin, complaining of the state of the Prison, and the great abuses existing in the Court of Conscience for the recovery of Small Debts in that city.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he rose to put a single question to his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, protesting at the same time against his hon. friend's plan for sitting six days in the week,—a labour which no strength but that of his hon. friend, or of himself, or other men of an iron frame, could undergo, no matter whether he was a Minister who had the public business to transact, or a private Gentleman who had nothing to attend to but his own concerns. Protesting, then, against his hon. friend's proposal for sitting on Wednesdays and Saturdays, he would now proceed to put one question to him regarding his dining scheme. Having found easy means to empty the House of its Members at the hour of five, by the ringing of one bell, he wished to know whether his hon. friend had got another bell, of power to bring back to their duties at six o'clock, those Gentlemen whom he had called away at five.Mr. Brougham
ipso facto observed, that he had had it in contemplation to propose a more extensive plan, for the purpose of securing that the House should proceed to the consideration of public business with that freshness of their faculties, and of their bodily strength, so necessary for the purpose. He was quite ready, however, by way at least of a beginning, to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, and he would, therefore, postpone his own plan. He begged to return Mr. Speaker his thanks, in common, he was sure, with every hon. Member who heard him, for the very considerable addition which he had himself proposed to make to his own duties. When the short period which Mr. Speaker had, at present, for repose and recreation was considered, the great sacrifice of an hour of that brief period, was one which the House and the country would know how to appreciate. He would merely throw out one suggestion: what was to be the case if Forty Members were not assembled at three o'clock? Was ipso factoMr. Brougham
 expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the explanation which had been given by the right hon. Secretary.Mr. Brougham
193toto cœlo;192191190189habeas corpus188187186185184183 regretted, that at such a late hour of the night, he should have occasion to rise; for, it was with the greatest reluctance he felt himself again bound to trespass on the House in its then, exhausted state, but he would promise to detain it for a very short time only, harassed as it had been by the discussions of last night as well as of this. He wished to say a few words, and no more, but at the same time he begged to assure the House that
193toto cœlo;192191190189habeas corpus188187186185184183Mr. Brougham
 said, it was evident that a discussion like the present could lead to no practical result, and he begged to suggest that a Select Committee should be appointed to consider the mode of conducting the business of the House.Mr. N. Calvert
 defended the conduct of the Law Committee, and stated, that several bills had been introduced founded on the result of their labours. With respect to the Under-Sheriffs of Ireland, a motion. on the subject had been entered on the Notice paper, night after night during the last Session, and he appealed to the candour of those Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, whether he had not always been in his place ready to bring it forward. But, owing to the lengthened debates, it had never been called on till late at night, and it was then objected to as being too late an hour for the discussion of such a bill.Mr. Doherty
 expressed a hope that some of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite would give an explanation as to whether the Orders of the Day would be taken in future in rotation, and without preference to those brought forward by the Government.Mr. Maberly
140 said, that the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the suggestion which he had thrown out. He had proposed that two days in the week
140Mr. Maberly
146145144 said, that he rose to enter his protest against the very extraordinary Speech they had heard from the Throne. He called it extraordinary, because he thought that nothing could be more extraordinary than for the Ministers to put into the mouth of his Majesty a Speech
146145144Mr. Maberly
 argued, that the cause of the distress amongst the lower classes was the want of sufficient capital to employ them. When the labourer had to depend entirely upon his wages, his support must necessarily depend upon the quantity of capital in the market. At present our population was increasing, and our capital stationary. If the population went on increasing, while capital decreased, misery must be the result. The only remedy for this state of things was, to place the productive labour of the country upon such a footing that it would be the interest of every man to save and employ capital, which was the only remedy that could be applied to the evil. He did not mean to contend that distress was universal, but it was more generally diffused, and more poignant than Ministers seemed to imagine. The hon. Member recommended the giving handsome wages to labourers, which would return a proportionate equivalent to their masters.Mr. Weyland
150149148 observed, that he had the honour of being the Representative of a great population, who had given him their free and unbought votes. He ould tell the House the spirit in which that population
150149148Mr. John Wood
 begged to know, whether there was any understanding with regard to the hour of adjournment. If there was, it ought to be made a Standing Order. He begged also to know, whether Wednesday was to be added to the days of public business, and whether, during the time set apart for receiving petitions, one of the Ministers of the Crown would be always present.Mr. J. Wood
 said, that the Law Commission was not that to which the question of imprisonment for debt ought to be referred. Neither would he be willing to throw the burthen upon the right hon. Baronet. But why should not the right hon. Baronet, call on the House of Commons to discuss this important subject? There were, he was sure, many Gentlemen in that House, who, if the right hon. Baronet brought the subject before them, would gladly apply themselves to it.Mr. M. A. Taylor
155154l.153152151 said, that when he saw the gentlemen of influence and of property in England rising around him to express the feeling which his Majesty's Speech was calculated to produce on their constituents, he could not imagine but it would be some consolation to the people of Ireland, even though there was nothing in the Speech from the Throne which was calculated to awaken their hope, yet it surely would be some consolation for them to know, that their cause was not without advocates, and that there were amongst their Representatives, those who deeply sympathised in their state and sufferings. If it were the duty of the people to obey the law, it was no less the duty of their Representatives to inquire into the causes of its infraction. Representatives ought to be the natural guardians and protectors of the people, and he unhesitatingly declared that Ireland was now reduced to a situation requiring the strongest exercise of wisdom and of honesty to prevent her being rapidly precipitated into evils, out of which it would be extremely difficult, or perhaps impossible, for her to extricate herself. It was his duty to state, in few words, the causes which appeared to him to have induced this distressing state of things in Ireland, and to assure the House of his sincere and anxious desire to do so with the strictest attention to impartiality
155154l.153152151Mr. Leader
 refused to entertain any plan of parliamentary reform, as he conceived that every interest in the country was already sufficiently represented. He viewed the proposal with inexpressible dismay, and greatly feared it would be discovered, when too late, that the change demanded was very much miscalled by those who designated it reform. His constituency comprised a great number of votes, and he did not hesitate to say, that the question was one of the most dangerous ever mooted within the walls of Parliament. It appeared, however, that no twenty men of those who advocated "reform," could be found to agree in opinion as to what would be the best mode of attaining it.Mr. H. Davis
173172l.171170 felt gratified at the speech which had been delivered by the right hon. Secretary opposite (Sir G. Murray). That speech, he was convinced, would be received with satisfaction throughout the country. He only regretted that, in another place, where a Minister of the Crown had thought it necessary to explain the ambiguous meaning of part of his Majesty's Speech, similar sentiments were not to be discovered. It was matter of deep regret, that in these times of alarm, while a right hon. Secretary in the House of Commons was expressing himself in favour of Reform, and not even restricting himself from approving of a measure for universal suffrage—(for he had declared his anxiety to discuss every plan of Reform, and his desire to know how the House of Commons could be reformed, so as to be made fit for the purposes of good government, the only principle on which any reform was proposed)—a noble person at the head of the Government, and who might be said to direct the destinies of Europe, had, within twenty-four hours, and within 100 yards of that spot, declared that no Reform should be listened to. Not only would the Government bring forward no plan of Reform as had been fondly expected, but no plan was to be listened to, and no amendment of the Constitution was to be suffered. The people were indebted to the right hon. Secretary for the sentiments which he had expressed, but they were more obliged to the noble person at the head of the Government for having fairly told them what they had to expect, and let them into the secret as to the principles on which the government of the country was to be conducted. It was with regret and disappointment he had heard every paragraph of his Majesty's Speech read from the Chair. There was not a single sentence in it worthy the approbation of an enlightened Administration or
173172l.171170Mr. Denman
 said, that regulations, he was convinced, would not remedy the evils complained of, unless hon. Members would use their own discretion in addressing the House. He was afraid, too, that the public would not be satisfied unless Wednesday were added to the days of public business.Mr. Spring Rice
143 thought it impossible to fix any hour for the adjournment of the House. A regulation of that character would, he was convinced, be extremely mischievous. They must not make it peremptory to break off in the midst of a discussion, no matter how important and how pressing that discussion might be. It would be better to leave it to the House to determine, on motion made at the time,
143Sir R. Peel
142 said, that all that had taken place during this discussion confirmed him in the opinion he had expressed at the outset,—namely, that the question was one of extreme difficulty. All that could be hoped for was, that hon. Members would use their individual discretion. Any Gentleman might, if he pleased, detain the House for four or five hours, and unless Gentlemen would curtail their speeches, or the House put down the practice of enlarging unnecessarily upon fertile topics of argument and oratory, he did not see what good any regulation could answer. They had got now into the habit of printing almost every petition, and the reason assigned for this course was, the prevention of lengthy discussions upon petitions; yet, since this plan had been adopted, he was sure that debates upon petitions had been considerably lengthened. All that could be done by way of regulation on the subject was, as it appeared to him, to give up two hours to private business,—the public business being brought on always at five o'clock. At the same time it should be understood, that any Gentleman who thought proper might present a petition at any other period of the evening, if there should be no public business before the House. After all, however, almost every thing must depend upon the individual discretion of hon. Members, who could do much more than any regulation could effect towards the attainment of the desired end, if they would address themselves fairly and seriously to the subject tinder debate, laying aside all extraneous matter, and not indulging in surplus eloquence which never carried conviction
142Sir Robert Peel
132131 said, that before he made the Motions which were usual at the commencement of every Session, for giving precedence on certain days to Orders, and on certain days to Notices, he wished to make a few observations on the general conduct of the business of that House. It was quite evident, from the occurrences of the last Session, and it was quite evident, even from the notices which had that evening been given (all of them, he willingly acknowledged, on subjects of great importance), that it would be a matter of exceeding difficulty to devise the means of satisfactorily transacting the public business. In point of fact, the great difficulty was, for the House to find time for the adequate performance of its several duties. It would undoubtedly be
132131Sir Robert Peel
 said, that he had devoted as much time as the duties of his office would permit to the subject in question; but he would repeat, that it was one which required great professional knowledge, and serious inquiry, before the established law could be so materially altered.Sir Robert Peel
 observed, that the hon. Gentleman had no right to impose on him the duty of bringing forward a bill on any subject, or to dictate to him in what manner he ought to perform his parliamentary duties. If the hon. Gentleman saw a necessity for an alteration of the law of imprisonment for debt, or any other law, he could introduce a bill himself. He had the power and privilege of doing so. He must deny that he had ever pledged himself to bring forward any bill on this subject, but had merely informed the hon. Member, that the question, which was one of great importance, was under the consideration of the Commissioners, who were most competent to inquire into it. He really was not prepared to alter, off-hand, the most important laws of the country, without maturely considering the probable results, and receiving that professional assistance that the importance of the question demanded.Sir Robert Peel
 replied, that he certainly was unprepared to bring forward any measure for the alteration of the laws of imprisonment for debt; but the subject had been referred to the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the laws, and they (being fully and best qualified for the purpose) had undertaken the very arduous and difficult task of inquiring into this important subject at the earliest opportunity, and Government had determined not to interfere until their report was completed.Sir Robert Peel
 said, he was desirous of saying a few words with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman respecting the recognition of Don Miguel; because he was as anxious as the hon. and learned Gentleman that a good understanding should subsist between this country and France. In the last Speech from the Throne, which was delivered on the 4th of February, 1830, an allusion was made to the probability of the recognition of Don Miguel. His Majesty saw, that numerous embarrassments in our relations made that desirable. It was unnecessary to state that at that time no events had occurred in France which rendered the recognition of Louis Phillips necessary. The latter had been immediately recognized—the recognition of the former had not yet taken place; it must be evident therefore to all, that the two events were not connected.Sir R. Peel
182181180179178177176 said, that the discussion which had just taken place, imposed on him the duty of making one or two observations on the subject of parliamentary reform, respecting which the hon. and learned member for York had so recently given notice of a motion. This task he would rather, on the present occasion have avoided, as he was unwilling to express an opinion on such a question, until it should have been legitimately brought under the consideration of the House. A construction, however, had been put on the declarations of his right hon. friend, which deprived him of an alternative. With regard to the question generally, he might remark, that he had never hitherto taken a very decided part. Opposed to it he admitted he certainly had been, but at the same time (with very few exceptions), he had contented himself with a silent vote.
182181180179178177176Sir R. Peel
194 said, he could best answer the question by stating the circumstances connected with the proposed amnesty. We had done all in our power, by advice and friendly interference, to consult the interests of those who were denounced by the present government of Portugal. The language we held was, that we did not require the issuing of that amnesty, as
194Sir R. Peel
.—Surely the hon. Member does not call that vengeance.Sir R. Peel
 rose, and protested against the use of such language as that which had fallen from the lips of the hon. Gentleman. He was convinced it would be rejected and repudiated by every man of honour or property in the country: and that it would not even meet the approbation of the lower orders, for whom it was meant.Sir R. Peel
Cheers from the Opposition benches.168167166165 said, it had been remarked at the commencement of the evening by his right hon. friend (Sir R. Peel) that brevity in their addresses to the House would very much facilitate the progress of the public business; and to prove that he fully concurred in the pro priety of the remark, and the necessity of attending to it, he would, at least, in what he had to say, set an example, and be brief. A great deal had been said upon the subject of Ireland; but it had all been incidental, for it did not flow naturally out of any part of the King's Speech, nor had he heard it said, that the topic ought to have been introduced into the Royal Speech. He would not, therefore, go at length into the subject, but he would take that opportunity of saying most positively, that the repeal of the Union ought not to take place. England and Ireland were so intimately and so inseparably connected, that even the idea of separation ought not to be entertained. He must also state his
Cheers from the Opposition benches.168167166165Sir George Murray
158 said, that it was of importance at the present moment that every Member of that House, however inadequate might be his abilities to venture upon discussion, should declare his opinion on the situation of the country. They had then met under circumstances of no ordinary difficulty, and it was the duty of every man to render assistance, by offering his advice to Ministers and to the House, upon the present emergency. He should not enter into the details of the Speech, but he would express his serious apprehension of that passage of it, to which that part of the Address related, which it was now proposed should be amended. The right hon. Gentleman had declared that there was no intention of interfering hostilely in the affairs of Belgium, and he believed that his Majesty's Ministers had no
158Mr. Robinson
169 thought, that the general complaint against his Majesty's Speech was occasioned, not by what it said, but by what it had omitted. He certainly regretted that not a word had been said
169Sir R. Gresley
 complained of the expense incurred in the appointment of Committees of Inquiry, when the results of their labours were thrown away, and rendered of no utility, by the reports remaining unnoticed, and their recommendations of improvement passing unheeded. This was more particularly the case with the report on the Under-Sheriffs in Ireland, which, although made five years ago, had never been acted upon.Sir John Newport
 gave his cordial support to the Address, and thought that the passage which had been objected to, relative to Belgium, was a very proper one.Mr. Trevor
 observed, that it was not inconsistent for the King to omit, in his Speech from the Throne, any recommendation of Reform, for such a recommendation, he believed, had never been made in a King's Speech during the last 200 years. With respect to reform, about the necessity of which so much was now said, he must declare that he had never seen any plan to which he felt he could accede, and he believed few of those who advocated it were agreed upon the sort of reform that was necessary.Lord Eastnor
157156 said, he had a few observations to make which he should take the liberty of doing without transgressing the salutary order suggested in the course of a long debate, as to the best means of shortening their labours. He found, from the speeches upon all sides, that the state of Ireland required great attention and considerable relief. Relief and attention he hoped it would experience, but, in the mean time, the patriots of the two countries should oppose themselves to measures which could only lead to separation and
157156Lord Morpeth
 wished to know, whether, in the event of Don Miguel granting the amnesty, it was the intention of the British Government to interfere to compel him to execute it if he should be disposed not to do so. Unless there should be some guarantee for the execution of the amnesty, individuals would not venture to place themselves within Don Miguel's power.Lord Palmerston
 rose, he said, for the purpose of impressing on Ministers the necessity —the important necessity—of their communicating, previous to their going into a Committee of Supply, the line of conduct, that is, of general policy, which they meant to pursue. Their not having done so was the cause of great public alarm, and by that means of great loss of property to individuals. It was feared, from the tone of the King's Speech with respect to Belgium, and of the explanation which Ministers had offered of that Speech, that they meant to plunge this country into a war, the consequence of which must be most ruinous. He was satisfied that they had no such intention; but still he felt, in common with many intelligent persons in that House and elsewhere, that it was impossible for any man to say where our "conference, for the tranquillity of Belgium," would end. Indeed, so great was the alarm consequent upon our intended negotiations, that he understood the funds had that day fallen from two to three per cent lower than they had been since the first announcement of the late French Revolution. It was, therefore, highly incumbent on Ministers to satisfy the public mind as to their intentions.Mr. Hume
202201in limine, rose, to move for leave to bring in a Bill, for doing away with the necessity of taking the Oath of Abjuration on the acceptance of Civil Office, and of the Oaths taken by the Members of that House before the Lord Steward. He had last Session given notice of his intention; so that it would not be necessary for him then to explain more than the general purport of his measure. It might be asked 202201in limine,Mr. C. W. Wynn
 entirely concurred in the right hon. Gentleman's proposition; and could see no reason why any oath should be required from Members except the Oath of Allegiance. He begged, however, to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet opposite, to the extraordinary difference between the oaths prescribed to the Protestant, and the oath prescribed to the Roman Catholic Member of that House. The latter, which was admirably framed, was infinitely better than the former; for in it, the Oaths of Abjuration, Allegiance, and Supremacy were embodied in a much more intelligible and rational form than that of the three oaths which the Protestant Member was obliged to take. The Roman Catholic Member was exempted from the necessity of swearing, that no foreign Prince or Prelate had any spiritual jurisdiction in this realm. Now to him it appeared most extraordinary that the Protestant Member who never could be supposed to believe that any foreign Prince or Prelate had any spiritual jurisdiction in this realm, was called upon to negative such a supposition on oath, while the Roman Catholic Member, who of course did entertain such a belief, was not called upon to comply with any such obligation. He hoped that means would be taken to simplify the existing oaths; preserving the only oath which appeared to him to be necessary—the Oath of Allegiance.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
203 supported the Motion; and recommended the abolition rather than the alteration of the oaths in question. There was no country in the world in which so many oaths were required; and
203Mr. O'Connell
204 expressed his earnest hope that as soon as circumstances would permit, every civil distinction would be abolished. So long, however, as the Protestant and the Roman Catholic Members were called upon to take different oaths at the Table of that House, all which could had been done to facilitate so desirable an object. He confessed, however, that he agreed with the hon. and learned member for Water ford, that there were higher and deeper reasons for acquiescing in the proposed measure. He did not know what sacrifice he would not cheerfully make, to abolish one of those impious appeals to the Almighty which were now so frequent. Every moral and religious consideration required that the number of oaths should be reduced as much as possible. A great many petitions had been put into his hands on the subject. It had been his intention to bring it under the consideration of the House; and he had contemplated showing the scandalous multiplicity of the oaths taken in this country, by moving for a Return of the number taken in a certain period, with reference either to the Customs or to the Excise. Having some difficulty, however, as to the form of his Motion he had consulted the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject; and, in a few minutes he was satisfied that the returns would be so vo-
204Lord Nugent
 expressed his cordial concurrence in the measure, and a wish that both Protestants and Catholics should take the same oaths.Mr. R. Palmer
 expressed his hope, that the Legislature would not repeal or alter that part of the Abjuration Oath in which those who took it declared their attachment to our present race of Sovereigns, they being descendants of the Electress Sophia.Mr. Cresset Pelham
206205 understood his right hon. friend to have two objects in view in his present Motion. The first was, to dispense with the necessity of taking, before the Lord Steward, oaths which were afterwards taken with greater solemnity at ' the Table of the House; and the second was, to dispense with the necessity of de- daring, that the descendants of the person falsely pretending to be Prince of Wales, had no claim whatever to the Throne. He would candidly confess that he had not had leisure to consider this subject; but his first impression was, that there was no objection to the accomplishment of those two objects. At the same time that he said this, he reserved to himself the liberty of further considering this question; and if he discovered any objections to his right hon. friend's proposal, he should reserve to himself the right of opposing his bill at some future stage. At present he saw no difficulties in the way of his right hon. friend's proposition, and he acquiesced in granting permission to bring in the bill. He must confess, that the longer he lived, the more clearly did he see the folly of yielding a rash and precipitate assent to any political measure. He therefore would not pledge himself not to oppose this bill. There might be objects attained by it, which even his right hon. friend himself did not at that moment perceive. If it should appear to him that there were such objects, that would be an additional reason to him to oppose the bill. He should certainly object to the total repeal of the Oath of Abjuration, though there were parts of it which might now unquestionably be dispensed with. It was right to require
206205Sir R. Peel
 wished to ask the right hon. Baronet if he did not think that the Oath of Allegiance was the only oath which ought to be taken by Members of Parliament on their admission to their seats.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 observed, that the inquiry of the hon. Member showed the necessity of the caution which he had already recommended. The effect of declaring that the Oath of Allegiance was sufficient, would be at once to decide the question agitated last Session, with respect to the admission of Jews into the House. If it were proper that such an admission should take place, the object ought to be effected by a direct motion, and not by a sidewind.Sir R. Peel
Mr. O'Connell cried "Name." thought, that this Oath of Abjuration ought not to be hastily abolished: for he had read in some Roman Catholic authors of great learning, research, and talent, that they considered the title of the House of Sardinia to the Crown of these realms as dormant,—not as extinguished. [Mr. O'Connell cried "Name."Sir C. Wetherell
207 said, that he wished to prevent a misconception from going abroad,
207Mr. O'Connell
: I have said nothing-offensive, I hope, to Mr. Butler. I am sure that if I did, I meant it not. I should not even have mentioned his name, had I not been so pointedly called upon to do so.Sir C. Wetherell
209 rose to move for information respecting our relations with foreign Powers, particularly with Belgium and Holland, which had formerly, he believed, been laid before the House. He was desirous that all the papers upon this subject should be collected and laid on the Table, that they might be ready to be referred to by all the Members of that House, whenever occasion might require. He was specially anxious that this should be effected, because, in another place, it had been stated by one of the Ministers of the Crown, that the future actions of the Government, with respect to Belgium, would depend upon the treaties by which it was bound; and as the Members of that House would have eventually to decide upon an examination of these treaties, he trusted there would be no objection to their being laid before them. He wished to remind the House of what happened with regard to Portugal. The treaties with that country were, for the most part, of at least 120 years' standing, and were supposed to have lapsed, until one of our Ministers, at the time troops were ordered to Portugal, declared that they were in operation, and the House was called on to act on them forthwith, although great difference of opinion prevailed as to the necessity of that line of conduct. He therefore hoped, that Government would not object to have those papers laid on the Table. The hon. Member moved for copies of all the exist-
209Mr. Hume
 said, the treaties might be copied, and then it would be for the House to consider, whether they should be printed or no.Mr. Hume
 was glad to see the right hon. Gentleman so economical; but he suggested that the printing of those papers might perhaps prevent a war. How were they to know what treaties Ministers referred to? He (Mr. Hume) had himself a good library, but how was he to find out the treaties in his books? Besides, there were many hon. Members who had not received copies of the treaties already laid on the Table.Mr. Hume
 expressed himself satisfied.Mr. Hume
l. observed, the system of providing all parliamentary documents for new Members, would be one of profuse expenditure—it would cost at least 40,000l.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that the too frequent orders for the copying out of long documents already published, occasioned a great increase in the number of persons employed in the public offices. All the necessary treaties might be found in the "Annual Register."Sir Robert Peel
 said, he had no objection to the production of those papers; but really, all that was material might be found by reference to documents already published. He therefore thought, that on a principle of economy the Motion was unnecessary; but, unfortunately, the hon. Member always objected to his economy. Every thing in the least necessary for all legitimate subjects of debate was of easy access.Sir Robert Peel
211 presented a Petition from Cocker-mouth, praying for Reform, and declaring that Annual Parliaments, Universal Suffrage, and Vote by Ballot were necessary for the salvation of the country. The petitioners also said, and he thought their
211Mr. O' Connell
 said, that if his Majesty's Ministers were thought to be unworthy of the confidence of the House and the country, it was in the power of the Members to express that opinion, and effect their removal; but he thought that it would be derogatory to the character of Parliament to take any notice of language such as that now addressed to them.Mr. Arbuthnot
, on the part of all those who dissented from the terms of the Speech from the Throne, protested on his part against the conclusion of the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty, that they or the House were at all pledged to the principles of the Speech, because they allowed the Address to pass without opposition. Even the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Home Department, had expressly declared that the House was not pledged to the terms of the Speech by agreeing to the formality of an Address, He believed, indeed, that the language of that Speech, and the declaration respecting Reform, which followed it, had armed new opponents against the Ministry, and that many of the greatest friends of the Government were disposed to withdraw from it their support. What confidence, indeed, could the country have in such a Government? What could be expected from a Ministry which left the destinies of Ireland in the hands of an individual? For that they were so was plain, from the admissions made in that House. That hon. Member had been charged with an attempt to produce a rebellion, and he had replied with a modesty, peculiar to himself, and which he had no doubt was perfectly well founded—"No, I did not excite the people to rebellion; I prevented a rebellion." The Government, however, which left in the power of an individual the means of exciting or preventing a rebellion was unworthy of the confidence of the House or of the country. He trusted that the hon. Secretary would learn more accurately what took place in the House before he again reproved hon. Members for inconsistency.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that his Majesty's resignation of the hereditary revenues of the Crown did not comprise those of Cornwall and Lancaster, because those of Cornwall never became the property of the Crown, unless when there was no Heir-apparent of the Throne; and the revenues of Lancaster had been, from a very early period, subject to peculiar regulations, totally independent of its authority.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, if the hon. Member had any objection to divide his Motion into parts. If not, he was prepared to support the latter part of it, although he could not consent to entail on the Members of that House the onerous and impracticable task demanded in the first part.Mr. Bernal
 also observed, that the returning officers of Boroughs and Cities were the only persons possessed of the information which the hon. Member required by the first part of the Motion. In many places a contest had not taken place for years, and how, in such a case, was the Member to obtain information with respect to the residency or number of the voters?Colonel Davies
216l.l., expressed his regret that no committee to take the distress of the country into consideration was to be proposed by his Majesty's Government, and his hope that some hon. Member would step forward and make the proposition himself. If, however, the question were not taken up by abler hands, he should consider it his indispensable duty to move for an investigation of the distress under which the whole country was suffering, particularly the labouring classes. He should not do his duty to his constituents were he not to take this step. The question now was, not simply whether they would have reformation or not—they had to choose between reformation and absolute perdition. He had that day heard of a circumstance which proved the great falling-off that had taken place, and that was inevitable, in the receipts of the revenue. In one district in which the assessed taxes had formerly produced 10,000216l.l.,Mr. Alderman Waithman
 requested the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state the order in which he meant to take the Estimates in the Committee of Supply.Mr. Stanley
 said that it was his intention to go regularly through them, as in the last Session. It was his intention to submit to the House the propositions respecting the Civil List on Friday next, so that the Committee of Supply would not be required to sit until the Monday after.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. gave notice, that on Monday week, on the Motion for going into the Committee of Supply, he would move certain Resolutions respecting the mode in which Parliament and the country had been led into an expenditure of 600,000l.Mr. Stanley
toto wished to say, that he differed in totoSir John Bourke
loud laughter, and cries of hear, hear!219218217 observed, that before the Speaker left the Chair, he wished to inform hon. Members that this was the period at which the Commons of England, if they had any complaint to make, or any grievance to represent, ought to make, or represent it. If their constituents had commissioned them for any such purpose, now was their time. In the execution of his own duty, and in compliance with the requests of his constituents, he now begged
loud laughter, and cries of hear, hear!219218217Mr. Hume
 said, that he rose out of courtesy to the hon. Member who had just sat down, although he believed that he might appeal to the whole House that there was no necessity, after what he had formerly said, to reply at all to the hon. Member's question. He could assure the hon. Member that if he thought that either the Duke of Wellington, or any other of his Majesty's Ministers, were capable of such conduct, he should lose not a moment—nay, he should be foremost—in bringing that subject under the immediate consideration of Parliament.Mr. Hume
l.225224 said, that he rose with reluctance to prolong a discussion of so tedious and unsatisfactory a nature; but certain circumstances which had occurred in the debate, and certain expressions which had been used by his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, appeared to him to be of such a nature that they ought not to be passed over without notice. As far as his own experience went, he must say, that it was quite clear that we had not had, since the conclusion of the war, any period in which the essential interests of the country were moving more satisfactorily than they were moving a few months ago. He did not mean to say that they were moving with enormous profits and splendid results,—all he meant to say was, that the returns of our commerce, though moderate, were still satisfactory, When the great events which had recently occurred upon the Continent became known on this side of the Channel, they had a tendency to produce general excitement in one quarter and general apprehension in another—two
l.225224Mr. Baring
.—Does that originate with me? If not, why mention it?Mr. Hume
227l.226—"My hon. friend does me gross injustice when he supposes that I am going to make my speech entirely about him. I was mentioning an exaggerated statement which I had seen in a placard out of doors, and was proceeding to correct it. My hon. friend gets up to correct and stop me, but I never knew him get up to remove an exaggeration, though I hold it to be as much the duty of a public man to remove exaggerations as it is to detail fairly the real grievances of his country. But to proceed. I saw in that same placard a list of other exaggerations, equally unfounded with that which I have just mentioned. Of that noble Lord, in his
227l.226Mr. Baring
 wished to take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman a question. Had any report been received from the commission appointed last Session to inquire into the finances and expenditure of the Colonies?Mr. Labouchere
 said, that the commissioners had not yet completed their work, though they had made considerable progress in it. The result of their labours would, however, be shortly placed before the public.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved that a Supply be granted to his Majesty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
231Cries of "hear, hear!"Cries of "Question."230229 said, that though he had refrained from opposing the motion for the Speaker's leaving the Chair, it had not been because he was satisfied with the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. That statement had not convinced him that the Government did not intend to go to war. The right hon. Secretary had not told them whether it would be necessary for this country to have recourse to
231Cries of "hear, hear!"Cries of "Question."230229Mr. Hume
233232 said, that if, in addressing the House, he had ever assumed a tone or appearance which savoured of presumption or arrogance, no man could be more ashamed of such indecorum—no man more anxious to apologize for it—than himself. He trusted, however, that he had never so far forgotten himself,—that he had never been so insensible to the respect which was due from him to the House. If, however, such impropriety of conduct could be fairly charged against him, still a lecture upon such a subject could not possibly have come from a more unfit person than the hon. member for Middlesex. From the manner in which that hon. Member thought proper to address the House, a stranger might suppose that there was no Representative of the people in it but the hon. member for Middlesex,—no one who understood the affairs of Government but the hon. member for Middlesex, and that the hon. member for Middlesex was privi-
233232Mr. Baring
223222 protested against the practice of taunting hon. Members, when they remonstrated against the measures of
223222Colonel Davies
Hear, hear,242241l.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.240d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d;s.l.239l.l.l.l.l.238 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for a copy of the King's Printer's Patent. In doing so, he regretted that the hon. member for Callington was not present, as, one fact being worth fifty arguments, he should be able to prove to that hon. Member, that there were other motives which influenced Members in that House besides patriotism and the good of the country, by which alone he was sure that his hon. friend was influenced. He had greatly to complain of the conduct of Government in not redeeming its pledges as to economy. The Government had pledged themselves to effect every practicable economy in every department of the State, and he had to complain, that on the expiration of the patent to the King's Printer, they had not redeemed that pledge, by acting upon the recommendation of a former committee of that House. He had supposed, that the principle as to patents had been long since settled. He conceived that his Majesty had a right to grant patent privileges to certain individuals, for certain inventions or improvements, but he was of opinion that the King had no right to grant exclusive rights to individuals, by patent, to
Hear, hear,242241l.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.240d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d;s.l.239l.l.l.l.l.238Mr. Hume
243 said, that he had some reason to complain of the course which the hon. Member had thought proper to pursue. He had merely given notice of his intention to move for papers, and, instead of deferring his charges until the papers were produced, by which they might be refuted or substantiated, he had availed himself of his motion to put forth statements which at least ought to have been postponed. He would appeal to the House whether, before the documents moved for were produced, it was right for the hon. Member to discuss the propriety of granting the patent to the King's printer. Before the House could come to any conclusion upon the point, it must be in possession of the patent and other documents moved for. It was alleged that Mr. Pitt had appointed a gentleman to that office, and that he had kept up a scale of high charges in order to avail himself of the parliamentary services of him whom he had appointed; but was it fair to urge the same charge against those who now acted upon an opposite principle? An immense saving
243The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—Not quite so: it is likewise a matter of principle and of opinion.Mr. Hume
l. continued.—The patent to the King's printer was connected with the privileges of the Universities, for upon both did the public depend, that neither in the laws of God nor in the laws of Parliament should any inaccuracy be found. The patent, moreover, gave to things printed by the King's printer an authority in the courts of justice. The Duke of Wellington had taken every opportunity of abolishing offices that were useless to the public; and to prove this he need but to apply to the Boards of Stamps, Customs, and Excise, in each of which recent commissions had not been filled up. By not filling up the place of Mr. Carr, the public had saved 5,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 complained that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had put in his mouth words which he had never uttered.Mr. Hume
 moved for returns of Pensions to widows of Officers of the Army, Navy and Civil service. He could not but confess him self averse to all public pensions, as they merely produced extravagance in individuals, and only effected results which might be attained by economy, and without burthening the public. A system of individual saving, to establish pension funds, had been commenced in private companies, and the contributions were from the salaries of the clerks. From this day forward, he would maintain, that no man, unless he was injured in the public service, ought to be entitled to a pension. He wished to get out of the present vicious principle entirely; for until pensions for one class, and poor-rates to provide for another, were got rid of, it was hopeless to expect that the country would have either a body of independent gentlemen or a body of independent peasantry. The poor of Scotland were many degrees better than those of England, for they depended upon their own exertions and upon the feelings of their neighbours, and not upon the right to parochial relief. In the same manner he believed that the middle classes would be better if they had neither pensions nor bounties to look for.Mr. Hume
 maintained, that the widows' pensions were now governed upon a principle which could not encourage any extravagance in officers.Lord F. L. Gower
 thought, that the widows of common soldiers ought to be entitled to pensions, and he denied that there was any wish on that side of the House to reduce the widows of officers and of common soldiers to the same level.Mr. Warburton
 complained, that the rich man's wife now had a pension, and the poor man's had none. The soldier and sailor, the real nerve and arm of war, had no claim to this bounty, whilst others had.Mr. Hume
 denied the correctness of the last observation of the hon. member for Middlesex.Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that it had been asserted that he had made a contract to vote for Government in consideration of the advantages he derived from the patent. He denied the assertion, and defied any man to show such a contract: no man or set of men in that House had the right to command his vote, and if he differed from the opposite side of the House, that difference was not to be imputed to corruption. For his part he denied the charge. He did not fear the production of the patent, though he wished to hear from the legal Gentlemen in the House whether it was customary to produce the legal documents the hon. Member had called for.Mr. Spottiswoode
236 merely rose to say one word on the present occasion, as he had not an opportunity of doing so on Tuesday evening. If he had been able to attend, he should have supported the amendment of his noble friend, and should Lave expressed his opinion on the conduct of the Administration. He agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Bletchingly, that the country was entitled to know, whether it was the intention of Ministers to propose any reduction of taxation; the people ought to be informed what they were to expect; and before Ministers were entitled to ask for supplies, they ought to pledge themselves that reductions should be made. The people of England had never manifested the least indisposition to grant proper supplies to the Crown; they had always been willing to give their money liberally when they thought it necessary; but when it was demanded for the purpose of supporting-placemen and pensioners, or for building additional wings to Windsor Castle, they might justly desire, being themselves in distress, to keep it in their own pockets. The people of England had entertained Lopes that the Ministers would have come down to the House and proposed some great reduction in taxation. It would have been a subject of great pleasure to all, that such an announcement had been made in the King's Speech; which might Lave administered some relief to the agonies of an impoverished people. A right hon. Gentleman said, that the country was suffering under a passing cloud; but it would be long before the condition of the people was materially improved. He was determined to support the cause of the people. He would support the people, not in their riotous conduct,—for that he should be the first to oppose and put down,—but in their constitutional and legal mode of demanding a reduction of their burthens; and the Ministry not only ought, but would find they must do something more than they had hitherto done, for the relief of the people. He heard with considerable surprise the hon. member for Callington declare, that the country was in an improving condition, and that the people were better off now than at any period since the Peace. He denied the truth of that statement, and maintained that the distress became greater every day.
236Colonel Sibthorp
235234 said, that he was not in the habit of using strong language in addressing that House, let the subject of the discussion be what it might; and justice towards his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, required him to say, that he did not hear him make use of any expressions which he himself would not have uttered; and his expressions did not deserve the strong remarks which had been made on them. The language used by his hon. friend was not such as to inflame the minds of the people, but was merely a representation of that state of public feeling at this moment to which he was desirous of calling the attention of Parliament. He differed from the opinion entertained by the hon. member for Callington, viz. that it was expedient to soften down the statements of public distress, for he must know that the public ferment was very great. Indeed, no one could deny it, and such ferment would be better allayed by individuals who held seats in that House, stating openly, and even in strong terms, their sentiments upon the subject, (provided the language
235234Mr. Tennyson
 withdrew the Motion, with the understanding that he would renew it in another shape.Mr. Harvey
214 said, he had a Resolution to submit to the House, but as he had not had an opportunity of communicating its purport to the Tight hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir R. Peel), he should take leave to
214Mr. D. W. Harvey
, in moving for a Return of the Expenses of the Management of the Crown Lands, and an Account of the number of Leases granted, Fines paid, and Sales made, whether privately or by public auction, since the year 1786, begged at the same time to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he was to understand that the announcement in his Majesty's Speech respecting the relinquishment of the hereditary revenues of the Crown, applied to those of Cornwall and Lancaster?Mr. Harvey
244 said, that if the hon. Member was so willing to exculpate himself by producing the papers, he need not be so desirous of knowing what legal Gentlemen would say about the custom of affording documents to elucidate such a case. He would remind the hon. Gentleman, that in the Court of Chancery any man could get such papers, provided he could afford to pay for the stamps. It had not been asserted that the King's printer had entered into any contract to vote on all occasions for the Ministers: it had only been maintained that the chances were that the King's printer, as long as he
244Mr. O'Connell
237 did not rise to oppose the Motion, but as the Act referred to had made no effectual reform in the administration of justice in England, it must not be understood that the Bill proposed to be introduced, would effect any legal reform in Ireland. He would take this opportunity of noticing the manner of appointing Judges in Ireland. None but a man who had been much employed in the Courts could make a good Judge; but such offices had always been filled by political gentlemen,—he would not call them political adventurers,—who were thus rewarded for the services they had performed to Government in that House. This had been the case in the last appointment. The Ministers did not inquire who bore the best character in the Hall, but they came to this House, and having found a gentleman who always voted for them, they gave him the appointment. This was a proof of the want of a resident legislature in Ireland. Such an occurrence could not take place in this country, nor ought it to take place in any part of the
237Mr. O'Connell
 said, that so far from being open to the censure contained in the speech of the hon. Secretary, he had actually seconded the Amendment to the Address moved by the noble member for Woodstock.Mr. O'Connell
 justified the expression he had used. What else was it but adopting the Duke of Wellington's own words?Mr. O'Connell
 moved for a Return of the number of persons killed and wounded in Ireland in the various contests with the police.Mr. O'Connell
 expressed his surprise to find, that the lives of the people were of so little value in Ireland that the Government could give no satisfactory account of the results of the contests in which they were sacrificed.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that the number of killed in the affrays, between the constabulary force armed on one side, and the people also armed on the other, were ascertained by the return of the Coroner, who inquired into the cause of death; but it must be known to every man that no account was taken of the number of wounded. He begged at the same time to express his opinion, that the constabulary force was most efficient as a body, and he believed, most sincerely, that to their good conduct and meritorious exertions, the preservation of the peace of Ireland was mainly to be attributed.Sir H. Hardinge
 rose to ask, whether the hon. member for Middlesex, who generally spoke with great courtesy of public men, intended to revoke the expression which he had used when he insinuated, or rather said, that the noble Duke was at the bottom of the burnings in Kent. He thought that it would be for the interest of the public for the House to come at once to a regular division on the conduct of Ministers, instead of wasting time in a Guerilla warfare on such discussions as the present. Such a division would bring on the tug of war, and the country would then know how far the Ministry was likely to enjoy the confidence of the present Parliament.Mr. Curteis
212 was much surprised, that the hon. member for Waterford, if he felt so strongly averse from the language of the Speech from the Throne, had not recorded that feeling more effectually, by taking the sense of the House on the subject when that Speech was under its consideration the other night, and when he
212Mr. Croker
 said, that his observations applied not to the fact of the hon. Member having spoken against the Address, and seconded the Amendment, of which he was aware, but to the fact that he had not ventured to take the sense of the House on that Amendment.Mr. Croker
 said, it was impossible that any such return could be made. The number of killed might be known, but there were no means of ascertaining the number of wounded.Mr. Doherty
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the more effectual Administration of Justice in Ireland. The object of the Bill would be, to extend to Ireland certain provisions of the Act for the more effectual Administration of Justice in England, which passed in the last Session of Parliament.Mr. Doherty
 thought the present a very inconvenient mode of discussing the Question. He objected to monopolies of all sorts, and he thought the present contract taken out of the common routine of contracts.Mr. Maberly
l., after observing, with respect to the law of settlement, that many cases had occurred at the Quarter Sessions, in which the Judges had decided the law contrary to the spirit in which he was sure that law was enacted, —after citing a case where the hiring of a house for 10l.Mr. Weyland
 said, that he came up to town with a strong disposition to look with favour on the acts of the Government during the present crisis, but the declaration respecting reform had totally changed his opinions. The Duke of Wellington, Prince of Waterloo, had, like his brother Minister, Prince Polignac, issued his Ordinances against Reform, and was determined to abide the issue, in spite of the opinions of the people.Mr. John Wood
215 wished, before the House went into a Committee of Supply, to put a question to the right hon. Secretary of State. Although his Majesty's Speech abstained from all allusion to the topic, the right hon. Gentleman could not deny the existence of the greatest distress throughout the country; a distress, indeed, so deep and extensive, that unless means were taken to mitigate it, the most serious and alarming consequences might ensue. He was anxious to ascertain whether or not it was the right hon. Gentleman's intention to propose the appointment of a Select Committee, to take the national distress into considera-
215Mr. Kenyon
 thought that the system of making retrenchments by turning poor clerks out of office was one of great cruelty.Mr. Leader
 repeated his hope that the hon. Member would, for the future, preserve a greater temperance of language, although he might feel as strongly as he liked.Mr. Beaumont
, although one of the most ardent friends of liberty, felt himself called on to protest against the sentiments of the hon. member for Waterford, and to deprecate the use of expressions which he considered abominable, and language which he must characterise as most offensive. As one of those who had always proved themselves the friends of liberty both in and out of that House, he deprecated the use of such language; and hoped the hon. Member would refrain from using it in future.Mr. Beaumont
 rose to answer the question which the hon. Gentleman had put to him. It was not his intention to propose the appointment of a committee to take into consideration the general distress of the country. As to the specific measures which his Majesty's Ministers intended to adopt, he hoped that their whole policy would show the disposition which they entertained to advance the prosperity of the country; although it could not be expected that he should now enumerate the precise measures that they might take. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that any part of his Majesty's Speech alluded to measures of coercion. What his Majesty stated was, that he would exert all the existing means which the law and the constitution had placed at his disposal.Sir Robert Peel
 said, he required no notice on the subject of such a Motion, as he was at once prepared to give it a decided negative.Sir R. Peel
221220 expressed his surprise, that the hon. member for Middlesex should charge him with want of courtesy, in not answering his question yesterday. What he had understood the hon. Gentleman to say yesterday was, that he would put to him (Sir Robert Peel) this day, a question as to the probability of the occur-
221220Sir Robert Peel
228 repeated his former declaration, that our interference with the Netherlands was not made with a view of exciting, but of preventing, war. His Majesty had declared in his Speech, that he entertained the expectation that he should be able to preserve for his people the blessings of peace; and he had already assured the House—and he would repeat the assurance—that nothing had occurred since the delivery of that Speech which induced him to think that that expectation would be disappointed. In reply to the observations of the hon. member for Worcester, which, he said, proceeded throughout upon the erroneous supposition that he had accused the Gentlemen opposite of throwing firebrands among the people, he should only say, that he had made no such accusation. On a former evening he had used the word "intentionally," where he
228Sir R. Peel
 complained, that the hon. member for Callington had read his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, a most unnecessary and uncalled-for lecture on the exaggerations which were abroad, and of which his hon. friend was perfectly guiltless. He contended that the exaggeration prevalent out of doors was a sufficient justification of any hon. Member, who calmly and dispassionately stated within the House the real grievances of the people. The language which had been used by the hon. member for Middlesex, both on the present and on a former night, was perfectly justifiable in the present state of the country. With respect to reform in Parliament, he must say, that it was resisted only by those who had an interest in maintaining the present abuses. By abuses he did not mean the high and extravagant salaries merely which were paid to some public officers, but the influence and patronage which were in the gift of some of them, and quite as valuable, if not more so, than money. He must also condemn in the strongest terms, the declarations contained in the King's Speech respecting Belgium, and avow his dissatisfaction with the explanations which the right hon. Secretary had that night given respecting what he called the pacific intentions of the British Government.Lord Howick
 observed, that in less than a quarter of an hour it was probable some Minister might be present. When the House met at four o'clock, it had been usual for Ministers not to attend until about five.Mr. Dundas
 said, that he had no doubt some one of his right hon. friends would shortly be in the House, and he really thought that it was due to his Majesty's Government to defer any questions or observations of this nature, until some of his Majesty's Ministers were present to answer them.Mr. Arbuthnot
279 felt compelled to address the House upon this occasion, in consequence of the pointed allusion which had been made to a cheer of his by the right hon. Secretary. He could not conceive how the right hon. Secretary could so misconstrue his cheer as to suppose that it meant an approval of any attack which the ruffian rabble might make upon the person of the Duke of Wellington. He viewed with as much indignation as a man could do the infamous attacks which had recently been made upon his Grace by some of the lowest ruffians in the country. What caused his cheer and astonishment was, that after such an alarming letter as that which appeared in the newspapers that morning—a letter containing a declaration, which he conceived, could only be justified by the discovery of some widespread conspiracy against the Throne—it should turn out, that the main, and indeed the only reason, why the City was disappointed of a visit from its Sovereign, was the unpopularity of the Prime Minister. Was it the intention of the Duke of Wellington, now that he found that he could not raise his own popularity to the same height with that of his Majesty, to bring down his Majesty's popularity to the same level with his own unpopularity? He could not admit that the right hon. Secretary had made out any case sufficient to justify the postponement of his Majesty's visit to the City. He had told the House
279Colonel Davies
283282281 said, that it was impossible for him to remain silent upon this occasion, without disregarding one of the most sacred duties which he owed to his constituents, who had been placed in a most extraordinary situation by the conduct of the Government. We were told that we had a King of the most popular cha-
283282281Mr. Alderman Waithman
285 said, that as member for the City of Westminster, he trusted that he might be allowed to say a few words on the present occasion, promising the House that they should be very few. He had felt it his duty to inquire, so far as his means extended, since the delivery of the Speech from the Throne, and since the declaration which the Prime Minister had made in the other House of Parliament, whether any change had taken place in public opinion respecting the Government or his Majesty. His inquiries on this subject had been neither few nor limited, and the result of those inquiries enabled him to assert with confidence, that there was no disaffection at all among the people. That word either was, or ought to be, always applied with reference to the general Government of the country, and not with regard to the particular Administration of the day. Using the word in this its only proper sense, he repeated, that he might with confidence assert, that towards the august person who filled the Throne, and towards the established Government of the country, as a limited monarchy, no disaffection at all existed among the people. But he should not do his duty if he stopped here: he should be unworthy of the place he filled in that House if he hesitated to speak out on an occasion like the present. Disaffection there was among the people, but it was disaffection towards the Ministry. Among the people there did exist the strongest feeling against the longer continuance of those gentlemen in office, and he must say, he did very much wonder, considering the many hints those gentlemen had received, that they did not find out that there was another alternative open to them besides preventing his Majesty from attending the City festival. This other alternative had been suggested to him by many gentlemen, not only among those with whom he commonly acted, but by gentlemen connected with his Majesty's Government. The alternative to which he alluded was, that the Ministers should have resigned their places. The introduction of party politics, on an occasion like the present, had been deprecated; but the whole question was, whether the Ministers ought not to have considered,—before exciting the consternation which had resulted from that letter of the right hon. Secretary,— whether they could not have prevented all chance of a disturbance, and whether they
285Mr. Hobhouse
WOODTHORPE.""This Court doth hereby take the earliest opportunity of informing their fellow-citizens, that they most unequivocally and decidedly disavow the knowledge of any communication made to the Government of the inability of the magistracy to preserve the peace of the metropolis on the Lord Mayor's day (which they are bound and ready with their lives to maintain on all occasions,) because they are quite satisfied of the complete efficiency of the police, and that the steps taken by the magistracy to increase the civil force were commensurate to the highly important occasion of his Majesty's visit to this great City; and they cannot but lament that any representation should have been made which has had the effect of influencing the postponement of his Majesty's visit to this loyal City of London. (Signed) "287 rose for the purpose of confirming the statement which had been made by the hon. Alderman opposite (Waithman) which was doubtless correct, though the hon. Alderman had mentioned some matters which he (Mr. Alderman Thompson) should not have thought himself justified in introducing here. True it unquestionably was, that only one feeling— a feeling of affection and loyalty to the King—pervaded the whole body of the citizens of London, and, in his own mind, he had no doubt that, from the arrangements which the Magistrates had made, the entertainment to his Majesty would have passed off without any breach of the peace. Every measure for the preservation of the peace had been taken, and no less than 1,600 special constables had been appointed in addition to the ordinary police force of the City. Further than this, a body of respectable
WOODTHORPE.""This Court doth hereby take the earliest opportunity of informing their fellow-citizens, that they most unequivocally and decidedly disavow the knowledge of any communication made to the Government of the inability of the magistracy to preserve the peace of the metropolis on the Lord Mayor's day (which they are bound and ready with their lives to maintain on all occasions,) because they are quite satisfied of the complete efficiency of the police, and that the steps taken by the magistracy to increase the civil force were commensurate to the highly important occasion of his Majesty's visit to this great City; and they cannot but lament that any representation should have been made which has had the effect of influencing the postponement of his Majesty's visit to this loyal City of London. (Signed) "287Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that he had not cast any responsibility upon the right hon. Secretary. In justice to the right hon. Secretary, to the Magistrates of the City of London, and for the satisfaction of the House, he felt himself called upon to state, that those two individuals, whom the right hon. Secretary had referred to, had not only no authority to make any such communication to the Government from the Corporation, but that the fact of their having made that communication was totally unknown to the Magistrates of the City.Mr. Alderman Thompson
289Cries of "Oh! oh!" and much laughter.(Signed) "SWING.""Sir; If you let or illuminate any part of your house on the 9th, your life will be in peril. There is at present too many Englishmen starving to let money be spent so. said, that he begged to call the attention of the House to a letter which had been received by a respectable tradesman, and of which he had obtained a copy. It ran thus:—
289Cries of "Oh! oh!" and much laughter.(Signed) "SWING.""Sir; If you let or illuminate any part of your house on the 9th, your life will be in peril. There is at present too many Englishmen starving to let money be spent so.Mr. Hughes Hughes
 said, it was lamentable to see the situation into which the metropolis had been plunged in the short space of nine days. He maintained, that the personal popularity of the Sovereign was undiminished, but he contended that it was a lamentable thing that, in consequence of the presence in his Majesty's Council of one single individual this metropolis had been put in imminent danger; for he understood that the presence of the noble Duke at the head of the Government was one of the main causes of the alarm. He trusted, that the House of Commons would feel it their duty immediately to lay an Address before his Majesty, respectfully soliciting him to dismiss the noble Duke and his colleagues from his councils; for the whole population in this City, and in the country, was against them. It was to him (Mr. Hume) a matter of astonishment how any man in that House could sit still, and not feel it his duty to move an Address for the dismissal from his Majesty's councils of those evil counsellors whose conduct had excited so much alarm and irritation. He was confident that to-morrow would be characterized in the City by tranquillity and peace. If the inhabitants of this metropolis valued their rights as Englishmen, and if they wished to see the Duke of Wellington removed from office, they would to-morrow exhibit the most orderly and peaceable demeanor.Mr. Hume
290 agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that if his Majesty's Ministers deserved to be dismissed from office, it was the duty of those hon. Members in that House who entertained that opinion to move an Address for their removal. They only deserved to remain in office as long as they retained the confidence of Parliament; and if they had lost that confidence, it was only for Parliament to pronounce its
290The Chancellor of the Exchequer
293292291 was very unwilling to come forward at a moment of very great excitement, when more mischief might be done by a Member's expressing his sentiments than by his retaining them to himself. He had, therefore, determined to forbear from expressing his sentiments, strong as they might be, on this occasion; but he had been induced to depart from that determination in consequence of the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. That right hon. gentleman had intimated, that if that House should come to a decision that the public interests no longer demanded the services of himself and his colleagues, they would receive that decision with satisfaction. Now, if he (Sir James Graham) did not greatly misunderstand the feeling of the country, that feeling had — particularly within the last few days, in consequence of the declaration of the noble Duke (Wellington) in another place, and of the
293292291Sir J. Graham
 said, that at this moment the people were most anxious to ascertain the amount of the danger which the letter of the right hon. Baronet anticipated that they would have had to encounter if his Majesty had persevered in his determination to dine in the city to-morrow. It appeared from what had been disclosed in the course of the present discussion, that the danger would have been much less than had been supposed. The line of conduct adopted by his Majesty's Ministers had been founded upon the busy, and, he must say, the unauthorized communications of two Aldermen,—communications which had been repudiated by the Aldermen who represented the City of London in that House. He was surprised that no inquiry had been made by the Government in the first place, as to the authenticity of the information communicated by the Lord Mayor elect. It appeared to him that in this instance the Government had committed a great error by acting on the incorrect information communicated by two busy, and, as it now appeared, unauthorized Aldermen.Mr. Slaney
 requested, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would consider, that there were many interests involved in the discussion: that it was not a question between him and the Colonial Secretary, and therefore it was necessary for him to come to a specific resolution and give a specific notice.Mr. Keith Douglas
 was most willing to take any suggestion from such a quarter, but the question was one of extreme importance; indeed with the exception of parliamentary reform, there was no question with regard to which the country was so desirous that the Parliament should at once come to a decision, and that they should pledge themselves in no manner whatever, to interfere in the affairs of foreign governments.Mr. Hobhouse
299de facto298 declared it was his determination not to vote as a Member of Parliament a shilling to the Crown, if it was to be employed in interfering in the concerns of foreign States. He should probably fix his motion for Friday-week. He wished to take that opportunity to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he
299de facto298Mr. Hobhouse
310 considered, that every regulation tending to extend the intercourse between the two nations, Great Britain and the United States, must give mutual confidence to the merchants of both. Gentlemen must be aware, that in this attempt to protect the peculiar interests of our North-American colonies, that protection must be purchased at the expense of other parts of the British empire. In consequence of the distressed condition of the West-Indian interest for some time past, the Board of Trade had investigated fully all the burthens borne by these
310Mr. Keith Douglas
 thought, that he had explained already that the West-Indian colonies would continue to receive without duty what they now received without paying a duty. The condition of the West-Indies must, at all events, be improved; and he did not conceive that the improvement would be effected at the expense of the North-American colonies. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman opposite in his interpretation of the language of Mr. Canning. Having entered into treaties with the Spanish settlements in America, and with other countries, and when we found that the United States of America (the only country which was excluded from participation in the commerce with our colonies) were coming round, it did seem advisable to admit the United States to that trade on the same conditions on which it was enjoyed by other nations. The only question then to be considered was, whether the duties described in the schedule submitted to the House were sufficient for the protection of our colonial interests. If they were sufficient, the argument of the hon. Gentleman opposite fell to the ground. The principle on which they were founded was that of protection. The hon. member for Middlesex had said, that the proposed duties were too high; so that the whole question was now only one of degree.Mr. Herries
 did not wish to enter then into details, but he objected, for one thing, to the increase of duty on shingles.Mr. Keith Douglas
312311 said, that the Ministers had on the present occasion furnished an example of the folly of bringing forward a plan for the purpose of pleasing every body. They had succeeded in pleasing nobody. The West-Indians were dissatisfied, and the North-Americans were dissatisfied, and he was dissatisfied. The Government professed to act on the principle of free-trade; but the principle acted upon, in the practice, seemed to him to be that of making the colonies pay as dearly as possible for what they consumed. When a similar measure to that now before the
312311Mr. Hume
314313 observed, that the subject before the House involved two questions—the first was, the great principle upon which the measure rested; the second was, what might be called its details, or rather the means by which the object in view was to be carried into effect. To the latter of these divisions he would not address himself; as to the former he had to observe, that in any discussion respecting it, he wished to look upon it as a great national and imperial question, not having for its object to benefit or injure any particular class, neither in our North-American nor our West-India colonies. They were not, as he conceived, then to enter upon a discussion of the principle established by the Act of 1822, and recognized by that of 1825 —recognized upon an enlarged basis. Against the re-opening of any such question, he begged most distinctly to enter his protest. It was not to be made a question then, or at any time, whether or not their colonies were to be preserved in a flourishing condition, or whether means were to be taken by the Government of Great Britain for preserving relations of peace and amity with a great commercial country, allied to us by birth, and that ought ever to be united by the remembrance of a kindred origin; it was not to be then made a question whether we ought or ought not to cultivate friendly intercourse with a great nation, that was expanding itself over the vast continent
314313Mr. Charles Grant
 said, it was quite a mistake to suppose that the present measure was anything in the nature of a boon; for it was not to be forgotten that the West Indies now derived a great portion of their staves and lumber from the United States, through the neutral island of St. Thomas. The consequence of the restrictions, however, had been, that the Americans would not take our rum and sugar, but required to be paid in hard cash. They had, since the restriction, established distilleries of their own, and no longer took the produce of the West-India islands. The measure was in no respect either a partial or a general concession; and to the West-India islands was merely equitable.Mr. Bernal
315 explained, that he never asserted that it was a boon. The present measure arose out of a sincere desire on the part of his Majesty's Government to close the negotiation with the United States upon the broad principles of justice. It was never asserted, for a moment, that
315Mr. Herries
ad valorem put it to the House whether 100 per cent ad valoremMr. Warburton
 said, the Committee to inquire into the affairs of Canada would probably be revived, which would answer all useful purposes.Mr. Herries
316 hoped some improvement would be effected in the mode of appoint-
316Mr. Rice
304d.s.s.303302301300 moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Act regulating the Intercourse between the West-Indian Islands and the United States of America, and the House having resolved itself into a Committee, he went on to say, that his object was, to make some changes in the Act regulating the commercial intercourse between the West-Indian possessions of this country, and the United States, with a view to establish a permanent system applicable to that part of our trade. The Act he proposed to amend was that passed in the year 1825, under the auspices of the late Mr. Huskisson; and his Amendments would relate to the schedule of protecting duties
304d.s.s.303302301300Mr. Herries
286 could not help breaking through the rooted disinclination he had to address the House, and giving vent to the expression of the grief, the disappointment, and the unmeasured indignation he felt at this transaction. When he recollected that the King of England,—his King, to whom he owed his allegiance, and to whom he was ready, with his allegiance, to offer his heart and love,—a King the most popular, and justly the most popular, that had ever ascended the Throne, and who might have wandered from Wapping to St. James's unattended by a single soldier or policeman,—when he recollected that such a King should have had for Ministers men who had put such a Speech into his mouth, that they seemed determined to make him the offensive organ of unpopular sentiments,—he could not refrain from giving expression to his feelings. But for this conduct on the part of the Ministers, there would
286Mr. Brownlow
294 remarked, that much had been said in the course of the present debate, upon what was termed the just unpopularity of the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Administration; but the services which that illustrious individual had performed for this country and for Europe, in a military point of
294Sir C. Forbes
 rose to assure the right hon. Secretary, that in proposing the very question which had just been put to him by the noble member for Northamptonshire, to another Minister, before he (Sir R. Peel) entered the House, he had not done so from any want of courtesy to the right hon. Secretary. A sense of what was due to his King, his constituents, and his country, had urged him to press for the earliest intelligence on this most important subject.Colonel Sibthorp
 was of the same opinion as that which had just been expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He regretted that absence, as he had an important question to put to his Majesty's Ministers with respect to the letter which had been published from the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the Lord Mayor of London, by which it appeared, that our illustrious Sovereign, who dwelt in the hearts and affections of his people, had been advised by his Ministers to decline visiting the City, where he would have been greeted by his faithful subjects with the warmest welcome, and where blessings would have been showered upon his head. He perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was too frequently the practice that no Minister of the Crown was present in that House, to hear the petitions presented by hon. Members, or to answer any question which it might be expedient to put.Colonel Sibthorp
 took the opportunity of a petition being presented, to remonstrate (it being then above half-past three o'clock) against the absence of all the Ministers. The arrangement which had recently been made for the purpose of expediting the public business would be worse than use- less, if from three to five o'clock the House were to receive petitions, and per- haps to enter into discussions on the Abolition of Slavery, Parliamentary Reform, and other important questions, without the presence of one of his Majesty's Ministers. Such a proceeding would be a mockery; and he trusted, therefore, that the absence of all the Ministers at that hour was a mere oversight.Mr. Brougham
266 replied, that he was loath to say anything against any man in
266Mr. Brougham
 perfectly agreed with the hon. Gentleman. His observations had been extorted from him by the hon. Baronet's having alluded to the present dreadful state of things; a state which appeared to him to be applicable only to the Ministers personally.Mr. Brougham
278277276275 assured the right hon. Secretary that he should hear no taunt from him on this painful occasion. But, though he gave the right hon. Secretary that assurance, he nevertheless felt it necessary to return his thanks to his noble friend near him for having elicited from the right hon. Secretary the statement which he had just made. He could assure the right hon. Secretary, that the few words which he was going to address to the House were intended to add to the effect which his speech would have in quieting the alarm, which he would not say had been excited without any cause, but which he thought had been excited without sufficient cause, in this great metropolis. Though it was not strictly right for him to address the Chair at present, there being no question regularly before it, still he trusted that a consideration of the public convenience, and of the peace and tranquillity of this great metropolis, and he might even say of the country, would be admitted by the Speaker as a sufficient excuse for his saying a few words, although irregularly, to the House. He felt exceedingly sorrowful that a festival, by which the good City of London had set such store, should not be holden with all that pomp and pride of circumstance which, of old custom, belonged to it, and with that which, on this occasion, gave to it its chief interest,—he meant the presence of the Royal Family. That was
278277276275Mr. Brougham
 recommended the postponement to the Friday following.Mr. Brougham
 said, that he should be down early to-morrow, and would endeavour to arrange the matter with Sir G. Murray.Mr. Brougham
297 said, that in consequence of a notice of a Motion which had been
297Mr. Brougham
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for improving the Administration of Justice in Ireland. The Bill would relate chiefly to the office of Sheriff: it was one which had been introduced in the last Parliament, and which, owing to the abrupt manner in which the Session terminated, was dropped. The Bill which he intended to introduce would differ only in merely technical matters, and when it came to be printed, hon. Members would see, that the Bill was calculated to promote the object proposed; namely, an improvement in the Administration of Justice in Ireland, and for the better regulation of the office of Sheriff in Ireland.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that though there might be abuses in towns corporate, yet the Report did not allude to that subject.Sir H. Hardinge
296295 participated entirely in the sentiments of disgust which had been expressed by the hon. member for Cumberland, at the personal attacks which had been made upon one of the greatest men of the day, whose extraordinary military services in the cause of the country ought to shield him against personal attacks on account of political opinion. Descending from such a distinguished character to men of far humbler station in the country, he was desirous to bear his testimony against those brutal and savage outrages which had been committed against a body of men who had
296295Mr. Denman
 said, it ought to be recollected that business of the greatest importance must be pressing on the minds and attention of his Majesty's Ministers at the present moment. He thought they were entitled to the credit of some motive of that kind for their absence. He had no connection with his Majesty's Ministers; but some consideration, in the present dreadful state of things, was due to them.Sir Charles Burrell
 having entered the House,Sir R. Peel
274273272"Liberty or Death! Englishmen! Britons!! and honest men!!! The time has at length arrived—all London meets on Tuesday — come armed. We assure you from ocular demonstration, that 6,000 cutlasses have been removed from the Tower, for the immediate use of Peel's Bloody Gang—remember the cursed Speech from the Throne!!—These damned Police are now to be armed. Englishmen, will you put up with this.""To arms, to arms!—Liberty or Death! London meets on Tuesday next, an opportunity not to be lost for revenging the wrongs we have suffered so long; come ARMED, be firm, and victory must be ours!!! "AN ENGLISHMAN"271"JOHN KEY, Lord Mayor elect."270"While all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty on the occasion, from what I learn it is the intention of some of the desperate characters above alluded to, to take the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's per-
270This was an allusion to Colonel Davies, whose cheer was remarkably loud.Very loud cheering, mingled with considerable laughter, from the Opposition benches"Although the feelings of all the respectable citizens of London are decidedly loyal, yet it cannot but be known there are, both in London as well as the country, a set of desperate and abandoned characters, who are anxious to avail themselves of any circumstance to create tumult and confusion. While all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty an the occasion, from what I learn it is the intention of some of the desperate characters above alluded to, to lake the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's person—"My Lord Duke,—From the situation of Lord Mayor, to which I have been elected, numberless communications are made to me, both personally and by letter, in reference to the 9th, and it is on that account I take the liberty of addressing your Grace.269268 said, that however anxious he might be fully to answer the question which had been put to him by the noble Lord, and to give every information on the subject referred to which it was in his power to give, he was sure the noble Lord would not expect from him— he was sure the House would not expect from him—any declaration or statement that might be prejudicial to, or in any way interfere with, the course of the public service. The letter which had appeared in all the newspapers of the day, addressed to the Lord Mayor, was authentic, and the signature to that letter was his. That letter conveyed the deliberate opinion of his Majesty's confidential servants, that they had felt it to be their duty to advise his Majesty to postpone the visit which their Majesties intended to pay to the City of London on Tuesday next. The opinion was founded on the firm belief entertained by his Majesty's Government, that a collision of a very serious nature might take place in the attempt to maintain the public peace. Such a collision was at all times to be avoided; but peculiarly so on an occasion such as that in question. If ever an anxiety could be justly entertained to avoid such a collision, it must be at a time when an immense concourse of innocent and unsuspecting persons were assembled, at night, in the streets of the metropolis, to witness a great public festival. When it was considered that such an evil might be avoided, since there was no obligation that the festival in question must take place, and when to that was added the fact, that information had been received of an intention on the part of evil-disposed persons to make that festival a scene of tumult, and probably of bloodshed, he thought no man would deny that it was the duty of his Majesty's Ministers to give his Majesty the advice which they had given. It was his firm belief, while he was ready to do the most ample justice to the loyalty of the people of London, while he was convinced of the warmth of
274273272"Liberty or Death! Englishmen! Britons!! and honest men!!! The time has at length arrived—all London meets on Tuesday — come armed. We assure you from ocular demonstration, that 6,000 cutlasses have been removed from the Tower, for the immediate use of Peel's Bloody Gang—remember the cursed Speech from the Throne!!—These damned Police are now to be armed. Englishmen, will you put up with this.""To arms, to arms!—Liberty or Death! London meets on Tuesday next, an opportunity not to be lost for revenging the wrongs we have suffered so long; come ARMED, be firm, and victory must be ours!!! "AN ENGLISHMAN"271"JOHN KEY, Lord Mayor elect."270"While all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty on the occasion, from what I learn it is the intention of some of the desperate characters above alluded to, to take the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's per-
270This was an allusion to Colonel Davies, whose cheer was remarkably loud.Very loud cheering, mingled with considerable laughter, from the Opposition benches"Although the feelings of all the respectable citizens of London are decidedly loyal, yet it cannot but be known there are, both in London as well as the country, a set of desperate and abandoned characters, who are anxious to avail themselves of any circumstance to create tumult and confusion. While all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty an the occasion, from what I learn it is the intention of some of the desperate characters above alluded to, to lake the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's person—"My Lord Duke,—From the situation of Lord Mayor, to which I have been elected, numberless communications are made to me, both personally and by letter, in reference to the 9th, and it is on that account I take the liberty of addressing your Grace.269268Sir Robert Peel
280 said, that however tempting the occasion might be, he would not enter into any of those questions of party-feeling which the hon. and learned Gentleman had raised in the course of his speech. His object was, to co-operate with the hon. and learned Gentleman in his endeavour to calm the public feeling. He would therefore endeavour to abstain from replying to the sarcasms into which the hon. and learned Gentleman had so naturally fallen. He cordially admitted the hon. and learned Gentleman's intentions; and he wished to state, in the most clear and positive terms, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had put a correct construction upon his language. "I believe with him," said Sir Robert Peel, "that the King and Queen might safely go to Guildhall to-morrow without any other inconvenience, save that arising from the exuberant loyalty of the people. I believe with him, that from one part of the procession to the other, there would have been nothing but one universal demonstration of loyalty and affection to their Majesties. I believe that every man possessed of property in the metropolis would have been ready to expose himself to any danger for its protection, and for the protection of the public peace. I know that among those who had confederated for that purpose were 1,400 or 1,500 persons connected with the first houses in London. So far am I from wishing to have it inferred that there was any disloyalty among the citizens of London, that I now declare my sincere conviction to be, that never was there an occasion on which greater attachment to the King, and a stronger disposition to maintain the public peace, were displayed. Still let the House reflect on the condition in which the metropolis would have been placed. All the firemen would have been engaged as guardians of the public peace. To maintain order in the line of procession all the ordinary police of London must have been on duty by as early an hour as nine o'clock in the morning. With all the facts which came to the knowledge of the Government, I
280Sir Robert Peel
 said, it had been assumed that the communication of the Lord Mayor elect had been the only one that had been received by his Majesty's Government, and the hon. Member opposite had said that his Majesty's Government should have ascertained the grounds upon which that communication was made. An interview had taken place between himself and the Lord Mayor elect after the receipt of that communication, and if the information which had reached his Majesty's Government on the subject had been solely derived from him, Ministers would certainly have paused before they proceeded to act upon it; but the information received from the Lord Mayor elect had been confirmed by communications from at least twenty other different quarters. He thought that the Lord Mayor elect had acted perfectly right, and he must repeat that Ministers had not come to any resolution till after an interview had been had with the Lord Mayor subsequent to the receipt of his communication. He must also take that opportunity of saying, that he could never forget the honourable and candid conduct of the learned Gentleman opposite, (Mr. Denman) that evening; which did not, however, surprise him (Sir R. Peel), knowing as he did in common with every other person the high and honourable character of that learned Gentleman. He was gratified but not astonished at hearing the sentiments which that learned Gentleman expressed respecting the attacks upon the Duke of Wellington, as well as the brutal attacks made upon humbler but very useful individuals. They were sentiments which might draw down upon him some unpopularity —he spoke of unpopularity amongst the low and the vulgar; but they were the sentiments of all respectable and good citizens in the state.Sir R. Peel
 said, he could not, of course, know what authority those two gentlemen had, but they certainly represented themselves to him as authorized to make the communication he had mentioned. One of them being the Lord Mayor elect, and the other acting for the late Lord Mayor, it never occurred to him to question them as to their authority, and certainly the offices they filled seemed to point them out as very fit persons to make such a communication, for to them, one might naturally suppose would be left the arrangements for the preservation of the public peace.Sir R. Peel
288 said, he could only state, that on Saturday two Aldermen came to him, as from the City authorities, one of whom was the Lord Mayor elect, and the other a gentleman who said, he
288Sir Robert Peel
 was sure his right hon. friend had no intention to be discourteous to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he could state that his right hon. friend had intimated to him before the meeting of Parliament, his intention to bring the subject under the notice of the House.Sir R. Peel
 said, the hon. Member in postponing his Motion, had taken occasion to make a considerable portion of his speech. He wondered why the hon. Member had assumed that it was intended, on the part of the Ministers parties to the conference, to dictate to the Belgians as to what form of government they should select, or out of what family they should choose a sovereign. The first step which had been taken on the part of the conference, and which he was confident would meet with the approbation of the House and the country, was to endeavour, but not by dictation, to procure on both sides a cessation of hostilities. With respect to Prince Talleyrand, he did not know the motives which the hon. Member had for cautioning Government against him. He was accredited here by the King of the French, as the representative of his government; as such he had been received, and he (Sir Robert Peel) must say, in reference to that eminent individual, that there was not the slightest want of confidence in, or attention towards him, on the part of his Majesty's Government.Sir R. Peel
309308307306305 would not trouble the Committee with any remark on the schedule proposed for the sanction of the Committee by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. But with respect to the hon. Gentleman's assertion, that all parties interested in the commercial prosperity of England, would receive with satisfaction the announcement of the new footing on which the intercourse of our colonies in the West Indies with the United States of America has been placed, he (Mr. R.) could not help observing, that there was one party deeply interested in the question,
309308307306305Mr. George Robinson
 suggested, as it was most important that the country should be made acquainted with the plan of the Government with regard to the Civil List, that Mr. Hobhouse should postpone his motion for an Address relative to the interference of this country in the affairs of Belgium.Lord Althorp
267 said, observing the right hon. Baronet in his place, he wished to ask him for some explanation of one of the most extraordinary and alarming events that he had ever known in the course of his public experience. He was desirous to know, what could have induced his Majesty's Ministers to expose his Majesty to the great unpopularity which might follow from his disappointing the expectations of thousands of his faithful subjects, by advising his Majesty to decline fulfilling the promise he had made to dine with the Lord Mayor to-morrow? It was not in London alone that the most serious effects would result from this affair. The alarm which the intelligence of it would create, from one end of the kingdom to the other,
267Lord Althorp
 presented a petition from Waterford for a repeal of the Legislative Union with Ireland. The hon. Member supported the prayer of the petition.Mr. O'Connell
 wished to know from the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether it was his intention to bring the question to which the petition referred substantively before the House, so as to admit of a fair and full discussion, and thus give hon. Members an opportunity of expressing their sense of its merits? He thought this would be the fair and straight forward course for the hon. and learned Gentleman to pursue, instead of habitually indulging in irregular and vapid observations on the presentation of petitions.Mr. Doherty
 did not intend to bring forward a specific motion for the repeal of the Union till the number of petitions in its favour should show that the measure was one not emanating from individuals, but from the majority of the people of Ireland. He would take the opportunity of assuring his excellent friend, the member for Middlesex, that the repeal of the Union was no mere whim of his, but the ardent desire of 99 persons out of every 100 in Ireland.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that as the hon. and learned Gentleman had shrunk from affording the House a tangible opportunity of expressing a decisive opinion on the subject, he would in future abstain from any remarks relative to the repeal of the Union, on the occasion of petitions being presented. He recommended other hon. Members to pursue the same course, and await the opportunity, if ever it presented itself, of the hon. and learned Gentleman's bringing forward the question so as to admit the sense of the House being taken upon it.Mr. Doherty
 protested against the principle just laid down by the Solicitor-General for Ireland, that Members should abstain from addressing observations to the House when presenting petitions.Mr. Tennyson
 earnestly hoped a day would be afforded for the full discussion of the subject; for he was sure that the House would be unanimous against the present project of the hon. and learned member for Waterford. Nothing could be more detrimental to the peace and the prosperity of Ireland than agitating this question.Mr. Brownlow
 could assure the House, that the great majority of his respectable and enlightened constituents—the inhabitants of the city of Dublin—were against the scheme of a repeal of the Leglislative Union with Ireland.Mr. Shaw
 had no other object in view in agitating the question of a local Parliament than to prevent the forcible separation of Ireland from England, and to add to the benefits of their union. The Union had long been an object of hatred to the people of Ireland. The Chief-Justice of the King's-bench in Ireland declared, that the Act of Union was a nullity, for the Parliament had no authority to pass it. The Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas, Ireland, Lord Plunkett, declared, that like Hannibal, he would bring his sons to the altar, and make them swear perpetual hostility to the measure. The great majority of the Irish people now called for its repeal, and he could assure his hon. friend (Mr. Shaw) that he was mistaken as to the opinions of his own constituents. The declaration against the repeal, got up in Dublin, had not been signed by more than a score persons.Mr. O' Connell
320 maintained, that notwithstanding the perverse obstinacy with which the hon. and learned member for Waterford agitated the question of a repeal of the Union out of doors, for the sake of mob-popularity, he would not dare to bring it forward substantively before the House, so as to bring the favour in which it was regarded by hon. Members, of every shade and party, to a tangible and satisfactory test. It might answer the hon. and learned Gentleman's purposes, as the organ of the mob of Ireland, to make irregular speeches on the subject at dinners and on presenting petitions, but it would not so well suit his views to enable the public to know that in that. House he could not influence a single Member to vote or speak on his side of the question. The hon. and learned Gentleman professed, then, that his object was, to strengthen the Union between the two
320Mr. G. Dawson
321 rose to protest against the extraordinary language which had been employed by the hon. Member who had just sat down. If the time of the House were to be thus uselessly taken up in stating objections to the conduct of hon. Members out of the House, there would be no end to the angry discussions which would inevitably arise out of such a practice. What right had the hon. Member to accuse his hon. and learned friend, the member for Waterford, of being an agitator in Ireland? that was not the question be-
321Mr. Hume
322 said, that he rose for the express purpose of denying the statement which had just been offered to the House by the hon. and learned member for Waterford. He had the honour of representing a constituency as numerous, as loyal, and as respectable, as that of the hon. and learned member himself. And he also appeared in the House quite as independent as the hon. and learned Member. The present question was neither a Whig nor a Tory question,—neither a Ministerial nor an Opposition question. Every man could, therefore, discuss it without the slightest reference to party feelings. He could affirm, that not merely nineteen out of every twenty, but ninety-nine out of every hundred persons among his constituents were opposed, not only to the repeal of the Union, but also to the very agitation of such a question. That was the opinion of all the people throughout Ulster. He wished to tell the English Members distinctly, that 99 out of every 100 persons in Ulster were opposed to the very agitation of the question for the repeal of the Union. In the face of the assertions of the hon. and learned member for Waterford, he declared, that the mere agitation of it had produced great mischief in Ireland. Let the hon. and
322Sir Robert Bateson
323 said, that the hon. and learned member for Waterford had represented
323Mr. Shaw
 wished to give the House some information respecting the opinion which was prevalent in Ireland as to the repeal of the Union. There was a prevailing sentiment in Ireland to make the question of the repeal of the Union a question of agitation in that country, in the hope of gaining thereby some measures favourable to its interests. Many persons, who would shrink from the task of agitating that question for its own merits, were prepared to agitate it as a mode of accomplishing other objects of importance to Ireland. It might be true that, before the Union, there were forty tax-gatherers in Ireland where there was only one tax-gatherer now; but then that tax-gatherer was an Irishman. Every Irishman had since been removed from office, on pretence of assimilating the mode of keeping accounts in the two countries; and now tax-gatherers, and all other public officers, were Englishmen. This circumstance produced and fostered in the breasts of Irishmen a feeling of hostility against England, which they gratified by agitating the repeal of the Union.Captain O'Grady
conacre,328Immense cheering followed this declaration said, that the hon. and learned member for Waterford had made a statement regarding the conduct of Earl Fitzwilliam, which rendered it necessary for him to say a few words in contradiction of it. In order to give full effect to that contradiction, he felt himself called upon to lay certain details before the House, not merely by the respect which every man of proper feeling must entertain for so venerable a character as Earl Fitzwilliam, but also by the special request of his noble: friend, Lord Milton, who was prevented by a severe domestic calamity from attending in his place. He would state to the House all that Earl Fitzwilliam and Lord Milton knew and believed upon the subject, derived as their knowledge and belief were from agents whom they had sent to acquire information concerning it. That information enabled him to contradict the hon. and learned Member's assertion, that 800 persons had been ejected from Earl Fitz-william's estate, as completely as Mr. Challoner had already contradicted his assertion about 800 families. [conacre,328Immense cheering followed this declarationLord Althorp
 said, that the documents with which he had been furnished, made a very different impression upon his mind from that which had been made upon the mind of the noble Lord by the information furnished to him by Earl Fitzwilliam. He could not lay the documents which had been sent to him on the Table of the House; but he was ready to submit them at any moment to the inspection of the noble Lord. In conclusion, he repeated, that he had not, when he mentioned the fact, made any imputation against either Earl Fitzwilliam, Lord Milton, or their agent, Mr. Challoner.Mr. O'Connell
330Loud cheering, and cries of "Order," from the Chair329 said, that he did not intend to indulge the House, upon this occasion, by entering upon that kind of personal altercation which the hon. and learned member for Waterford had introduced into this discussion. Whatever
330Loud cheering, and cries of "Order," from the Chair329Mr. G. Dawson
 was understood to bear his testimony to the kind and paternal feelings of Earl Fitzwilliam to his tenantry in Ireland, and to the exemplary manner in which Mr. Challoner, as his Lordship's agent, watched over and promoted their local interests. He believed that, in consequence of a provision in the Subletting Act,—which he should be most glad to see entirely repealed,—it was necessary to give notices to quit to all persons on a farm, when a new lease of it was granted. Thus it might happen that notices to quit might be served on many families residing on Mr. Singe's farm, whom there was no intention of removing from their tenements. He had passed some days at that gentleman's house, and he must say that he never saw a more happy and contented peasantry than the 300 persons who were said to have been ejected from his farm.Mr. Grattan
 said, that he, too, had been desired to offer a few words to the House in contradiction of another statement of the hon. and learned member for Waterford. Archdeacon Trench had commissioned him to inform the House, that the hon. and learned Member had been guilty of a most gross exaggeration when he stated that Lord Rathdrum had served notices to quit upon 400 or 500 individuals on his estates. Instead of 400 or 500 notices, he had only served four, or at most five, notices upon his tenants; and during the last three years only ten persons had been discharged from his property.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that with regard to Lord Rathdrum, he had never mentioned the number of notices which he had served upon his tenantry. He had not specified any number. He was informed, however, that those persons were ejected because they were not of the same religious persuasion with their landlord.Mr. O'Connell
:—Archdeacon Trench has authorised me to contradict that statement likewise.Sir H. Hardinge
:—It can, however, be proved.Mr. O'Connell
 rose to reply—but the Speaker decided that he had no right to reply.Mr. O'Connel
 concurred in the view which the noble Lord had taken, and hoped the Government would attend to his recommendation. He was convinced, from long acquaintance with the subject, that unless the Government were speedily to take it up, the most disastrous consequences would ensue.Mr. Slaney
 supported the Motion and offered to the hon. and learned Solicitor General his humble praise for his great and continued exertion in bringing forward so many useful measures.Mr. Hughes Hughes
345l. said, that the hon. and learned Solicitor General would add to his high character by the measure which he now proposed. The first part of that measure related to the sale of lands under the Statute of Frauds. To that he had no objection, but he much wished, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would allow the subject of wills to remain untouched, for that was at present under the consideration of the commission of which he had the honour to be a Member. The law relating to wills was certainly in a most unsettled and barbarous state. Three witnesses were now required to authenticate a will, which was to pass a quarter of an acre of land, if it happened to be freehold; while property to the amount of 20,000345l.Mr. Campbell
 was happy to hear so many reformers on every side of the House; and since the hon. and learned Gentleman had thus frankly stated his opinion on the subject of adverse possessions, perhaps it might be allowable to ask him whether the proposal as to twenty years adverse possession giving title was to be applicable to church property? He asked the question because he thought the time was come when church property ought to be put on the same footing as other property?Mr. Hume
 thought that, in cases of church property, this rule ought to be applicable so far as possible. That at least was his private opinion. He had devoted a great part of the late vacation to framing such a law. That law must be framed differently from laws relating to other property, for church property was held upon so many and such various tenures. It was his wish that the church should preserve all its present possessions, but that the litigations now daily arising with respect to the tithes should be at an end. That would be beneficial to the church, and, as a friend of the church, he should recommend it.Mr. Campbell
hear, hear!346 regretted, that the question as to Church property had been put to his hon. and learned friend, as that matter was not yet in a state to be presented to the public. As to the other questions now under the consideration of the House, there was but one opinion; but the question was as to the time at which the limitation was to take effect? He was
hear, hear!346The Solicitor General
 complained that the Officers of the Army were too numerous. It might be supposed that the numbers of the officers were limited by the numbers of the Army. It was no such thing. Two or three years ago the Commander-in-chief had made a supernumerary corps of officers, and the consequence of this would be, that our pension-list would shortly be much increased. He wished to know the number of unattached officers from December, 1828, to June, 1830, and he-moved for a Return to that effect.Mr. Hume
bonâ fide,342341340339 moved for leave to bring in a bill to restore and amend
bonâ fide,342341340339The Solicitor General
 then moved for Returns of Officers promoted since the Accession of his present Majesty, and for an account of the additional expense thus created. He knew that it had been the custom to make promotions on the accession of a new King, but the time had gone by when we could afford such an unnecessary increase of our expenditure.Mr. Hume
 also moved for Returns of the Half-pay of the regular Troops, and of the Half-pay of the Militia. It had been said, that the half-pay was retained in this manner, as a security for the future services of the officers who retained it. That, however, was not the case; for when he, on a former occasion, moved for a Return of the Officers who were receiving half-pay, and who were acting as clergymen in the country, it was said there were none who were so acting; but some time afterwards it was discovered that about forty persons in holy orders were receiving half-pay.Mr. Hume
 moved the second reading of the Sussex Jury Bill.Mr. W. Burrell
348 rose to oppose the Bill, and said, he should take the sense of the House upon it. If carried into effect it would produce a most important alteration in the Jury-law, as established by the bill of 1826. By that law the number of Special Jury was to be reduced by chance. The present Bill proposed to effect a division of the county of Sussex into the two districts of Horsham and Lewes; and create one list for one of these divisions, and another for the remaining one. He was opposed to such a division, and thought that the law ought to be uniform. It was said that this Bill was introduced on account of the inconvenient distance of
348Mr. Campbell
 seconded the Amendment. The Bill by being limited to special juries, made, in fact, one law for the rich and another for the poor. Other counties needed as much such a bill as Sussex, and if the principle were good, the Bill ought to be extended to them, not confined to Sussex.Mr. Hughes Hughes
 contended, that juries in the western division of the county would be just as impartial as juries from the county generally. If any suspicion arose, it was well known that in cases of special juries the parties to the action might strike off whom they pleased. As far as common juries were concerned, it was already customary to take them from the immediate neighbourhood of the Assize town.Mr. W. Burrell
349 referred to one county of Ireland which was similarly circumstanced to Sussex, and expressed his hope that the principle of the Bill would be extended to the sister kingdom. He repelled the objection taken to narrow and local jurisdictions,
349Mr. O'Connell
 thought the Bill was calculated to be of use to all parties. The hon. and learned Member who opposed the Bill was mistaken in his view, for experience had informed all Magistrates that jurors might be taken from a limited neighbourhood without the risk of injustice. He felt grateful to the member for Waterford for the disinterested support he had given to this English Bill, and he hoped when he brought forward any local measure for Ireland, that he would receive the same assistance from English Members.Sir Edward Knatchbull
 highly approved of the Bill, and thought its imperfections might be remedied in a committee.Sir C. Burrell
 thought the principle of the Bill so good that he would have it extended to other counties of England, requiring the same change; and he particularly instanced Lancashire, where the Assizes were held in a remote corner of the county, whither suitors, witnesses, and jurors were obliged to repair. This circumstance of itself operated as a denial of justice to the poor.Mr. John Wood
 knew from experience the inconvenience of the present state of things, for he had frequently had to travel fifty miles to attend an Assize. This Bill was desired by the county, and it was so simple that he did not conceive any objection could be made to it.Mr. Curteis
 expressed his opinion that such a measure could be advantageously applied to Yorkshire.Lord Morpeth
 wished such a Bill to be applied to Somersetshire.Mr. Sandford
 withdrew his Amendment.Mr. Campbell
350 presented a Petition from a Town in the county of Waterford, praying for the abolition of Slavery. The noble Lord observed, that he would take care in future to put his name on the Speaker's list, before that of the hon. member for Waterford (Mr.
350Lord Norreys
 also protested against such irregular references to the parliamentary conduct of any Member. If the noble Lord wanted to get away from the House early, he ought to have attended earlier. This night the debate had been produced by an attack on the honour and character of his hon. friend, who was driven into the discussion in mere self-defence.Mr. Hume
 observed, that as the noble Lord was a young Member, he bad not noticed the remark, which was certainly irregular. This House was not the place, where the attendance of Members should be made a matter of complaint, but he thought that the noble Lord had meant what he said merely in good humour.The Speaker
 said, that he courted the censure of those who could frivolously assail a Member for attendance in the discharge of his duty. He had no connection with Ministers and expected nothing from them; and if the noble Lord would consult only his conscience in his vote, and do as much for Ireland as he (Mr. O'Connell) had done, more fame would attend the noble Lord than had belonged to any of his ancestors that he had ever heard of.Mr. O'Connell
 interposed. The hon. Gentleman had not the excuse of being a new Member; and it was highly irregular to urge imputations, more especially prospectively. A comparison of parliamentary conduct was neither fair nor regular.The Speaker
 was convinced at once that he had been in error; and the personal nature of the attack of the noble Lord, which excited in him some indignation, was his only excuse.Mr. O'Connell
 said, nothing could be more delightful he was sure, to the House, or give more satisfaction to the country, than to find the officers of the Crown ready to bring forward propositions for the reform of the laws. An effect might be produced in the various Courts by declamations and orations; but it was only by introducing judicious reform, that a beneficial result could be produced; and it was to be regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite should be able to bestow only a small portion of his time on the important subject of legal reform. Were it otherwise, the work of improvement would not move on so slowly. On those parts of the generality of Acts which related to matters of law, manifold constructions were continually put. If, therefore, in every Session but one wholesome measure was introduced, we could not expect that reform in the Court of Equity which was so much required, to be completed before many years. He was sure that the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman on the doubtful constructions of the law, must have weight; and he hoped that he would devise some plan by which all unnecessary inquiries into the title to estates should be put a stop to. Some law was required to set those inquiries at rest, which under the present laws, were continually arising. It would be advisable that some system should be laid down by which the possessor of an estate should be undisturbed in his possession. He should say, for instance, that if evidence could be given of possession for the period of twenty years, it would perhaps, be the best security to such property that could be devised.Mr. D. W. Harvey
344v.v.343 was of opinion, that the
344v.v.343Mr. O'Connell
334 said, was this, then, the distinction intended to be drawn,—the distinction between the expression" What do I care about Ireland?" and the expression, "I do not care about Ireland." The words of the hon. Member were still ringing in his ears. By those words the hon. Member appeared to him to throw off Ireland altogether, his mind being entirely taken up with his English constituents. He thought that the hon. Member, in using those words, meant to cast off Ire-
334Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he would speak, then, in explanation.Mr. O'Connell
:—All he had to say was this,—namely, that the personalities had been commenced against him, and not by him. He appealed to those around him if this were not the fact.Mr. O'Connell
" No, no""No, no". said, that he had been a good deal astonished at the warmth of the hon. Member; for, as it appeared to him, by the hon. Member's own showing, he had merely repeated the expression which the hon. Member acknowledged he had used [" No, no""No, no".Mr. O'Connell
 asked the right hon. Secretary when he meant to introduce a Bill for facilitating the recovery of small debts.Mr. Sykes
333Dublin Evening Post332 rose, for the purpose of presenting a Petition against the Truck-system. He trusted that the House would allow him to take this opportunity of noticing a passage in a speech which had been made at a parish meeting in Ireland, by the hon. and learned member for Waterford. He need hardly say that this passage contained a reflection on himself; and, although he did not think that any disapprobation, coming from the hon. and learned member for Waterford, was likely to injure his character, yet, as a public man, he felt it necessary to notice it, and to expose the misrepresentation. On one evening towards the close of the last Session of Parliament, when a bill which he had introduced respecting the truck-system stood for committee, the hon. and learned Member came across the House to him and said, "Your bill stands for to-night; I shall vote against it, because it is against my principles; but I should not have spoken against it if you had not included Ireland in it; have you any objection to
333Dublin Evening Post332Mr. Littleton
 said, that the expression he had used was, "Well, I do not care about Ireland;" and he had already explained, he hoped satisfactorily to the House, the manner in which he had used it.Mr. Littleton
 begged to ask a question of the right hon. Secretary opposite, which appeared to him to be very material in the present state of the realm. It was well known that this metropolis, and a portion of the country, were in a state of great excitement. Many attempts had been made in that House to ameliorate the condition of the poor, and, under existing circumstances, he could refrain no longer from asking his Majesty's Ministers whether they had any measures to propose, and at what time they meant to propose them, with the view of relieving the extreme pressure of the lower, and also of the middling classes, who, in consequence of that pressure, were unable to employ as many of the labouring poor as they wished to employ. If Ministers had no such measures in contemplation, then individuals, however humble, must call upon Parliament to assist them, and to support them in their endeavours to effect this object.Mr. Portman
:—To general measures.Mr. Portman
 begged to remind the right hon. Secretary, that although he did not wish to precipitate measures, delays were sometimes very dangerous, and that the people might become desperate.Mr. Portman
 said, he must decline the challenge which the right hon. Secretary had given him, because he thought it the duty of the Government to bring forward a measure on the subject.Mr. Portman
331 rose to complain of the extraordinary waste of time which had been consumed in these irrelevant discussions. He was sorry to say that, during the present Session, he had heard language used every day in that House which he was sure would not be tolerated in any other house in the
331Mr. Brougham
 said, that whenever the question fairly came before the House, it would be found that the promotions referred to did not much increase the expense. He did not object to the Return.Sir H. Hardinge
347 had no objection to the Return, and if the noble Lord connected
347Sir H. Hardinge
 thought it was due to join with the hon. member for Kent in saying that the Government had done all that could be expected of it to ascertain the authors of these fires, and put an end to them. He regretted that the spirit which prevailed in the county of Kent had spread itself to two parishes in the county which he had the honour to represent, but he entertained not the least doubt that the labouring poor of the district were perfectly innocent of those offences.Mr. Briscoe
 begged to remind the hon. Member that, in the last Session, after he had given notice of that measure, the hon. and learned member for Yorkshire (Mr. Brougham) obtained leave to bring in a bill to extend the powers of local courts, and to give to them a more beneficial jurisdiction. As the bill of the hon. and learned Member would include all that it was intended to effect by the measure referred to, he had waited until the sense of the House should be taken upon it.Sir R. Peel
337 thought it would be a great advantage if conversations and remarks of the nature which had just been made, were preceded by some notice, and he must be allowed to observe, that the remarks of the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, seemed to convey some reproach upon his Majesty's Government for supine-ness with reference to the late disturbances—a reproach the most entirely unfounded that could possibly be uttered. It was extremely difficult at one and the same time to enforce the strictest economy, and exercise the energy that should belong
337Sir Robert Peel
336 said, he really thought that this subject would be much better dealt
336Sir R. Peel
 hoped he had said nothing from which it could be inferred that he was indifferent to the condition of the labouring poor, or that he was insensible to the deep importance of the subject. Was it not, however, clear, that almost every measure must affect their condition? Did not the remission of the Beer-duty affect the condition of the labouring classes? Would not the passing of Irish vagrants, and any measure for the employment of the Irish poor at home, and thus preventing their immigration into this country, affect the condition of the labouring poor? How, then, could he answer a question so complicated as that of the hon. Member? He thought the hon. Member must himself see the impossibility of this. He wished, however, most studiously to guard himself against the possibility of its being thought that he differed from the hon. Member, or from the noble Lord, as to the importance of the subject to which the hon. Member's question related.Sir R. Peel
 said, that an answer to such a question would include details which the House, he was sure, would not expect him to be prepared to enter into. He was ready to give a specific answer to any specific question; but, with all the respect he entertained for the hon. Member, he must refuse to attempt to satisfy the hon. Member on a subject so general as that to which the hon. Member's question referred.Sir R. Peel
 said, he must protest against this course of asking, day after day, questions with regard to the measures contemplated by the Government. It must be evident to every hon. Member, that scarcely any measure could be proposed which would not, directly or indirectly, affect the condition of the labouring poor. Was it possible, then, that he could enter into the details which an answer to the question of the hon. Member must necessarily lead him into. The hon. Member had mentioned the metropolis; did the hon. Member mean to inquire whether the Ministers had in contemplation any partial measure; or, did the hon. Member refer to general measures?Sir R. Peel
:—The hon. Member will be good enough to confine himself strictly to explanation.The Speaker
338 bore testimony to the fact, that Government had given immediate assistance on being applied to, and he had much satisfaction in being-able to state, that in the eastern part of the county the efforts for the suppression of disturbance had not been altogether unsuccessful; and in the eastern part of the county he had the means of knowing that many of the inhabitants had used great exertion to discover the causes of the
338Sir Edward Knatchbull
 (in reply to Mr. Brougham) consented to postpone his Motion, of which he had given notice, with regard to slave-evidence in the colonies.Sir G. Murray
obsta principiis concurred in the view taken by the hon. Member (Mr. Portman) near him. He would take that opportunity of observing, that the subject required immediate attention. The disturbances which had taken place in a neighbouring county, and which were extending to other places, must be instantly looked to. Much of the early part of his life had been passed among tumults, and he knew from experience that there was no more effectual way of quelling disturbances than for the Government to give to the local authorities more assistance when their ordinary force was not sufficient. The maxim obsta principiisSir J. Wrottesley
335 said, that the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have misunderstood
335Lord Althorp
353 stated, that a Petition had been presented some time ago to his Majesty, from the Parishioners of the Parish of Stanhope, in the County of Durham, respecting the
353Sir James Graham
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman he would change the nature of his intended Motion, adopt at once a more direct course, and move an Address to his Majesty on the subject.Sir James Graham
358"We beg to direct your prompt and serious attention to those of vital importance—the assessed house and window taxes, which your petitioners feel, beyond the general pressure of taxation, in consequence of the inequality with which they are laid, rendering them unjust in their operation: they further expose your petitioners too frequently to the vindictive feelings of the collectors, and prove a formidable barrier to improvement. We therefore pray your hon. House to take such measures as may enable you to repeal the same, and thus grant immediate relief to your petitioners."357"Resolved to do their duty to themselves and to their fellow-citizens as long as any hope remains. They beg to call the attention of your hon. House to means which may be used to enable your hon. House to abolish a large amount of taxes. These means are—the abolition of all sinecure places of every kind, and by whomsoever held; the abolition of all pensions where no services have been performed; the reduction of all pensions to a sum commensurate with real service; abolition of all useless places; reduction of salaries of all overpaid useful places to the lowest sum for which needful services can be adequately performed; reduction of the standing army; reduction in the Ordnance department; abandonment of every colonial establishment for which the colony is unable or unwilling to pay; the most economical arrangement with such colonies as are able and willing to defray all
357l.356"That these evils, enormous as they are,
356"That it is a state equally disgraceful to the nation and to the Government, in the opinion of all thinking men, both natives and foreigners."That this lamentable state of a nation, so ingenious, skilful, intelligent, and industrious, would never have been brought about by a House of Commons fairly chosen by the people."That these oppressive, unequal, and enormous taxes have engendered very general discontent, which is every day increasing, and may lead to consequences, the bare contemplation of which is calculated to make every reflecting man shudder."That not only are the taxes oppressive which the people are compelled to pay, but the misgovernment they have engendered is even more inimical to the welfare of the nation, as they have induced Ministers to abridge the liberties of the subject; to maintain an immense standing army in time of peace, an army greater than ever existed during any war preceding the last; to proceed in divers ways to preserve their influence; to depress trade; to injure manufactures; to impede commerce; to embarrass agriculture, and to do great evil to all the useful portion of the community."That these taxes, so enormous in the aggregate, are unequal and partial, favouring the rich, and unjustly oppressing all the rest of the community."That so numerous are these taxes, that an adequate description of them and their operation would fill a volume.355"That the taxes levied on the people are so large in amount as to exceed the sum of one million of pounds sterling for every six working days in each week."354"That the Members of your hon. House are returned by a very small minority of the male population of this kingdom who are householders; that the means by which a majority of the Members of your hon. House are returned, are—by the undue influence of Peers; by the undue influence of a few wealthy persons not Peers; by the undue influence of the Treasury; by the influence of terror, as it is in various ways exercised over electors; by the purchase of seats for rotten boroughs: by persons who
354"That this country, unparalleled in the annals of history, has been brought to a state utterly at variance with its knowledge, industry, wealth, and enterprise; that this state is the consequence of a bad administration in its affairs; that this bad administration is the inevitable consequence of the popular branch of the Government not having been elected by the people, nor accountable to the people." presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Mary-le-bone, agreed to at a public meeting, where 3,000 persons were assembled complaining of Distress. He begged leave to call the attention of the House to the petition, which spoke the sense of the majority of the inhabitants of that parish, and he believed of the people of this kingdom. The petitioners say:—
358"We beg to direct your prompt and serious attention to those of vital importance—the assessed house and window taxes, which your petitioners feel, beyond the general pressure of taxation, in consequence of the inequality with which they are laid, rendering them unjust in their operation: they further expose your petitioners too frequently to the vindictive feelings of the collectors, and prove a formidable barrier to improvement. We therefore pray your hon. House to take such measures as may enable you to repeal the same, and thus grant immediate relief to your petitioners."357"Resolved to do their duty to themselves and to their fellow-citizens as long as any hope remains. They beg to call the attention of your hon. House to means which may be used to enable your hon. House to abolish a large amount of taxes. These means are—the abolition of all sinecure places of every kind, and by whomsoever held; the abolition of all pensions where no services have been performed; the reduction of all pensions to a sum commensurate with real service; abolition of all useless places; reduction of salaries of all overpaid useful places to the lowest sum for which needful services can be adequately performed; reduction of the standing army; reduction in the Ordnance department; abandonment of every colonial establishment for which the colony is unable or unwilling to pay; the most economical arrangement with such colonies as are able and willing to defray all
357l.356"That these evils, enormous as they are,
356"That it is a state equally disgraceful to the nation and to the Government, in the opinion of all thinking men, both natives and foreigners."That this lamentable state of a nation, so ingenious, skilful, intelligent, and industrious, would never have been brought about by a House of Commons fairly chosen by the people."That these oppressive, unequal, and enormous taxes have engendered very general discontent, which is every day increasing, and may lead to consequences, the bare contemplation of which is calculated to make every reflecting man shudder."That not only are the taxes oppressive which the people are compelled to pay, but the misgovernment they have engendered is even more inimical to the welfare of the nation, as they have induced Ministers to abridge the liberties of the subject; to maintain an immense standing army in time of peace, an army greater than ever existed during any war preceding the last; to proceed in divers ways to preserve their influence; to depress trade; to injure manufactures; to impede commerce; to embarrass agriculture, and to do great evil to all the useful portion of the community."That these taxes, so enormous in the aggregate, are unequal and partial, favouring the rich, and unjustly oppressing all the rest of the community."That so numerous are these taxes, that an adequate description of them and their operation would fill a volume.355"That the taxes levied on the people are so large in amount as to exceed the sum of one million of pounds sterling for every six working days in each week."354"That the Members of your hon. House are returned by a very small minority of the male population of this kingdom who are householders; that the means by which a majority of the Members of your hon. House are returned, are—by the undue influence of Peers; by the undue influence of a few wealthy persons not Peers; by the undue influence of the Treasury; by the influence of terror, as it is in various ways exercised over electors; by the purchase of seats for rotten boroughs: by persons who
354"That this country, unparalleled in the annals of history, has been brought to a state utterly at variance with its knowledge, industry, wealth, and enterprise; that this state is the consequence of a bad administration in its affairs; that this bad administration is the inevitable consequence of the popular branch of the Government not having been elected by the people, nor accountable to the people."Mr. Hume
362 also approved of the facilitating the recovery of small debts; but he thought the Bill went too far. He would not then, however, state his objections. With respect to the threats held out against the hon. and learned Gentleman,
362Mr. Campbell
 was the friend of cheap justice. He wished Mr. Brougham had turned his powerful mind to the general system, and made a thorough reform, carrying cheap justice home to every man's door. He would also repeat his wish that there was a code, for without that there would be no certainty in the law.Mr. O' Connell
 laid on the Table certain Papers containing an account of the Civil List expenditure. They were ordered to be printed. He then gave notice, that on Friday next, he should move that the House do resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider so much of the Speech of his Majesty as related to the Civil List.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman intended on that night to propose a vote to the House, or merely to make a statement on which he should afterwards ask for a vote?Mr. Hume
 said, he should on that night move his Resolutions.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that in that case, the House would be taken by surprise, as they could not in such haste be prepared to vote the Civil List; and if the resolutions were pressed, he should certainly be compelled to take the sense of the House against coming to any decision at that time.Mr. Hume
 said, that the Papers he had just laid on the Table contained full information on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to the return he had moved for last Session, respecting the salaries, pay, profit, and emoluments of those gentlemen who received more than 1,000l.Sir James Graham
 said, that every exertion had been made to complete that return, but two or three names were yet wanting. If the hon. Baronet would consent to receive it in that imperfect state, it could be given to him in a few days at furthest.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped no vote for the Civil List would be called for till that return was furnished.Sir J. Graham
 said, if the right hon. Gentleman pressed for a vote on Friday night, he should certainly be obliged to take the sense of the House against it.Mr. Hume
 declared he would oppose the Bill. He would not then enter into details, he would only say, that the Bill would make a very great alteration in our Courts, and in the whole administration of justice, and would, he believed, add very much to the expenses of the country.Mr. Tennant
 approved of the Bill, but wished that the House should come to an early decision, as the plan for the recovery of small debts, involved in it, was of great importance.Mr. Tennyson
 should oppose any vote for the Civil List till the House at large were fully informed upon the plan on which it was to be framed; and he called on the Ministers not to put the House in the situation of appearing to refuse anything to his Majesty, when, in fact, they would only be hesitating about coming to a vote till the Ministers had given them the information they properly required.Mr. Tennyson
363 disclaimed any intention of pulling down the judicial establishments of the country. On the contrary, he wished much of them to be preserved; and all he desired was, to reform those abuses which, whether introduced by the change of circumstances, or by defects in the original formation of these establishments, were now found united with them. He contended that his plan was not expensive, except at first starting, but that after it had been once established, the fees would more than pay the expenses. The small Courts in Scotland showed the correctness of this assertion. Now he was upon this subject, he wished to make one observation on an Essay published concerning him and his plans, written in a dialect of our language, which left no man at liberty to mistake the author—a most esteemed and valued and venerable friend of his—and in which he was accused, in direct and unmeasured terms—in terms of vituperation and abuse, that he certainly never expected from such an excellent and venerable person, and that went to charge him with being not only a mock reformer of the laws, but an opponent of all reforms— a person influenced by corrupt motives, and a dangerous enemy to the good of the State. The proof of such a charge was this, and a most curious proof it was:—that although the reforms he proposed might effect a present reduction of the expenses of litigation, yet that, in a few years, the
363Mr. Brougham
 answered, that two or three years at least must intervene before the change he proposed could produce all the effects he wished; and when it did, the only thing necessary was, for the Ministers to leave the vacancies on the Bench unfilled. He wished to take this opportunity of asking the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department why one appointment had been made in the Exchequer, at the expense of depriving the Court of King's Bench of a most amiable and excellent man, and a most learned and admirable Judge?Mr. Brougham
 replied, that the equalization of fees never would produce such an effect. Under present circumstances, to which he need do no more than barely allude, business would not be driven into the Exchequer.Mr. Brougham
 presented, in the mass, 355 Petitions, praying for the Abolition of Colonial Slavery. Of these, 283 were from places in Yorkshire, and sixty-five from places in Suffolk and Sussex. He declined wasting the time of the House by having them read, and abstained from saying anything respecting their subject matter, until he should bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. If, by great calamity, his motion should be unsuccessful, he was convinced there would soon be twenty petitions for every one now before the House; and he also expressed his perfect confidence, that if his motion touching Reform in Parliament were not also carried, the petitions in support of its object would, in value, weight, and number, far exceed even those against Colonial 3lavery.Mr. Brougham
 in moving for leave to bring in this Bill, said, that having last Session so fully explained its nature, object, and provisions, he did not feel he should now be wanting in due respect to the House, or liable to the charge of indifference to the great cause of legal reform, if he abstained from entering on the subject generally, and avoided touching upon principles, reasons, and details. Last Session the Bill was allowed to be brought in, read a first and second time, and committed, upon the understanding that it was to proceed no further that year. Now, he wanted to be admitted to bring it through the same stages in such a manner that it might be carried in a reasonable time, and at such a period of the Session, that it would not be impossible for it to receive the sanction of the other House before the breaking up of Parliament. There were so many matters of a nature more urgent, and of at least equal importance, before the House, that he should not press for the second reading and committal of the Bill before Christmas. He should, however, expect that after that period there would be no delay.Mr. Brougham,
marking their senseSeveral Members called "read, read."361360 said, that before he sat down, he felt compelled to advert to another topic, which was, however, connected with the measure before the House. He believed there was not a single day during the Session, or during the Recess,
marking their senseSeveral Members called "read, read."361360Mr. Brougham
352 could not tell why the right hon. Gentleman was so angry at what had fallen from him. He was not the only Minister. It was the Clerk of the Ordnance who had been more particularly wanted in the House that evening. The right hon. Gentleman complained,
352Mr. Brougham
 (it being rather more than half-past-three) repeated the observations which he made the other evening on the impropriety of the House being left without any Minister during the presentation of Petitions on important subjects.Mr. Brougham
 urged the necessity of furnishing the House with all proper information before the vote on the Civil List was called for.Mr. Maberly
 said, that three new Judges were about to be appointed, but if the plan of his hon. and learned friend were adopted, a great part of the business of the Courts would apparently be taken away, and then, he wished to know, where would be the necessity for their appointment?Mr. Bruce
 said, that there certainly had been some serious disturbances and breaches of the peace in the neighbourhood of Temple-bar. He was afraid that as long as the present Administration remained in power, the mornings of the right hon. Gentleman would be but too frequently occupied as they had been that day.Mr. Beaumont
l. observed, that great discontent had been excited in the parish of Stanhope, containing 12,000 persons, by the apprehension that Dr. Phillpotts was to be allowed to retain the possession of the rectory of that parish, the tithes of which amounted to 4,000l.Mr. Beaumont
in commendam. answered, that the rectory had formerly been held by a Bishop, and it was to be held by the Bishop of Exeter in commendam.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was, he fancied, almost the only person who had viewed the scene of last night in that light. For himself he knew that there had been some severe collisions between the police and the mob; and that a great part of his morning had been employed on that subject.Sir R. Peel
 agreed to the Bill's passing through the same stages as last Session, reserving to himself the right of opposing any part of it he thought exceptionable at a future period. He cordially approved of the Bill so far as it related to the facilitating the recovery of small debts; and if, on account of objections to other parts of the Bill, it was ultimately rejected, he would be happy to originate or support a measure which should have in view the object of which he so highly approved.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that a part of the plan of the law reforms, was to equalize the fees of the Courts, and thus, as far as possible, to equalize the business of the Exchequer with that of the other Courts.Sir Robert Peel
 who almost immediately afterwards entered the House, expressed his surprise at the observations which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made in his absence. He had never understood that in consequence of the new arrangement it was imperative upon Ministers to be in the House at three o'clock. He tried to reconcile his various duties as well as he could, but it was impossible for a Secretary of State to be always able to leave his office at a particular moment. He should have thought that the state of the town last night might have led the hon. and learned Gentleman to infer that he had not been altogether unoccupied that morning. He had also been attending his Majesty at the levee, and had received his Majesty's gracious permission to leave the Court before the termination of the levee (contrary to the usage), in order that he might be enabled to attend his duty in that House.Sir R. Peel,
386ex parte said:—I have been requested by the Very Rev. Dean of Chester to make a communication of some importance to the House. In doing so, I think it right to state, that I have no intimate acquaintance with that reverend personage; but from what I know of his character, I have considered it due to him to accede to his request. The rev. gentleman says, in a letter which he has addressed to me, that he should esteem it a very great favour if I would state in the House of Commons this evening, that he earnestly requests hon. Members will suspend their judgments upon the question which is to be brought forward about him on the 18th, until they have heard those statements which he ventures to hope will be found satisfactory to the House. In the mean time, he trusts that those 386ex parteLord Belgrave
l.l.388387ex post factoex post facto rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Statute 7 George 4th, cap. 29, commonly called the Subletting Act. He pursued this course because he was convinced that, if there were anything objectionable in the Act—and it was admitted on all hands that there was— it would be better to bring in a new Statute at once, than to attempt to patch up the old one. This Statute was the law in Ireland, but it was not the law in England, and he thought he had a right to have a case made out why the law of landlord and tenant should be different in the two countries. This Act had two objects in view, and it might be, for convenience—nay, it ought to be, for convenience,—-divided into two Statutes. The first part of the Act related to existing leases and contracts; the second, to leases and contracts to be hereafter made. The first part of the Act altered the nature of contracts then subsisting, by giving a literal meaning to the words of contracts; whereas a legal meaning, which was a different meaning, attached to those words before. This was an unjust, because an l.l.388387ex post factoex post factoMr. O'Connell
398ex post facto recommended a medium course on this occasion. The law required amendment, but he was against its total repeal. He approved of its principle but some of its details required revision. He conceived that much of the excitement that prevailed in Ireland would be allayed, if this law were not to operate upon leases made prior to its enactment; and it appeared to him, that it was better that the landlord should suffer from the imperfect wording of the old law, than that the tenant should suffer from the 398ex post factoMr. Villiers Stewart
 observed, that the principle of this Act was the protection of the landlord against the frauds of his tenantry, and in his opinion no one had a right to interfere with a landlord in the distribution of his property. This Act enabled landlords to deal with their land, in a manner most advantageous for all parties. He maintained, that the great misery of the tenants was occasioned by the middle-men, who threw all the blame of their own fault on the landlords. He must beg leave of the House to take that opportunity of defending his noble relative (Lord Beresford) and his agent, from the attacks made upon them out of doors by the learned Member opposite.Colonel Beresford
 rose and said, that he could not well agree to the hon. Gentleman's replying to what he had said out of doors, unless he was to be allowed to satisfy the House of the authority upon which he had made his statement.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he could not yield to the learned Gentleman's proposition, and must beg leave of the House to proceed in his statement. [Here the hon. Member read several observations that had been made upon the agent of Lord Beresford by Mr. O'Connell. The substance of them was, that Lord Beresford and his agent had hunted poor people out of their tenements, and had turned their ' holdings' into pasture lands for four-footed animals, to be shipped to England to support his Lordship in greater luxury whilst he was an absentee] He (Colonel Beresford) had authority to deny every particle of that charge. What Lord Beresford's agent had done had been at his own loss. He had let the lands to tenants without distinction of religious or political opinions. His farms averaged from forty to sixty-acres each. Dr. Doyle had borne testimony to the good conduct of this agent; and he could say, that there was not a tenant about to leave the estate who was not two years' rent in arrear.Colonel Beresford
l.1.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.402ex post factoex post facto401400 thought that, standing in his situation, it might be desirable for him to express his sentiments on this law, and in doing so, he could assure the House that he had no other wish than to assimilate, as much as possible, the laws of property in the two countries. It was well known that he had never spared any toil or trouble in his efforts to extend
l.1.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.402ex post factoex post facto401400The Solicitor General
403in toto, complained, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, so far from proposing any Amendment of the Subletting Act, had denominated that measure a boon to the Irish peasantry. He (Mr. Grattan) did not contemplate it in that light, and if the question came to a division (which he rather deprecated), he should certainly support the motion of the hon. and learned member for Waterford. Without going the length of condemning the act 403in toto,Mr. Grattan
404 thought that it was hardly proper on the present occasion to enter into the details of the bill, for if the House should determine with the hon. member for Waterford against the principle of the measure, it would be unnecessary to discuss the details; and if the House should decide differently, the proper time for discussing them would be when a measure similar to that he had introduced last year, should be introduced by his right hon. and gallant colleague, the present Secretary for Ireland. The reason why he had proposed to amend the bill last Session was to be found in the existence of doubts and ambiguity as to the meaning and effect of the existing law. These doubts he had attempted to remove by a measure which he believed
404Lord F. L. Gower
405 begged leave to state, that it was his intention to-morrow to move for leave to bring in a bill to explain and amend the statute 7 Geo. 4. c. 29., commonly called the sub-letting act. His measure would resemble, as nearly as possible, the bill introduced by his hon. friend (Lord F. L. Gower) last year. A question had been raised as to whether if a lease did not contain a contract against subletting the tenant should be supposed to have violated his agreement by underletting, a part of his holding. As the law stood, if the tenant under-let, even although there was no clause in his lease against sub-letting, he was held to have violated his contract. This was the case in Ireland, but it was not the law in England. Was it fair that such a distinction should exist? Generally speaking, a tenant was less instructed than his landlord, who had more power and information to enforce his wishes, and should specify them. It would be for the House to remedy the defect in the existing law if it should think proper. It would be extremely desirable that individuals ejected by the present law should be enabled to find employment and subsistence elsewhere, and not be encouraged to flock into towns, where they presented objects of distress and misery. It was possible when the result of the committee on the state of the poor in Ireland came before the House, that means might be discovered of employing the industrious classes, or affording relief by emigration and other measures. The hon. member for Water-ford was in the habit when in Ireland of attributing all the evils that afflicted the country to the sub-letting act. He was glad that the hon. Member did not attempt to press the point in that manner in the House. If he had he could have been immediately refuted. In the report of
405Sir H. Hardinge
407406 had heard with pleasure the intention expressed by the right hon. and gallant Secretary to introduce a measure for the amendment of an act which, whatever were its merits, or demerits, had produced a vast deal of dissatisfaction in Ireland. He would not go into the legal question involved in the bill, but as a representative of an Irish county, and being sensible how much the sub-letting act affected the agricultural population of
407406Mr. Wyse
408 thought that the Subletting Act tended to prevent the improvement of waste lands in Ireland; because in cases where large portions of bog and other waste land were held by an individual, the immediate tenant was restricted from underletting parts of those wastes to persons who, if they could obtain posses-
408Sir J. Bourke
 said, he should vote against the motion of the hon. member for Water-ford, not that he approved of the Subletting Act, which, he must say, was very unpopular in Ireland, but because, after the statement of the right hon. Secretary, he thought it his duty to wait for the amended bill.Lord Boyle
 expressed his satisfaction at what had been said by the Secretary for Ireland, of his intention to introduce a bill to amend this Act, which had already produced so much mischief; but, at the same time as he highly disapproved of the Subletting Act, which was a restriction both on landlords and tenants, he would vote for the motion of the hon. member for Waterford.Mr. Ruthven
 moved "That a Select Committee be appointed to take into consideration the state of the Poorer Classes in Ireland, and the best means of improving their condition; and to report their observations thereon to the House." The hon. Member explained, that his object was, to revive the Committee which sat last Session, adding a few Members and filling up the places of those who were no longer in Parliament.Mr. Spring Rice
412411410 rose, to move an Amendment to the Motion of his hon. friend. He admitted that the names of the Gentlemen selected were most respectable, but they were, unfortunately, Gentlemen who had strong opinions against the measure of giving relief to Ireland by any system of Poor-laws. Of all the Members of the Committee, there were only ten or eleven favourable to such a measure. This might be inferred from the fact, that in the last Report, which extended to fifty-seven pages, and which, with the Appendix of evidence, occupied four large volumes, there were only sixteen lines which referred to that measure of relief. The Members of the Committee reminded him of the company of actors who undertook to perform the play of the Prince of Denmark, leaving out the part of Hamlet. Here was a committee appointed for the purpose of considering the state of the Irish poor;
412411410Mr. Grattan
414413 said, that it was not from any feeling of indifference to the situation of Ireland, or to the welfare of its people, that he stated that he was completely tired out with hearing hon. Members from that country continually moving for committees, and complaining of the distress prevalent there. He would suggest, that it would be infinitely better if hon. Members would bring forward specific motions, instead of night after night occupying the House with debates, and then moving for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire. He agreed with the observations which fell from the hon. member for Wicklow, respecting the inefficacy of all inquiries before committees. He did not intend to oppose the motion of the hon. member for Limerick, for he entertained no objection to appointing a committee, provided he had not to serve upon it; but he was convinced, not only from the reports of a number of committees appointed to inquire into the state of Ireland, but also by reports on various subjects, that it was folly to expect that any good could result from the labours of a Select Committee. He never remembered any good practical measure which had originated in a committee. It ought to be the business of Government to take up a grievance and apply a remedy, for it must necessarily have better opportunities than any committee to get information. Suppose a committee to agree in a report, and recommend the enactment of some measure to Parliament, it could not be carried into effect unless it met with the approbation and support of Government. With regard to the observations which had been made respecting the distress in the two countries, he could only say, that the distress and the evils of both countries arose from the same source, and the same measure of relief might efficaciously be applied to both. He called upon Ministers to reduce our enormous establishments, and to effect savings to such an extent, that the people might be relieved from the load of taxation which now pressed them to the
414413Mr. Alderman Waithman
 wished to state, in. a very few words, his reason for supporting a modified system of Poor-laws for Ireland, which, he conceived, would be attended with great benefit to both countries. He was satisfied, that the feeling of the large county which he had the honour to represent was favourable to the introduction of such a system, and he believed that such a feeling was becoming general. He knew that a very strong wish was manifested by English farmers for such a measure. It was a matter of general complaint, that the expense of maintaining the Irish pauper population fell, not upon the Irish aristocracy and landlords, but upon the middle classes of this country, who were so reduced that they were struggling for existence. The English labourer, also, was daily descending lower in the scale, and his condition was materially deteriorated by the great competition in the labour-market. The circumstances of the English labourer had been reduced by the great influx of the Irish peasantry, and the misery which prevailed in Ireland was spreading rapidly here. The condition of the Irish peasantry would have been infinitely better had there been a system of Poor-laws in that country; and some provision for the poor of Ireland was now necessary for the welfare of both countries. A tax for the support of the Irish poor was the only tax which could be imposed on the absentees of that country, compatible with the institutions of a free country, and he should like to see such a tax levied as would reach the great estates of absentee proprietors. Such a tax would operate as a protection to the rate-payers in England, and would greatly improve the condition and character of the Irish peasantry.Mr. Phillip H. Howard
416 did not desire to disparage the labours of the Committee of last Session, on the subject of the Irish poor, but he could not find that any useful measure had resulted from its labours. The Committee was occupied in examinations
416Mr. O'Brien
417 could not neglect the opportunity of paying his tribute of respect to the Chairman of the Committee for the industry, judgment, and impartiality which he had exhibited on all occasions. He needed no other proof of this than the Report on the Table, which was a sufficient evidence of these virtues. With respect to the Poor-laws, the Committee postponed its labours on that point, because it had not sufficient evidence to form a determination, and it resolved to apply to the House for permission to resume the inquiry. As for the charge that the Chairman was prejudiced against the introduction of Poor-laws, he did not believe it, and in the Report which he drew up there were only eleven lines on the subject, which merely recommend that it should be made a future subject of inquiry. He knew that some persons entertained strong prejudices against the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, in consequence of conceiving that it was meant to adopt the English system. That was not the case; no human being would ever think of recommending an anomalous system like the present Poor-laws of this country. Before, however, any step could be taken, it was necessary to get every information on the subject; and there was no better way than by the inquiries of a Committee. He was exceedingly surprised to hear an hon. Member assert, that the Reports on Ireland were little better than waste paper, and that it was a useless expenditure of the public money to print them. He could only say, that he wished the public money might never be spent in a less useful manner. He entered into the Committee with a prejudice in favour of Poor-laws for Ireland; but that prejudice was now much weakened; for, amongst all the numerous witnesses examined by the Committee,
417Mr. Vernon Smith
420419418 meant to confine himself to replying to some of the observations of his hon. friend the member for Wicklow. On bringing this subject forward last year, he entered into a long statement of the motives which induced him to submit it to the consideration of Parliament; and did not, therefore, make any remarks on the present occasion. The hon. Member complained of his silence, but that was dictated by supposing that there would be no objection to the motion. He was less surprised at the complaints, when he heard the hon. Member charge the Committee with being prejudiced on the subject. The hon. member for Wicklow seemed to think that the only matter for inquiry before the Committee was the Poor-laws, and that he (Mr. Rice) was strongly prejudiced against them. But he would appeal to any Gentleman who heard him—to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who was in the House at the time,—whether he did not distinctly state, on bringing the subject, before Parliament last year, that the question of the introduction of the Poor-laws into Ireland was one that required investigation; acknowledging certainly that, from the best attention he could give the subject, it appeared to him that the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland would not be
420419418Mr. Spring Rice
 being proposed, the hon. Member said, that he could not consent to be a member of the Committee, as he did not think any good could result from its appointment. There was already a fund in Ireland in the possession of the Church, from which the poor ought to be relieved.On the name of Mr. O'Connell
385s.s.384"That the agricultural interest has for many years past been in so depressed a condition, that farmers have not been enabled to afford to pay their labourers at the usual rate of remuneration for their work, and that thereby many industrious labouring men have become burthens to their parishes, and in many places been reduced to privation and distress. That your petitioners are desirous of calling the attention of your honourable House to the subject, that the distress is daily increasing; and they, therefore, most humbly intreat your honourable House to institute an inquiry into the causes of the present agricultural distress. Your petitioners further take leave respectfully to suggest, that the great burthen on landholders may, in some measure, be removed, by lowering the rate of tithes. Your petitioners further entreat, your earnest endeavours towards effecting a reform in the
384 presented a petition from the Mayor, Jurats and Commonalty, householders, and inhabitants of the town and hundred of Tenterden, Kent praying for the reduction of taxation. A more important petition he observed, had not been presented for some time to the House. He said this in consideration of the place from whence it came—a part of the county of Kent, which had recently been the scene of very unpleasant transactions, and in consideration of the feelings which had dictated it, the almost desperate situation of the inhabitants of that part of the country having called forth the petition. With the leave of the House he would read it, which the hon. Member did as follows:
385s.s.384"That the agricultural interest has for many years past been in so depressed a condition, that farmers have not been enabled to afford to pay their labourers at the usual rate of remuneration for their work, and that thereby many industrious labouring men have become burthens to their parishes, and in many places been reduced to privation and distress. That your petitioners are desirous of calling the attention of your honourable House to the subject, that the distress is daily increasing; and they, therefore, most humbly intreat your honourable House to institute an inquiry into the causes of the present agricultural distress. Your petitioners further take leave respectfully to suggest, that the great burthen on landholders may, in some measure, be removed, by lowering the rate of tithes. Your petitioners further entreat, your earnest endeavours towards effecting a reform in the
384Mr. Hodges
l.452l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,451l.l.l.l.l.450l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.nil,l.l.449448 could not let this discussion pass without expressing his great regret at the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman. He confessed that the speech he had heard, much disappointed him, as, he believed it would disappoint the whole
l.452l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,451l.l.l.l.l.450l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.nil,l.l.449448Mr. Hume
 said, across the Table, that that office had been abolished some years ago.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was understood to add, that the office had been abolished prospectively.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
454l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.453l.l.:—What, then, will the right hon. Gentleman say to the office of Master of the Hawks? Who keeps hawks now? I know not, but I believe that no man has any business to keep them. When the poor of the country are starving, is it a time for giving a pension to the Master of the Hawks? In addition to this, here is a list as long as a tailor's bill, of pensions altogether unnecessary, and which, of course, ought to be abolished. I submit, therefore, that all these items, instead of being glossed over by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, ought to be submitted to the test of a committee. It is a question whether the nation can afford to pay some expenses of the kind that appear even necessary. We have heard declarations—nay, vows of economy—and what interpretation can be put upon that part of the King's most gracious Speech, but that he wishes every practicable retrenchment to be made? If his Ministers would but give his Majesty wholesome advice, there was no man in the kingdom more ready to follow it. I now arrive at the seventh class—the salaries of the Commissioners of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I wish the just salaries of all useful public servants to be paid; but is there any reason why they should be put upon the Civil List? National expenses ought to be paid out of the national purse. In the eighth class—occasional payments—the greater number ought indisputably to come before the House of Commons. I will state one or two of them. Here 1 find no less than 10,000454l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.453l.l.Mr. Hume
 was sure that when his learned friend opposite (Mr. Brougham) considered what long speeches he was in the habit of making, he would not quarrel with him (the Attorney-General) for not remembering every thing that he (Mr. Brougham) might say there, and in other places, where he (the Attorney-General) had the pleasure of meeting him. Had he (the Attorney-General) supposed for a moment that his learned friend, or any other lawyer, could fall into the error of considering the Revenues of the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall included in the expression, "the Hereditary Revenues of the Crown," he (Sir J. Scarlett) would have immediately set him right.The Attorney-General
 said, that by this Bill, the old principle of protection, which he had hoped had been exploded, was renewed. When he looked at the duties on articles imported from North America and the United States, he saw clearly what the object and intention was. He could not look at this as at all a measure of policy, inasmuch as the effect would be to give a misdirection to capital—to raise up certain interests which ought to be left to their own resources, and which, on some future occasion, we should again be called upon to protect. All these duties were for the benefit of the West-Indies, but opportunities would occur for their consideration at a future period. The whole system was one of error, which ought not to be perpetuated, as it would ever afford a strong ground of objection. The entire Colonial system required the most minute attention, as there was nothing more productive of expense, exclusive of the shackles it imposed upon commerce. He would not then occupy the time of the House further, but he must enter his protest against the whole proceeding.Mr. Whitmore
472 contended, that the present schedule bestowed no boon upon the West-India interests, for that, before 1825, the trade between the Colonies and America was not incumbered with any duty, and the Colonies would not be better off now than before that year. In fact, the duties laid on by Lord Goderich were less than those now proposed. In justice to the colonists, some protection ought to be afforded to the West Indies, which were subject to duties, not for their benefit, but for the benefit of the Crown, and they were imposed, just as suited, the political
472Mr. Keith Douglas
 observed, that scarcely had his hon. friend uttered his prediction, relative to the West-Indies, than it was fulfilled by the Representative of that interest who had just spoken. He, however, in the name of the people of England, must protest against any duty upon sugar, which was an article of the first necessity. Were the West-India interest not satisfied with protecting duties to the amount of a million and a half, but they must require fresh imposts in addition? The Colonies were most expensive encumbrances, and there was no end to the outlay required in their favour, for, in addition to all these duties, they would have fortifications, canals, &c. to provide for.Mr. Warburton
 also protested against the present Colonial system.Mr. Jephson
475474473 said, that he did not consider it necessary to go again over the ground which he had so recently passed, by repeating the remarks which, on the introduction of the measure, he felt it his duty to offer to the House. The proposed schedule had been treated, although it contained a plan, more liberal than had previously existed, as if it were a departure from the principles of what was usually termed free-trade. The only objection he had heard to it related to the principle of the Bill; and if he rightly comprehended the objection, the measure had been as completely misunderstood, as could well be conceived. It had been stated, that the schedule now introduced by Government, was an innovation on the recognised system. Such was not the case. The object of the measure was not to impose, for the first time, the duties which the schedule contained. It was the sequence of an amicable termination to a long controversy; and the arrangement had been concluded on terms which involved no departure from those principles (either in respect of our trade, or of our colonial possessions) which his Majesty's Government professed. The Ministers had not acted in opposition to the abstract principles of free-trade, but they were not bound to follow them so closely as to lead to consequences of an injurious character. He knew nothing so dangerous as that sort of philosophy which called for the unqualified adoption of those principles.
475474473Mr. Herries
s. that there would be in every sense a diminution of duty. For instance, there was formerly a duty of 1s.Mr. Herries explained,
 thought it would be more convenient, from the nature of this Bill, to postpone the discussion upon it till the next stage. He therefore proposed that it be read a second time, and be committed for Monday se'nnight.Mr. C. W. Wynn
427 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Mere and other places in Wiltshire, complaining of the great Distress under which they
427Mr. Benett
 wished to know what his Majesty's Government intended to do in the way of the remission of taxation. An idea had gone very generally abroad, that it was intended to repeal the duty on Seaborne-coals. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether that was in contemplation?Mr. R. Grant
 observed, that his right hon. friend had, the other evening, stated, that great inconvenience must always attend premature disclosures of that nature. He was sure, therefore, that his hon. friend, the member for Norwich, would not attribute his declining to answer the question to any want of courtesy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had hoped, after what passed last Session, that a remission would have been proposed of the duty on Sea-borne-coal. He still hoped, that the result of the motion of the hon. member for Limerick would tend to the attainment of so desirable an object. He was aware that this was not a time at which an extensive remission of taxes could be expected, and, therefore, that hopes ought not to be held out which could not be realized. It was his firm conviction, however, that a great advantage would arise from remitting the taxes which pressed on industry, such as the duties on Seaborne-coals, soap, candles, the house and window-tax, and putting on a tax which would apply to the richer classes.Sir M. W. Ridley
428 declared, that he did not
428Mr. Bell
 defended the conduct of the coal owners, but agreed with the hon. Baronet in thinking that a reduction should be made in the assessed taxes.Mr. Tennyson
 observed, that he was prepared to support a Property-tax, if all practicable reduction in the indirect taxes and in the assessed taxes should prove insufficient to afford relief to the people.Sir R. Wilson
 protested against hon. Members at his side of the House encouraging the Ministers to lay on a Property-tax. Let that House take off the taxes first, and then they would force Ministers to reduce the establishments. This was in his mind the proper course to pursue, and not the reverse, as had been maintained by hon. Members. He contended that the House ought to interfere in the arrangements of the great coal-owners to promote the public good.Mr. Gordon
 asked if it were the intention of Government to re-appoint the China Trade Committees?General Gascoyne
 said, the best mode of answering that question, was to give notice that on Monday next he would move for the re-appointment of that Committee.Sir R. Peel
 asked the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was his intention, previous to entering upon the discussion respecting the Civil List, to lay before the House the details of the English Pension-list?Mr. Gordon
 said, his hon. friend must be aware that the details of the English Pension-list never were given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
429 replied, that as his right hon. friend had, upon the present occasion, given many papers which were never given before, such as papers referring to the Scotch Establishment; and considering the declaration made by Government, that they intended to lay all information
429Mr. Gordon
 begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that when he made a similar demand in 1828, it was objected to upon the ground that the details could not be brought forward until there was a new settlement of the Civil List. He did not think a single shilling should be voted until all the information that might be required was laid before the House.Mr. Hume
 said, he considered it would be convenient that previously to the House resolving itself into a Committee to take into consideration that part of his Majesty's Speech which referred to the settlement of the Civil List, he should state the course he intended to pursue. He did not expect the House to come to a decision that night on the Resolutions he should propose. After proposing those Resolutions, and stating his views respecting the future Civil List, which would be in great part matter of detail, he would lay before the House the various necessary documents in a clear form, so that hon. Members might be able to put themselves in full possession of all the information they required before they came to a vote on Monday next.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.444l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.443l.l.l.l.442l.l.l.l.l.l.441l.l.l.440l.l.l.l.439l.438437l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.436l.l.l.l.l.l.435l.l.Cheers.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.434433l.432l.431430 then spoke to the following effect:—I rise, Sir, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of recommending to the House to fulfil the assurance given to his Majesty, in answer to his gracious Speech from the Throne, that we would cheerfully provide all that was necessary for the support of the Civil Government and the honour and dignity of his Crown; and, Sir, if ever there was an occasion on which a proposition of this nature might dispense with all argument or recommendation upon the part of the individual who moves it, I am sure this is the occasion. I am confident there is not one of those I now have the honour of addressing—that there is not a single man in the country, who will not be forward in the anxious wish to promote the comfort of the Sovereign and the dignity of the Crown. The people of England, always attached to monarchy, have heretofore not only maintained their Sovereigns in comfort and dignity, but have ever been desirous to uphold the Throne in honour
l.l.l.l.l.444l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.443l.l.l.l.442l.l.l.l.l.l.441l.l.l.440l.l.l.l.439l.438437l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.436l.l.l.l.l.l.435l.l.Cheers.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.434433l.432l.431430The Chancellor of the Exchequer
481s.s.s.s.s.,s. was at a loss to understand the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, who stated that he was a supporter of the principles of free-trade, and at the same time argued in favour of a system of protecting duties. The measure would add to the price of every article imported into our colonies from either the Canadas or the United States, and would not be of the least benefit to any one. So far from being a benefit to the West-Indian colonies, it would be a great curse, as it would materially increase the price of their food, and Great Britain would have to pay an increased sum for the sugar and for every article imported into this country from the West-Indies. If the right hon. Gentleman really wished to have a scale of duties which might be gradually reduced, he should have commenced at a duty of 5481s.s.s.s.s.,s.Mr. Hume
 wished to inquire whether it were intended to introduce any clause to give the landlord power to cancel the lease on account of sub-letting, when the lease itself was silent upon the subject. In the bill of last Session, for mitigating the severity of the Sub-letting Act, there was a clause of this kind, and, if a similar one were inserted in the present bill, he should give it every species of opposition, for itMr. O' Connell
 was favourable to the principle of the Subletting Act, though he thought amendment was necessary. The attempt made last Session was not at all a successful one; but if the right hon. Gentleman should bring in a fair Bill, his humble assistance should be heartily at his service.Mr. Jephson
 thought, that the Bill should be so framed as to make it applicable to both parts of the United Kingdom, for the law of England was as defective on this subject as possible. In the time of Elizabeth, a case was argued, called the Tempest case, reported by Lord Coke, in which the Judges came to a decision, not since overturned, under protection of which contracts had been repeatedly evaded, and the intention of the law defeated. If it be stipulated between the landlord and the tenant, that the latter shall not assign without the leave of the former, the law said, that if the landlord once give leave to assign, afterwards the tenant shall have the power of assigning to whom and as often as he pleases. This operated unfavourably to the tenant, because it prevented his landlord from granting him indulgences he might otherwise be inclined to grant. The state of the law had been complained of by that great Judge, Lord Eldon, as well as by many others, and the sooner it was amended the better. He wished, therefore, that the law should be made applicable to both parts of the United Kingdom. It was not intended by it to give any advantage to the landlords of Ireland which those of England did not possess.Mr. Campbell
 wished to express his satisfaction that the Bill was not to have a retrospective operation.Lord Killeen
 said, that it was decidedly his intention to bring forward the Motion to which his noble friend alluded, after Christmas.Mr. Poulett Thomson
 objected to the total repeal of the Oath of Abjuration, and hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press that as a necessary part of his measure.Sir Charles Wetherell
 wished to correct a mistake. He did not say that he should disapprove of this law if its operation were to be purely prospective. His objection was, to a law compelling a deviation from a legal contract when made. Prospective contracts, he admitted, were a legitimate subject for legislation, but not contracts already made. If the law were only to operate prospectively, then every man would be put on his guard, and could make such contracts as he wished, and as the law prescribed; but nothing could be more unjust than to make a law giving an effect to existing contracts different from that which they had when first entered into. He had no objection to make the law as strict as possible for the future. The hon. member for Limerick did not seem to understand the Act; and certainly he had not understood his (Mr. O'Connell's) objection to it; which was, that the measure did not allow parties to make contracts as they wished. If the landlord chose to give up his remedy by distress, he might sublet, but, not otherwise. The waiver by parole, as it is called, was also taken away. He admitted, that the original contract ought to be strictly performed; but at the same time the landlord ought not to be prevented from underletting. The question he had put had been fully and satisfactorily answered. The spirit, too, in which it had been answered induced him to hope, that when the House came to investigate the details of the measure, it would be able to make it satisfactory to the country. He trusted, however, that it would not be passed in the spirit of a restrictive law.Mr. O'Connell
493 begged to remark, that an account was taken in 1635, of the amount of the Irish population, which was then stated at 3,000,000; fifty years afterwards, when the calculation was made by Sir William Petty, the population had diminished nearly to the amount of 2,000,000. The decrease took place during the civil wars in Ireland, and suggested a frightful reflection as to the sanguinary character of those wars. Sir William Petty's accounts, however, were mere calculations. No census was taken until 1815. The gross numbers were given, but the results were not sufficiently accurate. The last census was greatly under the real amount. This was demonstrated by what afterwards occurred. At the time when great distress was felt in Ireland, and subscriptions made to relieve the sufferers, the number actually relieved in the county of Mayo, greatly exceeded, by no less than 35,000 persons, the total amount of the recorded population of that country. Of course, none of the better classes received charitable assistance; so that in that county it is demonstrated that the census fell short of the real population by at least 50,000 persons. He should suggest that this census should be made to discriminate, which the former did not, the religion of the inhabitants, so that the number professing different religions might be known. There were reasons—political reasons—why this should not be done in the last census; but those reasons were now totally at an end. No improper, and, indeed, no political motive could be gratified now by obtaining this information. An attempt
493Mr. O'Connell
491 suggested, that if a man had a large farm, he would require some persons to assist him, and some means should be devised to enable such a person to give his cottier tenants a small portion of
491Mr. Ruthven
 observed, that he had not been set right on the night before.Mr. Brougham
: I contend that the words of the Speech imply everything.Mr. Brougham
466465 said, that he not only forgave the right hon. Baronet for the charge which he had brought against him, but he also thanked him for having kept him (Mr. Brougham) to hear what he certainly had never heard before. He would not say that he was not grossly ignorant, but he was then, at least, less ignorant than he had been before that evening. Until then he had not known that there was any man who supposed that such a charge could be made against him. The right hon. Baronet, however, had charged him with ignorance—not respecting anything of which he (Mr. Brougham) had spoken, but respecting that to which he had not made the most distant allusion. He would ask, did any hon. Member hear him allude to the speeches of former Kings? yet the hon. Baronet had produced two Kings' Speeches to convict him of gross ignorance—ignorance of what?— of Kings' Speeches. He (Mr. Brougham) had complained of the phrase "without reserve," which occurs in the last Speech from the Throne; and the right hon. Baronet had endeavoured, in his speech, to show that the phrase "without reserve," in that speech, was used in the same meaning as the word "entirely" in the Speech of a former King. He (Mr. Brougham) knew well, that when the late King, in his Speech in 1820, placed the hereditary revenues of the Crown at the disposal of that House, those of the Duchy of Lancaster and of the Duchy of Cornwall were reserved from that surrender. But what misled him (Mr. Brougham) and other lawyers, in respect to the meaning of the Speech with which the present Session was opened, was this: When Ministers came down to the House, and said in the name of the Crown, that his Majesty placed at the disposal of the House, "without reserve," his interest in the hereditary revenues, and in those funds which may be derived from his Droits of the Admiralty, &c. &c. or from any casual revenues, either in his foreign possessions, or in the United Kingdom—when he and many others heard that, they could not suppose that anything else was meant but that his Majesty gave up those revenues
466465Mr. Brougham
459458laughter.Some Member cried, hear, hear!457l.l.l.456l.l.455: I cannot pretend to say, that I have yet formed a decided opinion upon the great question before the House, but I am inclined to agree with my noble friend near me (Lord Althorp) that even after the promised papers are in our hands further information will be necessary. The subject is of the utmost importance in itself, and in connexion with others — in its constitutional relations, and, above all, on account of the interests it excites among our constituents. Until we have full knowledge, we ought not to proceed to anything like a final adjudication: I therefore am disposed to support the proposition of my noble friend for a committee, and the reason urged by my hon. friend (Mr. Hume) is precisely the ground on which I arrive at that conclusion. We are making an arrangement which is to last during the life of his Majesty, and however we may hereafter find that we have been in the wrong, we may be told—and justly told—that it is too late to reopen the contract: the bargain has been made, and until the demise of the Crown it cannot be altered. As I confidently hope, and earnestly pray, that that event may be long postponed, it becomes more and more our imperative duty not to enter, as it were, blindfold into such a permanent arrangement. The last arrangement was made, I believe, in the year 1815: the people are now more awake to their own interests, but I am sorry to say that they have not the same confidence either in the Executive Government or in the Parliament, which they evinced at the date I have mentioned. lean only say, that I heartily concur in the objections stated by my noble friend; the simplifying of the accounts would be a vast improvement.
459458laughter.Some Member cried, hear, hear!457l.l.l.456l.l.455Mr. Brougham
492 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for taking an Account of the Population of Ireland. The Bill would be, in substance, the same as the Bill passed for taking an account of the population of Ireland in 1815, the returns under which were made in 1821. He proposed to make a few alterations in it, agreeably to the suggestions of his hon. friend the member for Queen's County, who had paid great attention to the subject. He had given his valuable assistance in framing the Bill, and it would probably effect its object more completely, and with more regularity, than the former Bill. It might be interesting to Gentlemen to know the increase which had taken place in the population of Ireland since the first returns were made on the subject. By the first known account of the population of that country furnished by Sir William Petty, in 1672—the population was 1,100,000. In 1731, a census was taken by an order of the Irish House of Lords, and then the population was 2,010,000. In 1785, by the population returns then made, it appeared that the people amounted to 2,845,000. In 1812 an Act was passed for taking an account of the population, and it was supposed that, from various causes, the returns made under that Act, which were made by the Grand Juries, were not quite correct. Those returns were made in 1813, and by them the population amounted to 5,537,000. But the system then pursued was so inefficient that no great reliance could be placed on the result. In 1815, another Act was passed for the same purpose, but the care of taking the census was given into the hands of the Bench of Magistrates in counties instead of those of the Grand Juries. The bench of Magistrates, with the valuable aid of the Assistant-barristers, made the returns under the Act in 1821. Those returns were supposed to be very accurate, and by them the population was estimated at 6,801,827. This was supposed to have
492 Sir Henry Hardinge
489 had no doubt that the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman might, with great propriety, be adopted; but he was not sufficiently acquainted with the law of the two countries, to say at present that they ought to be
489Sir Henry Hardinge
469l. was glad that allusion had been made to certain placards, in which it was mentioned that a noble relative of his was in the receipt of a sum of public money, to the amount of 62,000469l.Lord James Stuart
 replied, that every consideration had been given to the bill, to accommodate it as far as possible to the views of all parties.Mr. Doherty
l. presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of Athlone, praying for an inquiry into the distribution of Corporation Funds in Ireland. The hon. Member observed, that he knew no subject which more deserved the attention of the House. In consequence of the mismanagement of the funds in question, half a million of people were in a state of utter destitution. He had ascertained that the value of 10,000l.Mr. Leader
480**entrepôxt*479478 said, it was in the full recollection of the observation, that he who commences with asserting a principle generally concludes with supporting an exception, that he declaring himself an advocate of free-trade, stood up in support of the measure before the House. The principle on which it was founded was in perfect accordance with the principles of commercial policy pursued for the last few years by this country. The hon. Baronet treated the present measure as if it consisted in increasing the protecting duties from a low to a high rate. But what were the circumstances of the case? At present there was a state of positive prohibition, and it was proposed, in the place of this system, to adopt, in the first instance, a scale of high protecting duties, which it would be possible to lower as circumstances required. Nothing would induce him to support the permanent imposition of protecting duties in any branch of trade or manufacture; but he defended this measure, because a transition from a state of prohibition to one of freedom ought to be gradual. The adoption of protecting duties was for a time necessary for the protection of those interests which had grown up under a state of prohibition. He had
480**entrepôxt*479478Mr. Courtenay
488 asked if it were the same bill that was brought in last year? [Sir Henry Hardinge replied no.] Then the House could not be aware of its nature. He was against the proposition for repealing the Sub-letting Act, because as far as the principle of binding both parties to their engagements went, it had his entire concurrence; but he also concurred in the necessity of amending the Act, and he would mention two points in which that was requisite. In the first place nothing could be more absurd than the clause respecting devises, which enabled a man, by will, to violate a contract after his death to which he was bound during his lifetime. The other point was the objection, and the only one entitled to a moment's consideration—that the Act had a retrospective effect, although that was a point on which the learned Gentlemen on the two sides of the House were not exactly agreed. As a landlord and a friend to the principle of the bill, he asked no more than that contracts entered into before the passing of the bill should not be affected by it, whilst those made since should come under the operation of the law. There was great weight in the objection made by individuals who had leased property under the law of waiver as it stood before the passing of the new enactment. If these two questions were set at rest, he was convinced that, on all sides, there would be an entire concurrence in the principle of the bill. [Mr. O'Connell intimated his dissent.] From what the hon. and learned Gentleman said the other evening he thought that such would be his opinion. He understood him to say that if all contracts entered into previously to the passing of the bill were left under the former state of law, and to the protection which the tenant had, by the doctrine of waiver, as then interpreted, there could be no possible objection to giving the landlord and tenant the protection of the Subletting Act, as to contracts made since it was passed. That was the argument used by the hon. Gentleman the other night, and it would certainly be a fair principle to act upon. The object of this bill bad been much misrepresented in Ireland,
488Mr. Spring Rice
468no, no!467 said, that when the hon.
468no, no!467Sir R. Peel
464l.,l.463l.l.462461: And I contend that they do not. I suppose, that, as a lawyer, the hon. Gent, will not deny that the construction of particular phrases is to be collected from Acts of the Legislature, and I refer him to the language of the Statute I George 4th, to establish that it was never intended that the accounts of the revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster should annually be laid before Parliament, like the accounts of the surplus revenues of Gibraltar, &c. which it was provided should be presented before the 24th March in each year. Here, then, is an Act of the Legislature, giving an express construction to the words "casual revenues;" and I think I have shewn that these words cannot be held to apply to the revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster. I contend, therefore, confidently that his Majesty's Ministers cannot be justly charged with gross ignorance and stupidity for not including those revenues in words to which former Speeches and Acts of Parliament have given a definite meaning, excluding those revenues. It will be more convenient on a future occasion to discuss the proposition of the noble Lord for a Select Committee; though neither he nor the hon. and learned Member seems to have made up his mind whether that committee shall have power only to examine accounts, or to send for persons, papers, and records; but let me tell them that the distinction is most material. The whole speech of the hon. member for Middlesex shows that he would not be satisfied unless the committee had power to investigate the necessity of the most minute items of expenditure; nor do I see, whatever object the noble Lord may have in view, how that could be otherwise answered,
464l.,l.463l.l.462461Sir R. Peel
 was disposed to concur in different parts of the bill, but he agreed in the objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, to the total repeal of the Oath of Abjuration.Sir R. Peel
460: The observations of the hon. and learned Member seem to me to call for some reply—[Mr. Brougham here rose, as if to leave the House, but Sir R. Peel requested him to remain.]—It is certainly unusual for a Member to charge a Government with sheer stupidity and gross ignorance; and when a vindication is about to be attempted, for him to leave the House: but I do not ask the hon. and learned Member to remain in his place that he may hear my answer, but that he may listen to a charge against him of gross ignorance on his part. I did not think it right to accuse him in his absence, and I therefore entreated him to retain his seat. He asserts that Government have been guilty of gross ignorance and want of the common knowledge of grammatical construction—that they also had the intention to mislead, inasmuch as they have put into the King's mouth a proposal to resign all interest in the hereditary revenues of the Crown, and thus exciting an expectation that the revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster, among others, were to be relinquished. The hon. and learned Gentleman contends that there ought to have been contained in the speech a distinct explanation that his Majesty did not mean to relinquish his interest in the hereditary revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster; and with a view to this point, it is material to refer to the language of former Sovereigns, when they have invited the settlement of their Civil List. George 4th relinquished his interest in the hereditary revenues of the Crown; but he did not en that account give up his interest in the revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster; on the contrary, he expressly retained them, and in his Speech to Parliament in 1820, he said—"The first object to which your attention will be directed is, the provision to be made for the support of the Civil Government, and of the honour and dignity of the Crown—I leave entirely at your disposal my interest in the Hereditary Revenues." George 4th did not, nor did he mean to relinquish the revenues of the Duchy of Lancaster, and nobody supposed that he did mean it; therefore, it is not the gross ignorance of his Majesty's Government that is to be complained of; but the gross ignorance of the hon. and learned Gentleman, which has led him to
460Sir Robert Peel
484483482 observed, it was not clear to him that those hon. Members were right who advocated what they called the principles of free trade, nor was he satisfied that those who so strenuously argued in favour of that system, understood the subject better than their opponents. It might appear better to the hon. member for Middlesex and the hon. member for Bridgnorth, that these principles should be carried into execution, but he doubted whether the result would be beneficial. At any rate those hon. Members were not justified in arrogating to their side of the question all the good sense of the House. They so eulogized the advocates of free trade, and designated them so repeatedly as enlightened, that it appeared as if they meant to insinuate that all who opposed those principles were ignorant and stupid. The history of past ages would not warrant them in forming such a conclusion. In the United States of America—a country which was, in fact, treading in our footsteps (and it was not improbable that in the course of a few ages, she would attain an eminence and rank among nations equal to any on record) in that country the principle had not been acted upon to the extent stated by hon. Members. Many of the most eminent men of America had been the advocates of
484483482Mr. Robinson
447 addressed the House in support of the observations of the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat. He was compelled however to acknowledge that like the noble Lord he felt the greatest difficulty in following the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. The saving he mentioned was very trifling, and the House ought to recollect that the estimate of the Civil List for 1820, which had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman, was founded on that made in 1815, which was monstrously extravagant. The expenditure of the country was then altogether too large; and prices were much higher than at present. It seemed to him impossible for the House to come to a decision on the merits of the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, without having a further inquiry than it
447Sir H. Parnell
477476 said, he felt it right to raise his voice against the principle of the right hon. Gentleman's measure. He could not view it in any other light than as a revival of a system prejudicial to the country. The country was loaded with protecting duties on protecting duties, and monopolies on monopolies, and distressed, by the millions of money taken out of the pockets of the people, and he could not but feel it to be his duty to take steps to prevent as far as was in his power, the Minister from departing from those principles of commercial policy, which led to the abrogation of monopoly and protecting duties. The right hon. Gentleman called upon the House to retrace its steps with regard to free-trade; and to do what? Why, actually to impose a tax on the raw materials of industry. Was that the way the right hon. Gentleman proposed to carry into practical effect the great guiding principle which the House was bound to maintain—the interest of the empire at large? From the schedule before the House, it appeared that an additional duty was to be imposed on raw materials entering the West-Indies; and as a consequence, the cost of the production of sugar, the West-Indian staple commodity, would be increased, and that increase must act either as a diminution of the planter's profits, or raise the price of sugar to the
477476Sir Henry Parnell
471 took that opportunity of
471Sir H. Parnell
446l.445 said, that he could not vote on this question without making a few observations on the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. In remarking upon this proposed provision for the Civil
446l.445Lord Althorp
490 said, that if the law were applied at all to leases existing in 1826, it would have a retrospective effect, and it ought only to operate upon contracts made after the passing of the Act. If that were done, he could not conceive on what principle any man could say an injustice was committed; for it was saying that, two parties entering into a contract, it would be unjust to enforce that contract. All they ought to see to was, that the contract be enforced according to the meaning of
490Lord Althorp
 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Manchester, praying for the abolition, or considerable reduction of the Duty on Newspaper Stamps and Duties. At present those Stamps and Duties constituted two-thirds of the entire cost of every newspaper. The consequence was, that the newspaper press was monopolised by a few persons, who thereby acquired great power of promoting their own ends by misrepresentation. To reduce the duties would increase the Revenue, in consequence of the much greater number of newspapers that it would cause to be circulated; and at the same time it would give increased employment to paper-makers, printers and others. His hon. friend, the member for Dover, had last Session intimated his intention of making a motion on this subject. He begged to ask him if he meant to make such a motion in the present Session? He owned that he thought it would be highly expedient to adopt a proposition, which, while it was calculated to increase the Revenue, was also calculated to diffuse that sound political and religious knowledge which was most essential to the maintenance of good government and social order.Lord Morpeth
l.l.470 considered, that the observations of his right hon. friend (Sir R. Pee!) only further proved the unfortunate choice of topics which the King's Speech exhibited. He had heard it said of some person, as a great proof of ability, that he could speak off a King's Speech without preparation. And certainly, until he heard the Speech with which the present Session had been opened, he did not think that there was any great display of talent in such an exploit. But when he knew that eleven Statesmen had been employed in the production of the Speech so often alluded to in the discussion of that evening, he was enabled to appreciate the merit of the man who could compose a King's Speech without assistance or premeditation. For his own part, he (Lord Palmerston) knew that there were a great number in that House, who had supposed the revenues of the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall to be included in the revenues which his Majesty placed at the disposal of the House. He thought it would have been better for the Ministers (as some of them must have been aware of the general impression respecting that matter) to have come forward to correct the error, instead of relying upon an explanation of technicalities for their excuse. He would not then go into the details of the arrangements which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had that evening explained, for, on so short a consideration as he had been able to give the subject, it was impossible to make up his mind respecting it. But he saw with regret that the Government was not convinced of the propriety of a more simplified arrangement. In the arguments alleged by his right hon. friend (Sir R. Peel), he did not see any satisfactory grounds for adhering to the present arrangement. His right hon. friend denied that the change recommended was of any importance in regard to public economy; but he (Lord Palmerston) was of opinion, that when the expenses of the Civil List were to be settled for the whole reign, it must be of great importance indeed to public economy that the accounts should be considered fully; which he did not think could be done if the expenses were not brought forward under different heads. His right hon. friend expressed doubts whether it would be for the real interest of the Crown that the personal expenses of
l.l.470Lord Palmerston
513 did not wish to take up the time of the House on the present occasion, as an opportunity would soon occur of entering into the subject at length, by an hon. Member on the opposite side of the House having given notice of a motion on the subject. He agreed in the observations of the hon. Member who presented the petition, and would only add a very few words in support of its prayer. He agreed with that hon. Gentleman in thinking that the coal-tax was much more oppressive than any other tax, and affected the comforts of the people to a much greater extent. At the same time, it was a most unjust tax, because it was only paid by persons living in certain districts, and on coals carried coastwise. He believed that it was the only tax on an absolute necessary of life which affected all classes of the people, and fell particularly heavy on the lower orders. No measure could afford so much benefit to the people as the repeal of this tax. This oppressive tax was not only paid by the people of this country, but also by those of Ireland, where it was most severely felt. The hon. member for Waterford would, therefore, he was sure, lend the assistance of his talents to get it abolished. It was a lax of which the collection was attended with a great expense; for he understood that Custom-house establishments were kept up at several of the smaller ports, solely for the purpose of collecting it, If, therefore, it was re-
513Mr. Hodgson
 hoped, that if any alteration were made in this tax, care would be taken that the coal-owners in the internal parts of the country should not be injured. Hon. Gentlemen should remember, that the owners of coal-mines in the North possessed advantages which those in other parts did not. In the county which he had the honour to represent, important interests were involved, and due care ought to be taken before any change was made, so that no injury should be done.Mr. Cresset Pelham
514 begged leave to contradict all the assertions set forth in the petition, and said, it was fortunate that the gentleman alluded to was in town to clear himself from the charges preferred against him. He denied that the land was overlet, and he stated that he had the authority of that gentleman for saying, that he never had suspected the tenants on the estate of being Ribbonmen, and that there had only been one case of a tenant having been ejected from the land, and that was in consequence of his having proceeded upon false information, and refusing to pay his rent without previously having a receipt. All the disturbance which had occurred in these parishes arose from the improper interference of the Priest, and inflammatory harangues delivered from the altar of his chapel. A tenant, on being applied to lately for his rent, had refused to pay it, declaring that he had been ordered not to pay it by the Priest, and that he would sooner go through hell-fires than disobey his reverence. In short, the tenants had been encouraged to pay no rent so long as the gentleman alluded to continued agent. In conclusion, he expressed his hope, that the learned Gentleman would for the future examine the truth of
514The Marquis of Chandos
 said, he had not heard of the gentleman's death until that moment, and had not, therefore, turned his attention to the subject.Sir R. Peel
 presented a petition from Cupar, Fife, in favour of Reform, and especially in favour of Reform in the Representation or rather non-representation of the Scotch boroughs. He declared, that he had been both astonished and hurt at hearing that a noble Duke had said, in another place, that the country was satisfied with the present, system, and that he was not prepared to agree to any proposition for Reform. If the noble Duke really had made any such declaration, and supposed, indeed, that the people were satisfied with the present system, he (Sir R. Ferguson) must say, that the noble Duke was quite ignorant of the feelings of the people. By such a declaration the people would not be stopped, but would press forward with double zeal in the cause of Reform; for he felt bound to say, that, in his belief, there was but one opinion as to the necessity of Reform from one end of the kingdom to the other.Sir R. Ferguson
 presented six petitions from Perth, Arbroath, Brechin, and Stockport, for Reform and reduction of Taxation. The boroughs from which these petitions came, were some of the worst specimens of our Scotch boroughs. The petitions, however, were most respectably signed, but he believed that some of the places from which they were sent would send no more, unless Ministers exhibited a disposition to afford relief to the petitioners. It was with deep regret that he heard of the declaration of a noble Duke in another place, and from that declaration he anticipated a great deal of mischief. He declared, that the universal wish of the people of Scotland was for the ballot.Mr. Hume
 denied, that any such feeling existed in Scotland in favour of the ballot. He denied, too, that the people wished the reform of which the hon. Member had talked; he absolutely denied, that they wanted reform in the Representation; at least that was not the general feeling in Scotland.Mr. Dundas
517 answered that the majority of five was three, and that having Montrose and Arbroath with him, he only wanted Brechin to complete that, majority. In that way Brechin had returned him to Parliament. He denied, however, that it had ever done so corruptly. He did not, indeed, owe much gratitude to the self-constituted electors of Brechin as they were against him, but were afraid of their fellow-townsmen if they rejected him. The hon. member for Edinburgh had denied that the people in Edinburgh wanted Reform in Parliament. He would ask that hon. Member if he had the courage to risk the decision of that question by a
517Mr. Hume
 said, the hon. member for Middlesex was mistaken, when he said that there were only forty electors for Edinburgh; but he knew nothing of the Constitution of Edinburgh, and therefore he made bold assertions. It was ignorance that made him bold. Among his (Mr. Dundas's) electors, were fourteen persons who were chosen by the people, as elders or deacons, and that was a public election as far as it went.Mr. Dundas
5181. observed, that although he might be almost afraid of the censure of the hon. Member opposite, for his ignorance exhibited in what he was about to say, he could not avoid feeling a wish to state one fact on this subject. The last time that the people of Scotland had the opportunity of pronouncing their opinion on the question of reform was in the year 1826, when the present Chief Baron of Scotland brought that question under the consideration of the House. The people of Scotland then showed, that there were in Edinburgh 10,000 persons rated to the annual amount of 55181.Sir J. Graham
 affirmed, that it stood where it did. Fourteen of these persons were popularly elected, and they conduced to the election of the others.Mr. Dundas
 said, that the Council influenced the election of the whole thirty-three, and that the people of Edinburgh had no more to do with the election of the hon. Member than had the people of Japan.Mr. Hume
 said, the fourteen had a share in the election.Mr. Dundas
 observed, that he could find no instance of Election Petitions being decided before a short recess, and many instances of petitions deferred till after such a recess; and as it would occasion great inconvenience to keep witnesses in town for a long period, from so distant a place us the north of Scotland, he moved that the consideration of the election petition against him should be postponed from, the 2nd of December to some future day.Mr. S. Wortley
 contended, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Wortley) had laid no special circumstances before the House to warrant a departure from the general rule, as applied to election petitions.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 would have consented to a motion to defer the consideration of the petition in question for a few days: he argued that it was one of the earliest duties of the House to ascertain who ought or ought not to sit as its Members, and that it would operate most unjustly to the parties, if election petitions generally were postponed until after the holidays.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 withdrew his Motion.Mr. S. Wortley
 wished to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, relative to the incendiary proceedings in several of the Home Counties. They had commenced in Kent, and had been alarmingly extended, till they had unfortunately reached the county to which he belonged. The Magistrates believed, that at present they had not sufficient power to swear in special constables prospectively; they could only swear them in when tumults occurred, and then only locally. He would beg leave, therefore, to suggest, that a short bill, for a short term, might be advantageously brought in, to constitute a constabulary force to perform the duty of watch and ward, by which a great deal of mischief might be prevented. He wished to know, therefore, whether the right hon. Gentleman had taken into his consideration any measure of that nature, or any other that might be effectual for the end in view.Mr. H. Sumner
522"But we owe it to truth, to justice, and to policy, to declare, that while we are aware that the existing discontents are fomented by artful and unprincipled agitators, for the worst and most mischievous of purposes, we are unfortunately convinced, that in the perversion of some of our most valuable institutions, in the unequal distribution of public burthens, in the prodigality of public expenditure, in the arbitrary character of some of our laws, and in the corruptions and abuses existing in many departments of Church and State, are to be found the original and extensive sources of dissatisfaction and complaint; we are, therefore, persuaded, that by a prudent and constitutional reform of admitted abuses alone (and especially by a revision of our present system of parliamentary representation) can the designs of the disaffected be defeated, and tranquillity be permanently restored and maintained.""Possessing, in our property, and in our families, an unequivocal stake in the preservation of social order, we declare our readiness, at any and every hazard, to exert our utmost efforts for the suppression of tumult and disorder, and for the protection of persons and property from violence."We declare in the first place, in the most solemn manner, our firm and devoted loyalty to oar excellent King, and our attachment to the principles of the Constitution, and to the political and sacred institutions of our country..— Arrangements for establishing associations for self-defence have, I know, been made in several parts of the County of Middlesex; and in the parish of St. Anne, Limehouse, at a meeting convened by advertisement, the following Resolution was very recently adopted:—
522"But we owe it to truth, to justice, and to policy, to declare, that while we are aware that the existing discontents are fomented by artful and unprincipled agitators, for the worst and most mischievous of purposes, we are unfortunately convinced, that in the perversion of some of our most valuable institutions, in the unequal distribution of public burthens, in the prodigality of public expenditure, in the arbitrary character of some of our laws, and in the corruptions and abuses existing in many departments of Church and State, are to be found the original and extensive sources of dissatisfaction and complaint; we are, therefore, persuaded, that by a prudent and constitutional reform of admitted abuses alone (and especially by a revision of our present system of parliamentary representation) can the designs of the disaffected be defeated, and tranquillity be permanently restored and maintained.""Possessing, in our property, and in our families, an unequivocal stake in the preservation of social order, we declare our readiness, at any and every hazard, to exert our utmost efforts for the suppression of tumult and disorder, and for the protection of persons and property from violence."We declare in the first place, in the most solemn manner, our firm and devoted loyalty to oar excellent King, and our attachment to the principles of the Constitution, and to the political and sacred institutions of our country.Mr. Hume
: — I did not.Mr. Hume
 hoped the House would allow him to explain. The right hon. Baronet had certainly mistaken or misrepresented what he had said. At least, nothing which had fallen from him could have been sufficient to excite much irritation.Mr. Hume
 said, that it was not the first time that Gentleman had attributed to him language which be had not used, and meanings which he never intended to convey. He could not patiently stand by whilst words were put in his mouth which he had never thought of using. He would repeat what the right hon. Baronet had misrepresented. He had said, that no Act of Parliament would put down the dissatisfaction of the country, unless Ministers showed a sincere determination to retrench. But he had said nothing to countenance the incendiaries. He was as anxious as the Ministers themselves to quell disorder, and to promote the peace of the country.Mr. Hume
524 said, that with respect to the observations made by the hon. member for Surrey (Mr. Denison), he felt
524Mr. H. Sumner
 moved, "that the Order of the Day be read, that the House do go into a Committee upon the Civil List;" whereuponThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
532 said,
532The Chancellor of the Exchequer
540l.l.l.l.l.539538l.537l.l.l.l.536l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.535l.534533.—The hon. Gentleman now stated that it was not his intention that the proposed committee should have power to examine persons with respect to the items and accounts laid before it, but merely that it should report its opinion on the Civil List. Then, he asked the hon. Baronet, not only in reference to the common sense of the matter, but in reference to opinions expressed by authorities which the hon. Member must revere, because he had long acted with the individuals who had expressed those opinions—he asked the hon.
540l.l.l.l.l.539538l.537l.l.l.l.536l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.535l.534533The Chancellor of the Exchequer
541 said, that Ministers having laid before the House, as was customary on former occasions, an Estimate of what appeared to them to be necessary for the Civil List, he could see no reason why the documents connected with the subject should not be submitted to a Select Committee. That certainly was the most commodious way in which the House could become acquainted with all the details of the question. He was not aware of the use or benefit of that sort of mystery which was attempted to be thrown over this important subject. How, he asked, could it be advantageous to the Crown, or satisfactory to the country? In his opinion, this subject ought to be clearly brought within the sphere of the intelligence of that House—as, indeed, every thing connected with the finance of the country ought to be. It was the more necessary that this subject should undergo investigation in a committee, because, according to the showing of the right hon. Gentleman himself, there was a new classification of the Civil List, with reference to certain points. They were told that some parts of the Civil List were to be taken away, and that certain new arrangements were to be made. If that were so, where could those alterations be so well considered as in a committee? There could not possibly be a subject more fit to be investigated and determined by Gentlemen above stairs. The point which the right hon. Gentleman last noticed had reference to foreign Ministers. He knew
541Mr. Bankes
546 said, it had been contended, that, on former occasions, no such committee as that now called for was appointed. Now, allowing that argument to take its full course, he should only say, in answer to it, that it was no reason, because preceding Houses of Parliament had neglected their duty, that the present Parliament should therefore neglect its duty. But they were told that no committee was appointed at the accession of George 3rd. Why, he asked, was that? Because one gross sum was voted for the total amount of the Civil List, and no statement was laid before Parliament. The Parliament, at that time, was perfectly ignorant as to what part of the grant was applied to the personal splendor of the Monarch; what part to the salary of foreign ministers, or what part to defray the expense of public functionaries at home. At that period it was not the custom for Parliament to inquire into the subject. The first instance of inquiry was that introduced by Mr. Burke, when he divided the Civil List into different classes. A new principle was then established; and from that period, and from that period only, were they to date the examination of the Civil List. At the commencement of the last reign, a proposition for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the Civil List was negatived. When, however, his Majesty Geo. 3rd died, it was necessary to place the establishment at Windsor on a new footing. With that view a committee upstairs was appointed. He (Mr. Wynn) served on that committee, with his hon. friend the member for Dorsetshire. That committee had not power to send for papers, persons, and records; but Lord Castlereagh was a member of it; and it was but doing justice to his noble friend to say, that he gave every information in his power. He allowed every member of that committee to come down to the House, and to use the information which he had received in the committee as a ground for requiring more if it were necessary. That
546Mr. C. W. Wynn
l.l.l.l.l.547 who rose amidst loud cries of "Question," said, he could assure Gentlemen that he did not mean to detain them long. His right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had placed on so clear a ground, the reasons which ought to induce the House to adopt the course which he recommended on this occasion—he had so fully supported his proposition by undeniable precedents and conclusive arguments—that it was quite unnecessary for him to enter at any length on a repetition of that which had been so ably stated by his right hon. friend. The hon. Baronet had taken a very short way of enforcing his proposition. He had laid down a principle perfectly new, and to him it appeared no less strange than it was novel. The hon. Baronet contended, not that all precedents ought to be blindly followed, but that they ought to be blindly avoided. The hon. Baronet said—"Because these precedents are established, let us shun them—let us adopt some other system, of which parliamentary history affords no example." Now, if the hon. Baronet carried that doctrine further, if he introduced it when great constitutional principles were debated, it must inevitably lead to revolution. He, however, contended, that they were bound to look to precedents; if they did not, they were likely to plunge into the deepest confusion. They ought now to pursue the same course which had heretofore been adopted on all occasions when the question of fixing the Civil List came under the cognizance of Parliament. There was a new accession to the Throne, and the acknowledged course was, to make a proper provision for the King without the intervention of a committee. Since the time of William 3rd, the necessary sum was invariably voted without any previous inquiry by a
l.l.l.l.l.547Mr. Herries
 asked the right hon. Secretary of State, whether, after such an expression of the opinion of the House, it was the intention of Ministers to retain their places, and continue to carry on the business of Government.Mr. Hobhouse
cries of "Move, move." said, that he would take an opportunity of bringing the question to an issue [cries of "Move, move."Mr. Hobhouse
 could assure the hon. Member in sincerity, that till he came down to the House to-day, he knew nothing on the subject.Sir R. Peel
 said, he understood the situation was filled up within twenty-four hours after the vacancy.Mr. Stanley
 said, he knew not through what office the appointment was made; but it was not through that of the Secretary for the Home Department.Sir R. Peel
 said, that the Corporation by which the hon. member for Edinburgh was returned, consisted of thirty-three persons, and the election of fourteen of them, it was true, did participate in some degree of a popular election— but nineteen out of the thirty-three were self-elected, so that the whole fabric of popular election, which the imagination of the hon. member for Edinburgh had erected, at once fell to the ground.Mr. Kennedy
 should be perfectly contented if that question were to be decided by the expression of opinion that the petitions to that House would disclose.Mr. Kennedy
516 said, that as this was the first petition that had been presented from Scotland on the subject, he must take the opportunity of observing, that he entreated the House to pay the utmost attention to the wishes of the people of Scotland
516Mr. Kennedy
 said, that he could not help thinking the hon. member for Middlesex had borne rather hardly upon Brechin, to which borough he was mainly indebted for being four times returned to Parliament before he got his present seat, and that it was rather ungrateful in him now to turn round upon that borough, and represent it as one of the worst in Scotland.Sir C. Forbes
 opposed the Motion, contending that the matter in dispute lay in a nutshell, and that the hon. Member would not be able to maintain his seat for five minutes after the meeting of the committee to try the question.Sir C. Forbes
 said, that having ascertained that the signatures to the petition were genuine, he considered that it was his duty to present it. He trusted that he had not gone beyond his duty; and he had not been wanting in the proper courtesy, as he had submitted the petition to the inspection of the nearest relative of the noble Marquis with whom he was acquainted. As to what had been alleged by his Grace's agent respecting the parish Priest, he (Mr. O'Connell) must say, that he considered him incapable of the conduct imputed to him, and he had no doubt that before long he should have a petition from that reverend person in denial of it.Mr. O'Connell
 presented a petition from two parishes in the county of Westmeath, complaining of distress, praying for the introduction of Poor-laws, inveighing against the arbitrary conduct of the Duke of Buckingham's agent, accusing him of endeavouring to sweep the people off the lands — and declaring, that with this view he had sought to denounce them as belonging to the society of Ribbonmen.Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that as the law stood at present, special constables might be sworn in by Magistrates.Mr. Portman
l.l.l.l.l.548l. said, that the noble Lord (Althorp) had stated, that most of the Members had given pledges to their constituents to vote for economy. He had given no pledge, but he felt himself bound as much as those who had, to do his duty by his constituents and the country. He owned he was grievously disappointed at the speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had said that there was a saving of 135,000l.l.l.l.l.548l.Mr. Holme Sumner
 confirmed the learned Gentleman's statement. The hon. and learned member for Waterford certainly had sent him the petition, and he had communicated the contents of it to his noble relative.Lord Nugent
cries of "Now, now," were loudly repeated from the Opposition side;549** said, that the question put by his hon. friend was, under the circumstances, very natural; but he thought at present it was premature. He would take this opportunity of suggesting to his right hon. friend (Sir H. Parnell) whether it would not be better to postpone the appointment of the Com-
cries of "Now, now," were loudly repeated from the Opposition side;549**Mr. Brougham
543l.l.542l. was not aware, that any committee, on an occasion of this kind, when provision was about to be made to support the dignity of the Crown, had ever been appointed to act as assessors. The committee to which the hon. Baronet had particularly alluded was appointed by that House in order to give satisfaction to the country, by endeavouring to effect some relief of its burthens. It was under these circumstances that the appointment of that committee took place. But how did they stand with respect to the Civil List? The amount of that List was settled in 1815, and, from 1820, when his late Majesty succeeded to the Throne, up to the present moment, that Civil List had been found sufficient for its purpose. No debt had been incurred—no additional charge had taken place,—and yet, when his Majesty's Ministers proposed, not an increase to the Civil List as it now stood, but an absolute reduction, as his right hon. friend had shown, of 85,000543l.l.542l.Mr. Calcraft
521in toto,.— As I have the honour to sit here for Surrey, I may, perhaps, with propriety, take this opportunity of saying, that I deeply lament, in common with my hon. friend (if he will allow me to call him so), the events which, during the three last nights, have disgraced the county. Whether the plan suggested be the best, I cannot now decide; but that some plan ought to be adopted to put down these abominable outrages, as the right hon. Secretary justly calls them, promptly and decisively, is quite clear. As to the spirit of the county, over which I have recently travelled, I must deny 521in toto,Mr. Denison
 believed, that some advantage might be gained by making publicly known what is the true state of the law upon that subject. By the Act of 1 Geo. 4th, c. 27, for increasing the power of Magistrates under certain circumstances, it was provided, "that in all cases where it should be made appear, upon the oath of rive respectable householders, that any riot or other breach of the peace had taken place, or was likely to take place, the Magistrates may, by precept in writing, call on any number of householders to act as special constables, whenever they, the Magistrates shall see fit and necessary; in which case it is competent to the Justices at the Sessions to order the expenses incurred by such appointment of constables to be paid by a rate upon the county." Now according to that law, when the Magistrates are satisfied that reasonable grounds exist for suspecting that incendiary acts are meditated, they are empowered to appoint constables, and charge the expenses to the county.Sir R. Peel
 disclaimed any intention to misrepresent the language of the hon. member for Middlesex, or to put a false or an unfair construction upon it. If the hon. Gentleman wished the system of the incendiaries to be put down, he (Sir R. Peel) must say, that the observations of the hon. Gentleman were but little calculated to effect that object, and were, at least, ill-timed.Sir R. Peel
 referred to the Statute of the 1st Geo. 4th, which enabled Magistrates to appoint special constables under certain circumstances. He did not know that it applied to cases where there was a mere apprehension of tumult.Sir Robert Peel
:— I deeply regret that the hon. Member has connected two subjects which have not the most remote relation to each other — dissatisfaction with the Government and the legal and acknowledged means of shewing it — and this infamous system of destroying the property of unoffending individuals. I do not believe that he means what he has been stating; and I form that opinion of the construction of his words from communications he has himself made to me. I appeal to the House, whether it was for the hon. Member to hold out even the shadow of a palliation for the late detestable proceedings by arguing that the Ministers are unpopular?Sir R. Peel
 did not think that he misrepresented the hon. Gentleman. But he must have greatly misunderstood him, if he (Mr. Hume) did not say that "no Act of Parliament which they could pass would have any effect in putting down the disaffection, unless it were accompanied by concessions."Sir R. Peel
523: — The hon. Member said, that the best law to put an end to them was to get rid of the Ministers. Whatever he may do, I acquit those who feel dissatisfied with Government of any participation in these infamous acts. I do not believe that there is a thinking man in the community, however opposed to Government, who would participate in these excesses, and who would not join any confederacy to put an end to them. Whatever cause of dissatisfaction there may be, there is a clear distinction between that dissatisfaction, and outrage such as every man laments. The hon. Member states truly, that voluntary associations have been formed in various situations, to take precautions against crimes of this nature; and I apprehend it will be found that Magistrates are empowered, on any reasonable apprehension of meditated felony, to swear in special constables. I am, however, quite ready to consider any further suggestion, by a temporary law, to render that power more effectual. I earnestly recommend, from my experience, the utmost. local and personal care; for I
523Sir R. Peel
520 replied, I can assure the hon. Member, that four or five hours every day of my life are spent in endeavouring to discover the perpetrators of these atrocious crimes. I know that voluntary associations have been formed to establish watch and ward in many threatened situations; and I believe that nothing but extraordinary local vigilance will provide effectual security against these abominable offenders. No military force, no yeomanry force, can, I am afraid, defeat the wicked designs of men who have some ulterior object in view beyond the mere redress of a local evil: that I firmly
520Sir Robert Peel
 said, he believed, in the first place, that the petition was founded in mistake, for he had reason to suppose that no compulsion was ever used in order to make Protestant soldiers attend the religious ceremonies of Catholics. He had the stronger reason for asserting this to be his belief, since he had lately had a conversation with an officer from Corfu, who assured him that no compulsion whatever had been used with regard to the soldiers attending any religious ceremony.Sir G. Murray
 was understood to intimate, that he proposed to appoint a Committee merely possessed of power to examine the accounts laid before it, but not to call for witnesses.Sir H. Parnell
l.l.l.531530l.l.l.l.l.529l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.528l.l.l.l.l.527l.l.l.l.l.l.526l.l.l. said, he rose, according to the notice which he had given on Friday evening last, to move for an inquiry into the details of the expenditure comprehended in those papers which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had explained to the House as the Civil List. When the Ministers of the Crown came down to that House with a claim for a large sum of money for the public service, he could not be persuaded that such a claim ought not to be thoroughly examined in its details. He was in the House on Friday last; he paid the utmost attention in his power to the statements of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; since that time he had had many opportunities of discussing the subject with other Gentlemen more competent to form a judgment upon such a subject; he had read the papers laid before the House; but by no application had he been able to comprehend the propositions to which he and the House were called on by the right hon. Gentleman to assent. The right hon. Gentleman had announced a saving of 85,000l.l.l.531530l.l.l.l.l.529l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.528l.l.l.l.l.527l.l.l.l.l.l.526l.l.l.Sir H. Parnell
525The House manifested impatience. observed, that in these perilous times, when two branches out of three of the Legislature were new, England could not do otherwise than expect "every man to do his duty." He entirely approved of his Majesty's most gracious Speech. It breathed only peace and economy. He contended that it was warping and twisting the plain meaning of words to say, that his Majesty contemplated interference with other States. He would contend also, against the hon. member for Yorkshire that the terms without reserve, did not convey the meaning that hon. Member attributed to them. [525The House manifested impatience.Sir J. E. Brydges
519 was in favour of delay, and recommended further, that all the election petitions, but those where double returns had been made, should be post-
519Sir M. W. Ridley
545l.l.544 observed, that when the right hon. Gentleman alluded to the fact of Mr. Tierney's having refused, on one occasion, to serve on a committee, because it was not empowered to examine persons, papers, and records, it did not, in his mind, bear strongly against the argument of his hon. friend. He did not mean to urge it personally against his right hon. friend, who had just sat down, that in 1815 he supported the proposition which was then made, and to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had alluded; but he wished to observe, that at the commencement of a new reign, in 1820, his right hon. friend was one of 157 who voted for the extensive motion of Lord John Russell, the object of which was to refer the Civil List Estimates to a committee, that they might be properly examined, though he opposed such a course now. It was his wish and the wish of his honourable friends near him to have a committee, because they were of opinion that they ought to compare the items of the present scale with those which had formerly been submitted to Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman told them, that the proposed reduction was to be found in page 25 of the papers. He knew that; but the House could only see it there in the lump, and not in particulars, as he wished to be made acquainted with it. If they agreed to the reduction without entering into particulars, they were likely to fall into considerable error. It was quite impossible for them, without a more detailed examination than could be had in the House, to arrive at an accurate decision. It was said, that they could come to no satisfactory conclusion unless the committee had leave to send for persons, papers, and records. Such a permission would, he knew, be a very great increase of power; but could no information be afforded, if that power were refused? He admitted, that a great degree of delicacy ought to be observed with respect to certain heads of the Civil List. For his own part, he felt no desire to examine closely into them; on the contrary, he wished not to have such a power. But with respect to many other heads, to which no such feeling of delicacy attached, he
545l.l.544Lord Althorp
 said, that if the right hon. Gentleman's belief was well founded, his explanation must of course be satisfactory.Lord Morpeth
515 presented a petition from the Minister and Inhabitants of Bossiney, Lincolnshire, against compelling Protestant soldiers in the British army, while on foreign service, to take part in the procession and public ceremonies of the Catholic religion. The petitioners declared, that such compulsion was an injury inflicted on tender consciences, and was, therefore, a practice condemned by the Almighty himself. Lord Morpeth admitted, that soldiers on foreign service ought not to show their disrespect to the religion of the country in which they happened to be stationed, but he insisted at the same time, that unless in
515Lord Morpeth
 said, that he was sorry to differ from his hon. friend, with whom he had so often the happiness to agree. He thought, however, that the House would be much better constituted if no placeman had a seat in it, and if Ministers, when present, were only allowed to explain their measures, and not to vote upon them. Among the changes which he expected would shortly take place, one most advisable change, in his opinion, would be the fixing of some limit to the number of persons holding seats in that House, who were dependent on the Crown, or holding naval and military commissions under it. The number of such Members, he believed, was at present nearly equal to a third part of the House, and was a great, enormous, and crying evil. He believed that all naval and military officers considered themselves independent, but when they looked forward to promotion, he was afraid that a change sometimes came over their views of public questions, almost unknown to themselves. He was therefore of opinion that the House would never fairly represent the opinions of the people until all naval, military, and civil officers were prohibited from holding seats in that House. He said, that not an East-India Director,—no, nor a Bank Director either,— no, nor any one holding a monopoly under the Crown, the King's Printer included among the rest,—should be allowed to have a seat in the House. That was his view of things, and be believed that the people went along with him in it. He did not expect to see such a reform carried all at once; but the thing must come gradually down, and he should be happy to see the day when no Minister should have a place in that House, except for the sake of explaining his measures.Mr. Hume
561 availed himself of the opportunity to state the reasons why the Corporation of London had again come forward to petition for Parliamentary Reform. The members of the Common Council, being elected annually, might fairly be. considered as representatives of the feelings of the thousands by whom they were
561Mr. Alderman Wood
 rose amidst loud murmurs, and so much noise, that for some time he was totally inaudible in the gallery. When the hon. Member's voice could be heard, he observed that the Petition from the City of London had met with more complete concurrence than any other petition he recollected.Mr. Alderman Waithman
563 said, I am sure that the respect which I feel for this House is, on all occasions, fully equal to that which has been so fitly and so gracefully expressed by the right hon. Secretary. I do, however, feel the greatest repugnance to putting off the motion which stands for this evening. My noble friend (Lord Althorp) near me is quite right in saying that no question of so much importance has ever before been brought forward when there was a deficiency in the effective government; but my difficulty is this—namely, that no question of so much importance — no
563Mr. Brougham
bona fidebona fide565bona fide presented a Petition from Lord Porchester and Mr. Ogle, and also from several voters for Petersfield, complaining of the return of Sir William Jolliffe, and his brother, Mr. Gilbert Jolliffe. The Petition stated, that the returning officer is nominated by the Leet Jury, a body carefully selected by the steward of the Court, from the friends and dependants of the Lord of the Manor, Mr. Jolliffe; that the returning officer at the last election was a tenant of Mr. Jolliffe's, and his assessor an attorney from Croydon, in Surrey, who acted as Mayor in 1826, at the request of Mr. Jolliffe; that by the partial, illegal, and arbitrary conduct of the Mayor and his Assessor, Lord Porchester and Mr. Ogle were deprived of the votes of many bona fidebona fide565bona fideSir James Macdonald
564 said, I feel it necessary, in order to guard against misunderstanding, to trespass again for a few moments upon the attention of the House. I am not apprehensive of anything I have said being misunderstood here: but in order to guard against any misapprehension going forth to the country, I may be allowed to notice one expression which fell from the noble Lord (Althorp) opposite. I know very well what the noble Lord meant, but out of doors the expression to which I allude may possibly be misconstrued. The noble Lord said, "There is no longer any Administration in existence." This is, no doubt, in effect true; but it ought to be generally known and understood, that until my successor is appointed, I am in
564Sir Robert Peel
 said, my explanation was intended to prevent misconception out of doors. I was well aware that the noble Lord had not misunderstood me.Sir R. Peel
562 rose and spoke as follows:—
562Sir Robert Peel
 said, in consequence of the communication which we have just received from the right hon. Baronet, I am sure that every Gentleman will feel that it would be most improper and most incorrect to undertake any serious and important debate under such circumstances. There is no longer any Administration in existence, and I hope that my hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) will not submit to the House this evening a question of so much importance as that of which he has given notice. In my memory, no important question has ever been discussed under such circumstances; and I trust, therefore, that for this reason, as well as for the advantage of the question, my hon. friend will comply with the suggestion I now make to him.Lord Althorp
 said, I assure the right hon. Secretary that I did not misunderstand him. God forbid that I should have imputed to him any disposition to allow the public service to suffer injury in consequence of the changes which are about to take place. All I meant was, that under such circumstances, motions of so much importance as that of my hon. and learned friend, have never been discussed in Parliament.Lord Althorp
567 said, it would not be necessary that he should detain the House many minutes with the reasons that had induced him to give notice of the Motion that stood on the paper. Late occurrences had, however, furnished him with a new argument in favour of the Resolution he should submit to the House. In consequence of the resignation of the late Ministry, a considerable time must elaspse before the Members who were to compose the new Administration could take their seats in the House. This would cause delay, and hon. Members generally looked forward to a long recess. It would be impossible for the House to proceed with any effective business in the absence of Ministers, and he did not see why Members should be kept in town for the mere purpose of attending election committees. There were many election petitions which would not be heard at all; but the hearing of some was fixed for an early day, and these
567Sir M. W. Ridley
 thought, the Gentlemen who expected a very long recess at Christmas would find themselves mistaken. Up to that recess, whatever it might be, the House must sit constantly, and he could not anticipate any long recess when he saw the state in which the money votes stood. If the House did sit, what more important business could be brought before it than these petitions? He thought that, if this Resolution were passed, much inconvenience would result to the House, and he was sure it would be a great hardship upon those concerned in the fate of the petitions. There were, in all, sixty-eight petitions, and it was pretty certain that, although they would not all be heard, there would be at least fifty-five ballots. It appeared to him, that to agree to this Resolution, would be to delay justice in cases which required the most speedy adjudication that the House could make.Mr. C. W. Wynn
568 was decidedly opposed to this Motion. He thought it a matter of the utmost necessity that they should fill up their numbers; and entertaining such an opinion, he could not but be astonished, both at the proposition itself, and still more at the reasons given in its favour. "What," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "do we want with the presence of the Ministers on election petitions? What do we want with them? We can do as well (I speak it with all possible respect of any future Ministry); but I say we can do as well without them as with them. I have nothing to do with them except in the respect I bear them, and except as a Member of this House. I state this for the information of those who may feel any interest in the matter." The Motion of his hon. friend involved a matter relating to one of the most important questions that could occupy the attention of that House. It was a question who had and who had not a right to sit there; and to delay determining such a question might possibly be, in fact, allowing men to sit
568Mr. Brougham
 concurred in the view taken by the hon. and learned Member, and he meant to oppose the Motion.Sir E. Carrington
 was also decidedly opposed to the Resolution. There could be no necessity for the presence of Ministers, since, by virtue of their office, they were allowed, by Act of Parliament, to absent themselves on such occasions.Mr. Littleton
569 was of opinion that all persons connected with election petitions should precisely understand the time when the committees upon such petitions were to be ballotted for. If that were
569Mr. Portman
 was opposed to delay.Mr. Cresset Pelham
in commendam,pro tempore,congé d'elireGazette said, before the House decided the question, he wished to take that opportunity to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir R. Peel) relative to a motion of his (Sir J. Graham's), the notice for which stood in the Order-book of the House for to-morrow evening. He had observed by the in commendam,pro tempore,congé d'elireGazetteSir J. Graham
congé d'elire,571 observed, that the assurance just given by the right hon. Gentleman, if given in private, would be quite satisfactory and convincing, but such an assurance before that House was still more convincing, as a promise was now distinctly given that no artifice would be resorted to to prevent the sense of the House from being taken upon this question, if the consecration of the Bishop of Exeter should take place while the right hon. Gentleman held the Seals of the Home Department. He (Sir James Graham) did not wish that any departure should be made from the established usage until the consecration. He believed, however, that
congé d'elire,571Sir James Graham
 expressed a hope, on behalf of his relative (Dr. Phillpotts) that the hon. Baronet would bring forward his Motion to-morrow, in order to afford Dr. Phillpotts the earliest opportunity for vindicating himself.Mr. Phillpotts
 found it impossible to comply with the request.Sir J. Graham
pro tempore,570in commendam.in commendam,congé d'elirein commendam;congé d'elire said, that his Majesty's pleasure had been taken respecting the issuing of the pro tempore,570in commendam.in commendam,congé d'elirein commendam;congé d'elireSir R. Peel
574 presented a Petition from the Scot and Lot Payers of Dartmouth, complaining that all the inhabitants were not permitted to vote, though that right was given to them by a charter of Edward 3rd; but that the right was claimed exclusively by a Mayor, twelve Aldermen,
574Lord Ebrington
 knew, that some of the allegations in the Petition were founded in fact; he regretted that the ancient constitution had been so departed from, and thought the time was come when the people would not be contented without some species of Reform.Mr. Cresset Pelham
 said, he would withdraw it if the sense of the House was in favour of such a proceeding.Lord Ebrington
 said, the noble Lord must use his own discretion. There was no objection to the Petition, except as to the time of presenting it.The Speaker
 supported the Petition, but bore witness to the exemplary conduct of the ministers of the Irish church. Within a few years that had been very much improved.Colonel O'Grady
 denied the accuracy of the statement formerly made by Lord Plunkett that there were only twenty-five non-resident clergymen belonging to the Irish church, and gave notice that he would move to-morrow for a Return of all the Non-resident Clergy. He declared that the whole establishment required revision, and that whoever the Minister might be, he must grant it. It could be no longer borne, that clergymen, who had no parishioners should receive emoluments; or that such immense sums should be paid to churchmen. Whoever the new Minister might be, he must be subservient to the wishes of the people, and not attempt to rule them with a rod of iron. He wished to see the teachers of religion properly rewarded; but it was beyond human endurance, that they who pretended to teach the people the way to Heaven, should insist on taking from them all their worldly wealth.Mr. Hume
 observed, that the hon. Member who had just sat down mistook the purport of the observations of the hon. member for Middlesex, who had not attacked the character of the Irish clergy, but had merely stated, that he did not know what so many Protestant churchmen could do in that country. He must say, that he concurred with the spirit of that hon. Member's observation.Mr. D. Browne
 had had repeated opportunities to notice the exertions of the police, and was bound to express his satisfaction at what he had witnessed. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the additional expense was in a great degree the cause of the unpopularity of the new police. He was anxious that a committee should be appointed on the subject, and he was sure that the appointment of such a committee would be received with gratitude by the people.Mr. Wilks
No, no!l.l.,l. observed, that he had recently received deputations from three parishes, and they all concurred in substance with the statement just made by the right hon. Gentleman, as to the expediency of having a committee appointed on this subject. He thought that the unpopularity under which the new police now laboured, was founded on error. As to what had been said about the force being unconstitutional, he did not agree with the statement—it was not an unconstitutional force—nor was a standing army. The objection as to a force being unconstitutional depended not so much on the, force itself as on the manner in which it was maintained, and on the nature of the control exercised over it. He repeated, therefore, that neither the police, nor even the standing army, was an unconstitutional force in itself: but it might be made so by the way in which it was treated by the Government. The great objection was to the expensiveness of the establishment, and in the increased amount of rates levied on the parishes. In the parish of Ealing, for instance, where the old watch only cost 80No, no!l.l.,l.Mr. Hume
 should be happy to give his support to the Bill, but would like it better if it went much further than the bill of last Session.Mr. S. Worthy
 wished, that the learned Gentleman would postpone his measure, as he thought it would be preferable to take into consideration the whole subject of Powers at once. The distinctions between Powers were immense, and created great injuries, and therefore the subject was deserving the fullest consideration. He hoped to see one general simple law, by which all Wills and Powers might be executed.Mr. Campbell
 wished to effect the immediate object of removing what was mischievous, and could not consent to postpone a measure of such utility because it did not go the whole length to which it might hereafter be carried.The Solicitor General
 said, that the new police had been very useful in recovering stolen property, which important service had been overlooked. He believed that in one district alone the amount of property recovered was greater than the increase of the assessment.Mr. Warburton
 entered his protest against saddling the country with any part of the expense of the Metropolitan Police. He thought that as the advantages of the police were local, the taxation should be so too.Colonel Sibthorp
 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholic inhabitants of Galway, praying for equal rights.Mr. O'Connell
582 deprecated the laying any tax on the people of the country, for the support of the Metropolitan Police. He expressed his hope that the expense of the Irish constabulary force would no longer be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, but would be defrayed by local taxation, in the same manner as in London. The people in the western part of the metropolis were much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the introduction of the new police, and he believed that the investigations of the committee would satisfy the public that
582Mr. Portman
 highly lauded the zeal, piety, learning, and character of the Irish clergy. They were most assiduous in doing their duty in that part of the country with which he was connected. At the same time he should like to see a more equal distribution of the property of the church among its members. Industrious Curates ought not to be allowed to starve, while Rectors were wallowing in wealth.Mr. Ruthven
 knew, that the great grievance of the establishment was its expensiveness, which he had reason to believe was not equally borne by the different parishes in which the police was now stationed. Some of the out-parishes especially were burthened far beyond those in the metropolis itself, and far beyond their means of payment. The country at large was interested in the preservation of peace in the metropolis, and ought to contribute to maintain the police.Mr. Byng
575 (the late Chancellor of the Exchequer) defended the Irish church, and stated, that it never was in a better state than at present. He denied that non-residence existed to such an extent as to be considered an evil, and he referred to the proof which had been
575Mr. Goulburn
 concurred in protesting against levying any part of the expense for the new police on the country generally. It ought all to be borne by the parishes and property which were protected.Mr. Curteis
581 thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the manner in which he had expressed himself on this subject, and observed, that in addition to the evil of
581Mr. Maberly
 observed, that the real object of those who petitioned for a repeal of the Legislative Union (which would be, in his opinion, a most mischievous measure) would be best served by bringing about a Reform in the Irish Church, and he recommended these persons to come forward manfully, and petition for that which they really wanted, and they would find many English Members to support them. He considered that the system of the Irish Church establishment required revision, both as regarded expense and non-residence, and that it was only in consequence of the Legislative Union that it had been maintained up to the present time. The non-resident clergy ought to forfeit their revenues, for they had no duty to perform, and no people to instruct.Mr. John Wood
 objected to extending the expense of supporting the Metropolitan Police to the country at large. Each district should pay its own local expenses. It was in that manner that the constabulary force in Ireland was supported.Mr. Wyse
 observed, that the hon. Member was mistaken, since the expense of the constabulary force in Ireland was not supported by local taxation alone. A considerable part of the expense of that establishment was taken from the Consolidated Fund. He would now refer again for one moment to the expense of the new police establishment, in order to say, that by the terms of the Act which he had introduced for the establishment of the new police, an account was to be laid before Parliament, within thirty days of its assembling, of the real amount of the sums paid by each parish on account of the new police. That provision referred to the meeting of Parliament after December, and therefore, when Parliament did again assemble, he should move for that account, with the view of showing that the sums stated to have been paid for the new police had not been really required for that purpose.Sir R. Peel
579d.d.s.578d.d.s.d.d.577 said, that if he had remained in office, and if any one had proposed that a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into the efficiency of the police, and whether the charge for it could be reduced, he should not have had the slightest difficulty in acceding to such a proposition. He should, on the contrary, be most ready to acquiesce in it; not because the expense of the police had in the slightest degree shaken his conviction that it was absolutely necessary that some such force should exist for the preservation of the persons and property of the inhabitants of this great metropolis, but because he should be glad to be afforded the public opportunity of examining into every proceeding connected with the new establishment, its mode of appointment, its arrangement, the real amount of the expense which was incurred for it, and of having a comparison drawn, both on the score of expense and efficiency, between the present improved system of police, and that which formerly existed. He should be glad to be afforded such an opportunity for the purpose of doing away with the gross misrepresentations which had been spread abroad by interested persons on this subject. If, therefore, any such committee should have been proposed, he, for one, should have been most happy, if he had continued in office, to second the motion, as he felt convinced that the result of the evidence which would be produced before that
579d.d.s.578d.d.s.d.d.577Sir R. Peel
 gave notice, that immediately after the Christmas recess, he would move for the appointment of a Select Committee on the subject. He repeated, he would move for such a committee, not from any doubts which he entertained of the efficiency of the new police, but because he was anxious that the whole establishment should be examined.Sir R. Peel
l.576 said, that he had been desired to present a Petition from the Parish of St. John, Southwark, on the subject of the New Police. If the petitioners had passed any reflection upon that body, he certainly should have been at variance with them;
l.576Sir R. Wilson
 Beresford presented a Petition from Carrickbeg, praying for a Repeal of the Legislative Union between England and Ireland.Lord George
584 said, that he had been instructed by his constituents to support this Petition; with the prayer of which he heartily concurred. There were facts connected with the town from which it came, that well illustrated the effects of the Legislative Union. In the year 1810 there were 7,800 persons supported in that town by the coarse woollen manufacture alone; while at present there were not seven persons maintained by it. This town was placed in the happiest situation for every species of commerce, both externally and internally. It was situated at the junction of three noble rivers, and the finest and richest plain in the world extended from it. Yet it was now in the most miserable st e of decay—he would say, decrepitude. He was glad to say, that Protestants as well as Roman Catholics, of Carrickbeg, had united in signing
584Mr. O'Gonnell
 condemned the agitation of the question of repealing the Union, as a course calculated, beyond all others, to excite religious and political animosities in Ireland. He contended, that all men of good sense, good feeling, respectable character, and independent property in Ireland, were opposed to the mooting of it. As a proof of his assertion, he alluded to the proceedings of a public meeting recently held at Belfast, where every man of education, intelligence, opulence, and respectability in the town, no matter what were his religious opinions or political creed, had joined in declaring themselves opposed to a repeal of the Union. If such a measure should unfortunately meet with the approbation of Parliament, which he could not by any possibility anticipate, they would have a hundred paupers for every individual pauper whom they had in Ireland at the present moment.Sir Robert Bateson
 rose for the purpose of contradicting the hon. and learned member for Waterford, who had said that no public meeting had been called at Belfast on this subject.Sir A. Chichester
l.—I did not say that no public meeting had been called. I said that no meeting had been called by public advertisement.Mr. O'Connel
 said, that a most numerous and respectable meeting at Belfast had come unanitnously to a resolution against discussing this question, because they were convinced that the discussion of it would be highly injurious. He could answer for this being the opinion of the north of Ireland.Sir A. Chichester
 sincerely deprecated the agitation of this question. He could not concur with the hon. member for Dublin in wishing that it were brought before the House by a specific motion, because he thought that by that means the agitation of it in Ireland would be increased.Colonel O'Grady
 said, he must positively contradict what had fallen from the hon. member for Waterford. There had been a public meeting at Belfast, at which those present came unanimously to a resolution against agitating the question of the repeal of the Union. The great town of Belfast was decidedly against entertaining that mischievous project.Sir R. Bateson
 said, that if the objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman was allowed to its full extent, there would be no limitation to the right of appeal. It would go even to destroy every subordinate Court which existed on the principle of limitation in the amount for which actions were to be brought.The Solicitor General
 said, that this case was only one of the very numerous instances of the evils of allowing the colonies to be governed by orders in Council. Until a different principle prevailed, abuses would continue, and the colonies would be expensive to this country, without enjoying prosperity themselves.Mr. Hume
 supported the prayer of the petition. He had been also intrusted with a petition on the same subject from Galway, and he had only deferred presenting it in order that he might know whether it was the intention of his hon. friend, the member for Limerick, to bring forward again the Galway Franchise Bill.Sir John Bourke
596 said, the hon. Member was a man of education, and he should have apprehended that few Gentlemen who aspired to speak in that House could be ignorant of what an essoign day was; but, since he supposed that others were, he would beg to explain the intention of the Bill. The hon. Member seemed to complain of his having removed that expression from the Bill, but in professing to criticise it, he shewed that he was not master of its meaning. He said, that the Bill had existed three months, and that already it had been found necessary to alter it; but, in fact, the part of the Bill to
596The Attorney General
 felt obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for his statement, from which it appeared, that the Bill, instead of having been in operation three months, had not yet come into operation, but required another bill to enable it to move. If the hon. and learned Gentleman knew that this provision was necessary, why did he not introduce it at the time? His present measure was nothing more than a patching up of an incomplete bill. The public prints said, that it would be impossible to carry the learned Gentleman's measure into effect without amendment; and he apparently had taken the hint from the public papers. He was right in bringing these amendments forward; but he should not take credit for them. If the Attorney General and other law-officers of the new Administration should not know what they had to do better than those of the retiring Administration, one-half of the time of the House would be thrown away in amending the blunders and mistakes committed in the other half.Mr. Hume
 reiterated his statement that the Amendment was not of any clause introduced into the Bill in that House, but of a clause introduced by the Chief Justice in the House of Lords.The Attorney General
s.d.s.d.s.597 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better providing Employment for the Labouring Poor, at fair and adequate wages. In doing so he observed, that the Bill which he was about to introduce was almost word for word the same as the
s.d.s.d.s.597Lord Nugent
 wished that the Bill could be extended to Ireland, though the Irish people ought to be obliged to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir R. Peel) for what he had done for them, as well as for the fairness and candour, with which he had always avowed his opposition.Mr. Ruthven
 bore testimony to the truth and good faith which the right hon. Gentleman had always observed towards the House. He differed from that right hon. Gentleman on many political questions, but there was no public man whose integrity he more highly esteemed.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 highly approved of the Bill, and contended that parishes ought to have the power of employing poor on waste lands. There was no surer criterion of the strength and prosperity of a country than the condition of the labouring and middle classes. He wished each man also to have a small piece of ground.Mr. Briscoe
598 was convinced that the measure would be practically useful in the
598Sir J. Shelley
 knew from authentic information, that the county of Sussex was in a most deplorable state. Large bodies of labourers were going about compelling the farmers to give higher wages, and the farmers were unable to resist. Some measures should be speedily adopted.Mr. John Johnstone
 could not attribute the state of the labouring poor to the conduct of Government, and he was convinced that it would be impossible to do any thing for the poor, unless the higher agricultural classes did something for them. The Bill could not be extended to Ireland, as no Poor-laws existed in that country. He hoped that the Bill would have the effect anticipated, and whoever might be the new Ministers, he was confident that they could not stand unless they did something for the landed interest and the distressed peasantry.Mr. Curteis
 was more disposed to listen to those who suggested remedies for the evils, than to those who expatiated on them. It was not by Acts of Parliament that the distress could be remedied. All classes must lend a contributory hand, and especially landlords. Those who proposed that the salaries of Ministers should be reduced to the standard of 1792, should contrast their own rent-roll at present with the amount they received in 1792. Farmers could not afford to pay war-rents, war-tithes, and war-wages. Landlords must make large concessions, and the benefit would soon be felt and willingly acknowledged. He trusted that the clergy would practise the virtues of charity and forbearance, as well as inculcate them weekly.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that the rents in the county he represented had generally been reduced one-third.Mr. Curteis
 was understood to speak in favour of the Church Establishment, and to reprobate any modification of the tithe-system that might possibly be inconsistent with its security.Mr. Long Wellesley
 protested against the doctrine that the landlords and gentry of England were indifferent to the state of their tenantry. The rent of land was regulated by the laws of supply and demand, like all other commodities; and if humanity did not induce landlords to lower rents to the state of the market, good sense very soon would.Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l.l. thought it preposterous to talk of reducing the rent of lands to what it had been in 1792, since, in the interval, a great deal of capital had been laid out in its improvement. Land that was worth 30l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 was glad to have the subject of the Poor-laws brought forward; but it was attended with innumerable difficulties, and he much doubted the beneficial effects of the present measure.Mr. Ridley Colborne
 explained, that he wished the tithe system reformed, but the supremacy of the Church maintained.Mr. Long Wellesley
 wished to know to whom were the peasantry of Ireland to prefer their complaints, if not to that House? He defended the conduct of the hon. member for Waterford, and contended that, as the serving of the notices had been admitted by the hon. member for Wicklow, the statement was untouched, and that the hon. Gentleman, the Solicitor General for Ireland, appeared to be ignorant of the facts of the case. His hon. friend, the member for Waterford, had been accused of stating falsely, that 800 notices to quit had been served on Earl Fitzwilliam's tenantry; he had accordingly brought documents to prove that 1,500 notices had been served; the accuracy of those documents was not denied by the hon. member for Wicklow, and therefore his hon. friend had completely made out his case, notwithstanding the loud and confident assertions of Gentlemen opposite.Mr. Hume
 said, he did not concur in the prayer of the petition. He denied that the Union had caused the decay of the woollen manufacture in Carrickbeg. The manufactures had been bad, and although admonished by their customers, the manufacturers continued to supply a bad article; and in consequence of this it was that Carrickbeg lost its owollen trade.Lord George Beresford
587 said, that as this petition came from his constituents, he should move that it be printed. He then told the House that the hon. member for Londonderry (Sir Robert Bateson) was greatly misinformed when he stated that there had been a public meeting at Belfast which had condemned even the agitation of the question of repealing the Union. There had been a meeting of some gentlemen at a room in that town; but there had been no public meeting, and their opponents had taunted those gentlemen for not having dared to convene a public meeting of their townsmen on that question. As to the agitation of the repeal being likely to excite religious and political animosity in Ireland, he begged leave most explicitly to deny it. The fact was directly the reverse; it had contributed, more than any measure with which he was acquainted, to put an end to all religious and personal animosities. As a proof of it, he would mention, that since he had brought forward the agitation of this great and important question, he had had several votes of thanks presented to him by bodies of Orangemen—one in particular by a Mr. Richardson, of Dublin— and of such votes of thanks he was more
587Mr. O'Connell
593 presented a Petition from the same places, complaining of the evils of absenteeism, and praying for a repeal of the Union. He took that opportunity to state, that he now held in his hand documents confirming his statement as to the serving of notices upon the estate of Earl Fitzwilliam, in the county Wicklow. Instead of 800 persons having got notice to quit (which was his original statement), it would appear from the documents which had been forwarded to him, that 1,544 persons had received such notices, and their names and residences were furnished to him. He had also received documents
593Mr. O'Connell
 replied, that he had all along asserted that 800 persons had received notice to quit; he had therefore retracted nothing, and the documents which had been furnished to him had nearly doubled that statement. He congratulated the House on its readiness to lead on a cheer against him, and assured the Members that such cheers gave him a proud conviction that he had done his duty to his country.Mr. O'Connell
 said, he was sorry that the learned Solicitor General was not in the House, as he would have another opportunity of admiring that beautiful thing which he called the science of the law. Here, was an amendment in the law for altering the essoign day, and he should be glad if the House could be made to know what it meant. Yet the law was praised because the hon. member for Middlesex could not understand it. An excellent thing it was for the conjurors who did understand it; but those who went to have their fortunes told had not much reason to rejoice. But even the conjurors themselves were sometimes at fault; for the Attorney General framed a bill last Session, exactly three months ago, and he now wished to make an amendment in it, in the necessity of which he perfectly concurred.Mr. O'Connell
595 observed, that upon the first night of the Session the hon. member for Waterford had asserted, in his speech upon the Address, not that notices had been served upon 800 families upon the Fitzwilliam estate, but that 800 families had been actually turned out from their homes, and sent adrift upon the world. The learned member for Yorkshire, in adverting to that statement upon the same evening, said, that it was the most horrible picture he had ever heard drawn of the condition of any country, and that such a state of things should not be allowed to exist in any portion of the civilized world. Such was the impression, too, which the statement of the hon. member for Waterford made then upon the House. That hon. Member afterwards retracted the statement as to 800 families, and confined it to 800 persons; and he had now retracted his statement as to the fact, for it appeared that the notices of which he spoke were not real ejectments. The object,
595Mr. G. Dawson
589588 said, that he could not hear the hon. member for Waterford make such statements as he had ventured upon that evening without giving that hon. and learned Member the most positive and the most decided contradiction. The opinions which prevailed in Ireland with regard to the repeal of the Union, were, as every body who was acquainted with Ireland must be aware, directly the reverse of what the hon. and learned Member had represented them to be. Instead of the wealth, and the respectability, and the talent of Ireland being friendly to a repeal of the Union, he would venture to say,— in the presence of Irish Members, and without fear of contradiction from any but the hon. and learned member for Waterford,—that all the genuine commercial activity—all that could be fairly included in the respectability, and all that could
589588Mr. Moore
586 ridiculed the idea that the distress now prevalent in some counties of England was owing in any degree which the House could notice to the irruption of Irish labourers upon their labouring population. The fact was, that the distress felt in the agricultural districts was always felt most severely in the winter. In the summer the value of labour increased, the rate of wages became higher, and the distress
586Lord Nugent
 was aware of that circumstance, but vouched for the accuracy of the statement, and for the bad effect of the limitation upon the right of appeal.Mr. Brougham
l.l. said, that he had been requested to support the prayer of the petition. The case of the petitioner was peculiar: An action had been brought against him for a sum of 250l.l.Mr. Brougham
591 did not wish to destroy that principle, but to leave a discretion in
591Mr. Brougham
590 said, he held in his hand a petition which he felt highly honoured by having committed to his charge. It was upon the question of punishment of death for offences where violence had not been committed. It came from a body of men liable to serve upon Grand Juries in London; and amongst the names that stood forward on the list were those of seven gentlemen who had served as Foremen during the last year. The petition, he stated, was written with distinguished ability and great force, and he would fain have it read at length if he could venture to trespass upon the time of that House; he would content himself with reading the prayer of the petition, which was, that the law which prescribed the punishment of death for offences in which violence had not been committed was detrimental to public justice. He considered this petition worthy the best attention of the House, from the high authority of the petitioners upon the subject to which they directed their attention. It was evident, from the statement, that great difficulty arose from the scruples of Jurors to convict, and that thus the guilty frequently escaped punishment altogether. He believed the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) agreed with
590Mr. Brougham
 reiterated the statement contained in the letter of Archdeacon Trench, with regard to the estate of Lord Rathdown, and at the same time said, he should be most happy to see the documents spoken of by the hon. member for Waterford.Sir H. Hardinge
 did not mean to deny, that what the hon. and learned Member had stated with respect to the notices was fact; but it was not the mere consequence of the Subletting Act, nor was that fact sufficient to justify any imputation on the landlord. It was impossible, in the present state of the law, to relet the farms without giving this notice, in order to be strictly regular; but though these notices had been given, he denied that 800 or 1,500 persons had been turned off the estate. So far from it, indeed, he had the best reason for believing that only one of the tenants on whom notice was served was likely to quit. He took that opportunity of bearing his sincere testimony to the excellent character and conduct of Mr. Challoner, the agent for the noble Earl. He had had amply opportunity of witnessing the manner in which that gentleman managed the noble Earl's estate, and nothing could be more excellent or more liberal. Mr. Challoner had this last summer spent a very large sum of money in improving the estate, and the consequence was, that the peasantry in that neighbourhood had the advantage of good employment.Mr. J. Grattan
594 deprecated the practice of introducing such discussions upon the presentation of petitions; and, above all, he deprecated the practice of the hon. member for Waterford, in thus constantly recurring to statements which had been repeatedly contradicted. Was that House to be a court of appeal for the peasantry in these matters, and what sort of tribunal, he would ask, would the House of Commons become, if, night after night, state-
594Mr. Doherty
 explained. He had never meant to assert that the people should not have the right to petition that House.Mr. Doherty
592l. presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the town of Galway, which Stated, that although the disqualifications generally affecting his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects had been repealed, yet the Roman Catholic mercantile and trading classes of Galway still continued an isolated exception to the general boon, being as yet excluded from the elective franchise, as enjoyed by their ancestors in common with Protestants before the enactment of the penal code, and as exercised even at the present day by their Protestant fellow-citizens. The petition also stated, that since 1793 the franchise had fallen into the hands of an absentee peasantry, at present amounting to nearly 2,000 in number, to the entire destruction of any power in the Protestant mercantile classes, and to the utter exclusion of the Roman Catholics, who could not become free, from the want of Protestant freemen to whom they might serve apprenticeships. He had presented a petition against the Corporation of Athlone, and the present was the second intrusted to him against corporate usurpation in Ireland, and the conversion of public funds to private purposes. A third petition he had also to present, but which he should for the present abstain from doing, as he intended to make a specific motion to have it referred to a Select Committee when a Government was formed. That petition was from the city of Kilkenny, offering proof at the bar of the House that, like what had taken place in Galway, land, of the clear yearly value of 10,000592l.Mr. Leader
 also supported the prayer of the petition. He considered it most important, and that it required the best attention of the House. It clearly showed the painful alternative to which Jurors were exposed—that of unjustly and unrighteously condemning a man to death, or else that of violating their conscientious feelings, by deciding contrary to evidence.Mr. Denman
 said, that it was his intention to bring that Bill forward again this Session.Mr. Spring Rice
 presented a petition from a Gentleman named Angustin Galleano, upon the important subject of the state of the Judicature there. The petitioner complained of a decision of the Court there, against which he had not been allowed to appeal.Mr. Ward
 corroborated the statement of the hon. and learned Member; and said, that he heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition.Mr. Ward
 could say nothing of the facts alleged in this petition, as he had had no intimation of its being about to be presented.Sir G. Murray
585 said, that as he had been prevented by severe indisposition from declaring his opinion on this question when it formerly came under the notice of the House, he would avail himself of that opportunity to state distinctly what it was. His decided conviction was, that the repeal of the Union would be attended by consequences the most deplorable to Ireland. He had always looked upon the Union as a measure which, once passed, was irrevocable; and he knew that it had been so considered by those great and illustrious men who had been its greatest opponents. It had always been asserted by Mr. Grattan, and by the most eminent men who had acted with him, that the measure of the Union, being once passed, could not afterwards be repealed. His opinion was very different from that of the hon. member for Waterford, respecting the effects which the Union had produced upon Ireland. A great many consequences had been attributed to the Union, which did not properly belong to it. He believed that many abuses which existed before the Union, and much of the misgovernment of the local Parliament of Ireland, were falsely attributed to the Union; and when Gentlemen called for the repeal of the Union, he begged leave to remind them, that he was old enough to recollect that many of those who now joined in that cry were
585Sir J. Newport
in commendam,l.l.commendamcommendam,623commendam.in commendam.l.622l.l.l.621l.in commendam, on the question being put, said, that a motion respecting the living of Stanhope had been put upon the books by the hon. Member who had now vacated his seat, and as that Motion could not now come on, for a short time at least, and, in the mean time, the right rev. Prelate referred to in that Motion, was subjected to the effect of those mistakes that had been circulated respecting him, he (Mr. Phillpotts) trusted that the House would indulge, him while he made a short statement of the real circumstances of the case: —The Petition from the inhabitants of Stanhope to his Majesty, praying that the Rectory of that Parish might not be holden in commendam,l.l.commendamcommendam,623commendam.in commendam.l.622l.l.l.621l.in commendamMr. Phillpotts
 expressed his dissent from the gallant Admiral's opinion as to the office of Lord Lieutenant for Ireland.Mr. Pringle
627 said, he held in his hand a Petition from a Parish which now contained 130,000 inhabitants. He alluded to the parish of Mary-le-bone, and the petitioners prayed for a law to enable them to remove the Select Vestry, which now concealed from the parishioners the nature of their expenditure, and which had been made to amount to so large a sum as greatly to distress the parish. When the parishioners had come before the Magistrates to appeal against the conduct of the Vestry, they found many of the Officers of the Vestry sitting on the bench
627Mr. Hume
 thought, that the parishioners had an advantage in preliminary appeals, and might afterwards appeal to the Sessions, while other parishes could only appeal to the general Sessions.Mr. Wilks
 supported the petition, and he hoped that the time was arrived when the prayers of the people would be heard in that House, and he trusted that before many weeks the Cabinet would bring in some measures for Reform. As to the vote by ballot, he had been rather opposed to it, but the manner in which the late elections had been conducted, had convented him to take a favourable view of that plan. At any rate it seemed now to be desired by the people, and their wishes ought to be attended to.Sir R. Ferguson
 said, that he continued of opinion, that the measure was of an injurious character, and that it would tend to prevent a fair and impartial administration of justice. The Bill proceeded altogether upon a false assumption of the law with respect to where the Assizes were held, the places not being permanently fixed by law, but changeable at the pleasure of the Crown. He did not know what could be done in cases of remanets, if the Bill were to pass. In this respect the Bill was, in fact, opposed to what it pretended to accomplish; for as the Assizes were held alternately in the eastern and western parts of the county, and as the remanets from one Assize were tried at the next, the Special Jurors who had been summoned in such causes in the first instance from one division of the county, would have to attend the trial in the other. He thought the general system ought not to be broken in upon by any such local Bills.Mr. Campbell
631630 said, he had given notice of a Motion for that evening, to the effect, that it was the opinion of the House that no person appointed to any Office after this time, should receive any Salary or Allowances exceeding those paid for the same Office in 1796, and he felt sure that the House would have gone along with him in the propriety of the Resolution, if it had not been for some circumstances that recently occurred. Now, however, lest it should appear as if such a motion involved a want of
631630Mr. Hume
 said, he should yield to the feeling of the House and withdraw the petition.Mr. Hume
Cries of "No."632 said, this was the second
Cries of "No."632Colonel Davies
 said, that after the decision of the House the other night, postponement could not be thought of. At the same time he admitted that much inconvenience might be felt by parties in the event of difficulty being experienced in obtaining sufficient Members for ballots. But when the difficulty arose, the House must endeavour to deal with it. The hon. Member intimated that it was proposed to get through the ballots for election petitions as fast as possible, and with that view the House, which would adjourn over from to-morrow till Wednesday, would meet again on Thursday, for which day there were three ballots fixed.Mr. S. Rice
 hoped no serious idea of postponing the Election Committees was entertained in any quarter. He should certainly oppose such a proposition.Mr. Hume
 assured his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Spring Rice) that he felt no hostility towards him, or the newly-appointed Members of his Majesty's Government generally. At the same time he must say, he had seen with feelings of the utmost surprise and concern the announcement of the appointment made to the office, of Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He said, it was with surprise he saw Government filling up this place, more particularly after what fell from the present Lord Chancellor the other night in the debate on the Civil List. If Ministers persisted in their present line of conduct with respect to the Duchy, and did not themselves take the matter up, he should consider it his duty to bring the subject of the Duchy of Lancaster before the House immediately after the recess.Colonel Davies
633 said, he did not wish to disturb what had been done the other night, but at the same time he felt that no duty was so important as that of endeavouring to restore tranquillity and quiet to the country. He might, perhaps, be considered an alarmist—a character he should be sorry to sustain, but he found it impossible to conceal his opinion as to the extent of the existing evil, and wished to call the
633Mr. Baring
 was convinced that no person could have attended to the duties of his office more assiduously than did the right hon. Baronet; but giving the right hon. Gentleman every credit for a desire to restore the public quiet, still he must say, he was of opinion that the disturbances might have been put down at once by prompt measures; that when more confined and limited than, unhappily, they now were, the disorders might have been crushed and prevented from extending. He feared, that if the disorders went on for three or four days longer, they would extend beyond the reach of almost any power to suppress them. That was his opinion; if there was not force in the country to put down the disturbances, when they only existed in one county, what chance should we have of suppressing them when they extended, as they soon might, over a dozen counties? If there was not sufficient force to repress these disorders, it was the duty of Government to provide it. But he did not mean to say that there was really any deficiency of force to effect this object; on the contrary, he was of opinion that, with a little more vigour at first, and a better application of the force which we possessed, Government might have prevented the evil from spreading as it had.Mr. Baring
 wished for a postponement of the measure, to facilitate the arrangement of its details.Lord George Cavendish
 thought, that as the learned Member's objections were technical, they ought to have been stated in the Committee. The cases of remanets were provided for in the Bill.Mr. O'Connell
 believed, that the people of Ireland generally, and more especially in the north, and in Armagh, were unanimously in favour of voting by Ballot.Mr. O'Connell
l.l., seized the same opportunity to express his hope that the office of Treasurer for Ireland, a sinecure, would be abolished. This was the more necessary, as the country was paying 16,000l.l.Mr. O'Connell
in commendaml.ad misericordiam624 said, that as the circumstances attendant upon the promotion of Dr. Phillpotts were generally under-
in commendaml.ad misericordiam624Sir H. Hardinge
 moved the third reading of the Sussex Special Jury Bill.628Mr.
628
629 had no wish whatever to exclude petty Jurymen from any advantages to be given to especial Jurymen under the Bill. It should be remembered that the county of Sussex was 100 miles long, and only thirty broad, and it was a great hardship to call upon Jurymen to travel such a vast distance. The Bill had been brought in with the approbation and at the desire of a very considerable body of the freeholders of the county. The districts for selecting Juries would be fifty miles long, by thirty broad, and it was not likely that Juries could be packed. He had seen an observation in another place than that House, that Special Jurymen were paid for their trouble, and consequently that it was not necessary to consult their convenience so much as that of petty Jurors; but the payment was only one guinea, and which was unworthy of consideration with respect to the distance they had to travel. If' the districts into which the Bill would divide the county were too small for the fair selection of Juries, what must be the case in Rutlandshire, Huntingdon, and Hertfordshire? and yet no complaints of partiality in the
629Mr. Curteis
 postponed the third reading-till the 1st of February.Mr. Curteis
626the hon. Member occupied his usual seat on the Opposition Benches,625 would take that opportunity to say, that though no individual
626the hon. Member occupied his usual seat on the Opposition Benches,625Mr. J. Wood
 suggested, that between that time and to-morrow an opportunity might be afforded to apply to the parties interested, and consult them as to whether it would be of advantage to them to have their election petitions postponed. If ballots were fixed, and a House was not made upon the appointed day, it would occasion a heavy expense to individuals.Mr. R. Colborne
 having moved for leave of absence for Mr. Dundas, who was ordered to join his regiment in consequence of the public disturbances,Colonel Cradock
 thought the Bill calculated to afford a reasonable degree of accommodation to the county, and anticipated no greater inconvenience in Sussex, when thus divided, than in other large divisions of counties, provided a sufficient fund of Special Jurors could be found within it. He thought, however, that the part of the Bill relating to remanets required further consideration, and therefore he hoped that the Bill would be postponed.Mr. Denman
 rose to present a Petition from the Town of Nottingham, praying for a thorough Reform of Parliament. The petition was signed by 8,000 persons, a number which constituted more than half of the adult male population of the place. The petitioners prayed that the subject of Reform might be taken immediately into the consideration of the House, and they expressed themselves favourable to the vote by Ballot. They were convinced that the mere extension of the franchise to a few great towns would be a Reform of very little value. With respect to the vote by ballot, he thought the subject required the fullest consideration, since so very large a portion of the country was favourable to that system. In his private opinion, he was by no means convinced of its propriety by any arguments he had as yet heard, though he must confess himself quite open to conviction upon the subject.Mr. Denman
 moved that a New Writ be issued for the election of a Member for the County of Cumberland, in the room of Sir James Graham, who had accepted the Office of First Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty.Mr. Spring Rice
 thought the House under great obligations to the hon. member for Stafford (Mr. Campbell) for his observations upon the Bill, which certainly formed a precedent for circumscribing the districts from which Juries were selected, and therefore the Bill trenched upon the principles of the Jury Act. Practically speaking, Sussex was divided into two parts—the eastern and western, and they were separated more than parts of counties generally were. Upon the whole, he thought the local convenience of the county would be very much consulted by the Act, and he, for one, should not be disposed to offer it any opposition.Sir R. Peel
635 ventured to say, that if a proposal had been made by Government last year to increase the military force of the country, in anticipation of disturbances such as now existed,—he ventured to say that the proposal would not have met the approbation of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member had said, the disorders might still be put down, and in this sentiment he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman. Indeed, he saw no reason for apprehension. He thought that, even without reference to a military force, the fact of every man that was menaced being, as was doubtless the case, prepared to fight in defence of
635Sir R. Peel
634 in reference to the hon. Member's allusion to, and implied want of vigilance and promptitude in the late Cabinet, with respect to the disturbances existing in some parts of the country, could only say, that every aid which it was possible for the counties in question to receive from the military force at the disposal of Government, they had received; that every suggestion of the local magistracy—every suggestion calculated to stop the evil, had been adopted by the late Government, which paid the most undivided attention, to the case. Where parties locally interested co-operated with Government—where the disposition towards disturbance had been promptly met by them—it was always suppressed. He had seen individuals, unsupported by any force, refuse to sign papers guaranteeing a reduction of rents and tithes, and he knew of no one case of personal violence having been offered to such individuals, who were uniformly successful in their resistance to such lawless demands. In all cases of this nature the rioters had retired, threatening perhaps to return on a future day, but they did not. No doubt, if there was not a sufficient military and local force to support persons who acted thus, and repress disturbance, Parliament would be at least as much in fault as the late Govern-
634Sir R. Peel
cries of "Withdraw." said, that the original petition to which the hon. Member referred, was reported by him to-day to the effect that no recognizance had been entered into; and on that report being made, the order for the consideration of the petition was discharged. With regard to the merits of the case, he believed them to be precisely as the hon. Member had stated. In the first instance, a day was fixed for entering into recognizances on the petitioner's own suggestion; and now further time was asked for, because the Master, acting on that suggestion, had fixed an improper day. It was for the House to say whether, under such circumstances, it felt disposed to receive this petition, or disturb the decision to which it had come upon the subject [cries of "Withdraw."The Speaker
 did not wish to obstruct the Bill, if the gentlemen of the county, who must be the best judges of the matter, were favourable to it; but the question was, whether the distance from which Special Jurors must be summoned was such as to render it worth while to pass a law on the subject.Sir James Scarlett
 (who spoke from his usual place upon the Ministerial benches) said, he was also anxious to make a declaration of his sentiments upon this occasion, as well as the hon. member for Preston. If the new Ministers would conduct themselves properly—if they would redeem the pledges which they had given—and if, beginning at the right end, they would effect the retrenchment and the Reform which they promised, they should have his support. He hoped, among other things, that the new Ministry would again bring forward the question for the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland, which ought to be done away. The greatest mistake of all had been the declaration against Reform. Had the franchises of a few of the corrupt boroughs been given to the large towns, even by way of a sop to Cerberus, the Ministers might have weathered the storm, and he for one regretted that they had not done so.Sir Joseph Yorke
637 moved that a new writ be issued for the borough of Knaresborough, in the room of the right hon. Henry Brougham, now Lord Broug-
637Mr. Spring Rice
640The Morning Chronicle,639domino638 said, that this motion, although it appeared to be almost one of course, was, considering the circumstances attending it, one of the most important that had ever been made within the walls of that House, and he trusted, therefore, that he should be excused if he ventured to make a few observations upon it. The Gentleman whose place it was now necessary to fill up in that House, and who, by the courtesy of that House, had been usually called an hon. and learned Member of that House, but who now, by a most extraordinary change, was to be called a noble and learned Lord,—the noble and learned Lord, then, had declared publicly and plainly that House, and with a full view of the change which had now been effected, that he could not by any possibility form a part of that Administration whose creation, when the now noble and learned Lord made this declaration, was plainly, obviously, and certainly, inevitable. He should not have thought so much of this declaration, had not the noble and learned Lord made it voluntarily, and had he not repeated it—yes, repeated it, and voluntarily repeated it—on the next public occasion, and after he had had full time to look at all the bearings of the impending change. He had often heard that noble and learned Lord, while a Member of that House, declare that the characters of public men formed a part of the wealth of England; and as often as the noble and learned Lord had expressed this sentiment, so often had he (Mr. Croker) been prepared to admit the correctness of it, and to participate fully in its justness. If the sentiment was correct,—as from his heart he believed it was,—he must say, that he did think it highly important that the character of the man who was vested with the most eminent and transcendent powers of the State, who was called—by an expression, a sacred expression, but not an extravagant one—" the keeper of the. King's conscience," and who, above all, had the disposal of the chief part of the patronage of the Church—he did, he said, think it important in the highest degree that the character of such a man should stand clear of all shuffling intrigue, manly, open, fair, and unclouded, to the view of the public. Certain it was, that if the character of any public man ought to stand thus, the Lord Chancellor was
640The Morning Chronicle,639domino638Mr. Croker
644congeries643642641 said, he begged that no hon. Member would suppose that he; rose to give the explanation which the hon. Gentleman had demanded. He did not rise to give any such explanation, for, even if he had one to give, he should withhold it from a Gentleman who certainly was not entitled to call for it. Still less was he influenced in rising by a desire to vindicate the character of his noble and learned friend (Lord Brougham) for sure he was, that the character of his noble and learned friend needed no vindication from him or from any other man, either here or elsewhere; but, above all,
644congeries643642641Sir J. Mackintosh
645 begged to assure hon. Members that he had come down to the House that evening without the slightest knowledge that such a discussion as the present would arise, but that he had determined, when ever the opportunity should present itself, to give vent to the expression of his opinion on this subject. He should think himself unworthy of the seat he filled in that House if he kept within his own breast the feelings with which he had heard of the appointment of the noble and learned Lord. Those feelings were not unmingled with regret—with regret that one of the sources of brilliant eloquence, of extensive knowledge, and of profound wisdom, was dried up to that House. His regret, however, was heightened by other circumstances. He had had the fortune to be an auditor of the two declarations which the noble and learned Lord had made with regard to the new Administration, and if he had misunderstood those declarations, he could only attribute it to that obtuseness of intellect which the noble and learned Lord, while a Member of that House, was accustomed to attribute to such Members of the House as happened to differ from him. That noble and learned Lord used to tell the country Gentlemen and other Mem-
645Lord P. L. Gower
 said, that he looked upon this discussion as altogether irrelevant; but, as it had arisen, he could not refrain from making one observation. If it were thought, that an explanation was necessary, he must say, that he could not consider it either a manly or a sensible course to demand that explanation in the absence of the only persons who could give it. Whatever declarations might have been attributed to his noble and learned friend, he, believed that the noble Lord who spoke last would admit that it had never been imputed to his noble and learned friend, that he had said he should be mad to accept the office of Lord Chancellor. And yet such a declaration, made by another noble individual, with regard to another office, which the same noble individual did nevertheless afterwards accept, had not been considered by the noble Lord who spoke last as any detriment to the character of that noble individual; nor had the noble Lord thought that inconsistency any ground for want of confidence.Lord Morpeth
646 said, that as a Yorkshire man he must express the regret he felt at the noble and learned Lord having seceded from that honour which he had described in one of his speeches
646Mr. T. S. Duncombe
Loud cries of "Order," and" Chair, chair," and the Speaker immediately rose647 said, that he should not have troubled the House with any observations on this subject if it had not been for the sneer—the indecent sneer— which the noble Lord (Morpeth) opposite had thrown out, and in consequence of which he felt it his duty to rise in defence of the noble person against whom that sneer was directed. Notwithstanding that indecent sneer,— notwithstanding the bitter malice and the sneers with which the Duke of Wellington had been assailed —malice and sneers which he despised,— notwithstanding these, the character of
Loud cries of "Order," and" Chair, chair," and the Speaker immediately rose647Sir H. Hardinge
" Order, order"648 was sure that the sentiments which had fallen from the gallant Officer were extremely creditable to him. The warmth with which he had defended his friend, and the candour with which he had instantly retracted a hasty expression—candour which in him could not be mistaken,— were alike honourable to the gallant officer. The observations which had fallen from his noble friend, the member for Yorkshire, and to which the gallant officer had referred, had been made in reply to a sneer from the other side of the House. He agreed with the gallant officer that many of the measures carried by the Duke of Wellington's Administration had been of a most excellent description, and he would instance, amongst others, the great measure of Catholic Emancipation. The noble Duke deserved the gratitude of the country for having, by the carrying of that measure, saved the country from that civil war to which it was exposed a year and a half ago, and that deed reflected greater glory on his name than all his splendid military achievements on the continent of Europe. There were many circumstances to justify the conduct of the noble Lord upon whom an attack had been made that evening. There were but a few days for deliberation, and that at a time when one Ministry was about being formed—when another had just been dissolved;—a time when great agitation prevailed, and when the country required a strong and efficient
" Order, order"648Mr. Macauley
 interposed, and called the hon. Member to order.The Speaker
 begged pardon of the House if he had said any thing which was out of order. He never meant to say, that any feelings of personal fear would prevent any Gentleman opposite from pursuing such a course. He never considered that it was through the means of personal fear, or intimidation, that that noble Lord had exercised such an extraordinary power as he did in that House. While he sat there, however, there were few present who would venture to make such an attack upon him. Now that he had gone from amongst them, was that the befitting time for an attack to be made upon him by those who, while he was there, dreaded the sarcastic powers of his extraordinary eloquence, and prudently shunned the encounter? He could only deplore that he had not the tongue of that great man to defend him.Mr. Macauley
 had not uttered any sneer against the noble Duke, whom he highly respected, and he applauded the warmth with which that noble person's friends were ready to defend him. What he had said was, that the noble Duke had made a declaration against taking office, stronger than that of his noble friend, and that had not lost him the confidence of his friends.Lord Morpeth
 likewise explained. He had, he said, never shrunk from an encounter with the noble Lord in question, from a fear of his sarcastic powers. He had sat in that House for many years, and he remembered that upon one occasion he had a warmer discussion with that noble Lord than he ever had with any other man in the world.Mr. Croker
 disclaimed any thing like personal feeling in the observations which he had made.Lord F. L. Gower
 defended the conduct of the Duke of Wellington. When the history of that noble Duke should come to be told, the errors which he had committed would be attributed to the circumstance of his having been badly surrounded. He did not require a better proof of that than was to be found in the conduct of the hon. Gentleman opposite that evening.Mr. Long Wellesley
 said, that he had been instrumental, with others, in obtaining the return of Mr. Brougham, now Lord Brougham, for Yorkshire, and he could assure the House, that the people of Yorkshire would be delighted when they heard of that noble Lord's appointment to his present high office; and he was certain that nothing would give them more satisfaction than that it was upon their chosen Representative the choice of the Crown had fallen in this instance.Mr. Charles Wood
650 presented a Petition from the town of Leeds, praying for the Abolition of Negro Slavery. The Petition was signed by the Mayor, the Vicar, and upwards of 15,000 of the principal inhabitants in every branch of business, and of every denomination, in that populous and wealthy town. The noble Lord trusted that we had now a Government which would look this important question in the face. He (Lord Mor-
650Lord Morpeth
 concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that it was the duty of his Majesty's Government to look this important question in the face—a question which involved the happiness and well-being of 800,000 of our fellow-creatures.Mr. Labouchere
 supported the prayer of the petition. He had that day attended a large meeting of West-India proprietors, and the general sense of the persons present was, that the whole subject should be brought fairly before the country in all its relations.Mr. Keith Douglas
 thought, that few petitions ever presented to that House were more deserving of the fullest consideration, with respect to the subject of it, and to those from whom it emanated. He trusted, that the whole state of the colonies would be fully gone into. Justice as well as humanity demanded and he was sure that he spoke the sense of all the petitioners when he said, that the inquiry ought to be conducted with calmness, and a firm determination to injure no one.Mr. Bethell
 condemned the wild and visionary philanthropy which would emancipate the slaves before they were fit for freedom. He wanted to know what indemnity was to be granted to the West India proprietors; and maintained, that the condition of negro slaves was preferable to that of the peasantry of the United Kingdom. He should oppose any measure for emancipation which did not give compensation to the West-India proprietors.Mr. A. Trevor
651 said, that the noble Lord who had presented the Petition had not confined himself to the condition of the slaves, but had alluded to the whole policy of the Government. There
651General Gascoyne
 thought, that it would be a miserable expedient to postpone a settlement of the subject. Sufficient dependence had already been placed upon the professions of the colonial legislatures with respect to preparing the slave-population for free labour. He wished the question not to be decided on any abstract principles, but by a determination to do justice to all the parties interested. He did not believe slavery was so delightful as some hon. Members represented it; and it was nothing but cruel bondage. He wished by no means to do any injury to the West India proprietors; but he must protest against the question being indefinitely postponed in deference to their fears.Mr. Evans
 deeply regretted that a question of such magnitude should be discussed at all, especially so warmly, upon the mere incidental point whether a petition should be laid upon the Table. The subject ought to be looked at with the eyes of statesmen, and not with those of factious partisans. His being a West Indian land-owner himself should never deter him from speaking his sentiments on the subject, though he had never, and he never would countenance abuses of any kind. Affected religion and bastard morality had been called in to aid the cause of the antagonists of slavery, and to destroy the sacred and recognised rights of property in the West-Indies. He only wished to add, that the West-India interests, tired of having the question so long hanging over their heads, were now anxious that it should be brought forward in some shape or other. All they asked was an honest, impartial, and liberal inquiry into the actual condition of the slaves and of the colonies.Mr. Bernal
 denied, that pretended religion or illegitimate humanity had produced the strong feeling prevailing in the three kingdoms against slavery; he denied also, that even an Irish peasant, wretched as he was, would consent for a moment to change places with a negro, who might receive thirty-nine lashes at the will of a man, woman, or child, and who might be torn from his wife and family, that he might be sold to pay his master's debts.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that if the condition of the peasantry of Great Britain were worse than that of slaves in the West Indies, it was indeed high time for the House to inquire into the sufferings of the labouring poor.Mr. Ruthven
 wished to understand from the hon. Member who had attended the meeting of West-India Proprietors this day (Mr. K. Douglas), whether they were ready to enter fairly and honestly upon the whole question of the abolition of Slavery?Mr. Briscoe
 protested against further alteration. When the House had on two occasions decided that it would proceed at once to the consideration of the Petitions on Elections, any postponement would occasion excessive inconvenience and expense to those parties who had made arrangements, founded upon the Resolutions of the House. He hoped that his hon. friend (Mr. Rice) would not move for any further postponement. He was desirous that on the evening fixed for the ballot, they should be able to assemble a sufficient number of Members. If that should not be the case, and, consequently, repeated delay should be occasioned, he thought it would be necessary to resort to a call of the House.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 took that opportunity of asking his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Spring Rice) whether the office of Master-general of the Ordnance had yet been filled up? And also, whether it was the intention of the Government to appoint a Lieutenant general of the Ordnance?Mr. Hume
 hoped, that the new Ministry would consider how unnecessary and how excessive was the expense occasioned to the country by the Board of Control, and determine not to continue it. He had great objection to numerous Boards, and still greater objections to the changes that were continually made in them. He was of opinion that if the Board of Control was necessary, no one could be fitter for the office than Sir James Mackintosh. His observation was intended to be general, and he must say, it seemed to him as if these offices were kept only for the sake of patronage. With the exception of changing the Lord Chancellor with every Ministry, which was abominable; he knew nothing more mischievous than the frequent changes of the public Boards, to answer the purposes of Ministerial patronage. The interest of nearly 100,000,000 persons was intrusted to the Board of Control, and it ought, therefore, to be constituted of persons of great eminence, talents and practice, not removable at the pleasure of the Administration. He did not make this remark as an objection to the present Ministry, but as stating a general principle that ought to be followed.Mr. Hume
658 was afraid, that the hon. Member had imposed an impossible task on the Government, in calling on it to provide employment for the unemployed poor in Ireland. It seemed to him a prevalent error with Gentlemen from the other side of the water, to suppose that the evils complained of in Ireland could be removed by the introduction of a Bill into that House. Nothing could be more erroneous than such an opinion. He believed that a commutation of tithes, and the placing Church property on the
658Mr. Hume
660659 expressed his approbation of the valuable observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Tipperary, and he hoped that he would take every opportunity of drawing the attention of the House and the Government to the situation of Ireland, and to the means of ameliorating the condition of the people. If the hon. member for Middlesex would excuse him, he would take the liberty of telling him, that there were many things which would be of material consequence to the well-being of Ireland with which he seemed to be unacquainted. He knew that that hon. Gentleman was desirous of doing everything in his power for the improvement of Ireland, but the remedies he recommended would not produce the result he wished for. There were many other things which affected the comfort and happiness of the people, besides the tithes and Church-rates. The local payments were, perhaps, more burthensome than the general taxes. He hoped that the immediate attention of the Government would be directed to improve the state of Ireland; and Ministers might be assured, that they would meet with an ample reward in the increased loyal feelings of the people. The local taxes were peculiarly oppressive; and in the county of Londonderry, many respectable farmers whose condition had been above mediocrity —were now reduced to poverty by the operation of these rates. Sums to a very large amount were annually collected in Ireland from the farmer, which in England were derived from other sources. There were many farmers who had to pay more than the amount of their rent in local taxes, called grand Jury assessments; which were devoted to purposes never thought of in this country. The assessment last year amounted to not less than 20s. an acre in the district of Magherafelt, in the county of Londonderry. The sum paid as tithes in no part of the north of Ire land was equal to that? If these rates were
660659Sir Robert Bateson
661 said, he concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex, that it would not be in the power of the new
661Sir R. H. Inglis
s.s. observed, in explanation, that what he said was, that the County-cess, in many districts, amounted to 20s.s.Sir Robert Bateson
 expressed his regret that a discussion of this importance should be entered into in the then thin state of the House, and that such subjects had so little interest for hon. Members.Mr. Ruthven
 said, that he had voted against delay; and now that the House had decided that the Petitions should be proceeded with immediately, he was of opinion that postponement repeated from day to day, would inflict injustice on persons concerned in the petitions.Mr. Home Drummond
662s.d.l. observed, that the statements of this petition was so very extraordinary, particularly when connected with the speeches of the hon. Member who presented it, and of the hon. Member on the same bench with him, that he wished for some slight explanation of allegations which he scarcely thought it possible he could correctly have understood. The petition stated, that land in Tipperary was let for the incredible sum of 13662s.d.l.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 was not yet certain that the office of Master of the Ordnance had been filled up; but with respect to that of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance, he knew there was no intention of filling it at present,Mr. Spring Rice
 said, that if Petitions were not pending, he might not have departed from the course usually pursued on occasions of such change as had just the taken place in the relations in which some Members stood towards the country and the Government. It was by no means unusual to ask for an adjournment of several days. Certainly it was not unreasonable to ask for a delay from that to Thursday. It was his intention to move on that day for a further adjournment to the following Tuesday, and then again to Thursday. On the last-mentioned day he should move an adjournment to whatever time might then seem necessary to allow all those Members who had accepted office to be re-elected.Mr. Spring Rice
 moved that the House, at its rising, should adjourn to Thursday. There was nothing on the papers of the House for Wednesday but the Colonial Trade Bill, and it would be most convenient that public business should not be proceeded with until the return of those Gentlemen who had recently vacated their seats upon taking office. He had no doubt that many persons concerned in Election Petitions, or in Private Bills, would be desirous of a longer adjournment; but, after the decision to which the House had come the other evening, he did not feel it his duty to call for a longer adjournment.Mr. Spring Rice
d.d.s.d.s.657l.l.656 presented a Petition from the labourers of the town and neighbourhood of Tipperary, praying for legislative relief in their great distress. The Petition, the hon. Member said, was most numerously signed, but couched in language the most temperate, and evinced much of that forbearance which characterizes the Irish peasant in the midst of all privations. The petitioners complained of a total want of employment for six months in the year, of the high rent of land, and of the weight of local taxation. Either of these causes was adequate to produce much misery, and, unfortunately, they were usually combined in the most fertile portions of the island. The extensive coast of Connaught and Munster exhibited an excess of wretchedness unparalleled even in the most degraded parts of continental Europe; but from this taint scarcely any portion of the country
d.d.s.d.s.657l.l.656Mr. Wyse
665664663l.l.  wished to explain, that he did not state, as the hon. member for Newton seemed to suppose, that the rent of land in the county of Tipperary, was 12665664663l.l. Mr. Wyse
 perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that it was not in the power of either the Government or the Parliament to remedy the evils of Ireland, by the enactment of any measure, such as those in question, but he believed that it was in the power of the Government to produce a more healthy ratio of population to employment than at present existed there. That could only be done by relieving the land of those great masses of pauper population which were at present subsisted on it. If this evil were remedied, it would not be difficult to prevent a similar increase of the people. He was satisfied that if all the revenues of the Irish Church were confiscated, they would go but a little way to find employment for the destitute population; and he was decidedly opposed to any such measure, as it would occasion much evil. With respect to the new Administration, he must observe, that if they only fulfilled one-third of the promises held out, they would satisfy the people of Ireland.Mr. O'Brien
 was aware of the excessive inconvenience occasioned by the discussion of questions connected with the public business, in the absence of Members of the House, who were also members of his Majesty's Government. He could not, therefore, hesitate to acquiesce in the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite; and he thought it right that the days fixed for the sittings of the House should be those for taking into consideration Election Petitions. As there could be but one opinion, respecting the propriety of accommodating the Gentlemen "now sitting at the other side of the House," he expressed his entire acquiescence in the Motion.Sir Robert Peel
 was of opinion, that there would be no necessity for further postponement. His hon. friend (Mr. S. Wortley) seemed to him to consider the difficulty which the House might meet with, in proceeding with Election Petitions, greater than it really could be. By a late Act of Parliament, it had been enacted that 100 Members were sufficient to make a House for the ballot. Therefore, he did not fear that they should fail in assembling a sufficient number. For his part, he would attend regularly.Sir George Warrender
 explained, that when there were ballots to be taken for three Committees, the presence of 180 Members was necessary; if for two Committees, 120 Members must be present; if for but one Committee, 100 Members, as the hon. Baronet had stated, were sufficient.Sir M. W. Ridley
de die in diem.653 thought, that after the decisions to which they had come respecting the despatch of business, it was to be regretted, that any postponement
de die in diem.653Sir M. W. Ridley
 moved for a return of the amount of Church-rates levied, and of mortuary and burial fees received, &c, by the various Churchwardens in England and Wales, and how expended, in the year 1830. The hon. Member expressed his surprise that such returns were not annually made to Parliament as they were of great importance. It was not generally known what immense sums were raised in the name of the Church of England. Some returns though inaccurate had formerly been made to the other House, and by them it appeared that very nearly a million a year was collected under the name of Church-rates. He hoped that there would be no objection to the motion.Mr. Wilks
670 said, that the returns in question could not be made out without
670Mr. R. Inglis
 did not think that the labour would be so great, for accounts of such receipts and expenditure must be kept by the Churchwardens in the various parishes in the country; and if they were not kept, they ought to be kept.Mr. Hume
 said, that there would be excessive difficulty, delay, and expense in procuring such returns. He believed too that no care could make them accurate. No less than 14,000 letters must be written. He had, otherwise, no objection to the Motion.Mr. G. Lamb
 supported the Motion, on the ground that it would be a warning to all Churchwardens and public officers to keep their accounts in a state for public inspection.Mr. Warburton
l.l. said, he should withdraw his motion for the present. At the same time he was of opinion that the returns of such an expenditure as 700,000l.l.Mr. Wilks
 moved, that the House should, at its rising, adjourn to Tuesday next. He named that day for the adjournment, as a ballot for an election committee was fixed for it. Of course no debateable business would be fixed for that day, and the bills which he (Mr. S. Rice) had fixed for it would occasion no discussion.Mr. S. Rice
 gave notice, that it was his intention, soon after the recess, to move for leave to bring in bills for the alteration of the laws of property and succession; for a change of the law as it respected dower, for the purpose of enabling parents to become the heirs of their children; for the abolition of fines and recoveries, with a view to the substitution of other assurances in their stead; and also for a change in the law of Limitation. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that he did not apprehend that the bills in question would meet with much opposition, as they had been framed in compliance with the unanimous recommendation of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the law.Mr. Campbell
 also opposed the Motion as being of no utility.Sir C. Wetherell
669 obtained leave to bring in a Bill for the better securing the Charitable Donations and Bequests of his Majesty's subjects in England and Wales professing the Roman Catholic religion. The hon. Member observed, that he had brought in
669Mr. O'Connell
 opposed the Motion, on account of the inconvenience and expense attendant upon the making out of such returns. It would make the House the auditor of all the parish accounts in the kingdom which was quite unnecessary as those accounts were already audited by those who were more interested in curtailing the expenditure. The returns would, he believed, be quite useless after causing an immense expense to procure them.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that one of the great grievances of which the people had to complain was, that in many instances their parochial affairs were managed by select self-elected vestries, and he therefore should support this Motion. Such returns would check the extortion of parish parliaments,Mr. J. Wood
 said, that such information had been already obtained with regard to the parishes in Ireland, with little difficulty or expense, and he did not see why it might not be also obtained with respect to the English parishes. In the present state of the country no species of inquiry should be refused which would enable people to ascertain the amount and extent of their burthens.Mr. Leader
 concurred in the observations of his right hon. friend, and opposed the Motion.Mr. T. P. Courtenay
 did not think that, without a suggestion of general abuse, they should go into a general inquiry. The returns which had been procured from Ireland had been obtained at very great expense, and they had been found almost totally useless for the objects which he (Mr. S. Rice) and others had in view when they were called for.Mr. Spring Rice
 would not oppose it, but he hoped that notice had been given of the hon. Member's intention.Mr. Spring Rice
l.l.671 did not understand that there was any unwillingness on the part of the Government to afford every information on this subject, but the present motion was resisted on the grounds of inconvenience and expense. He (Sir R. Peel) should have no objection if the hon. Member who had spoken last would move for the production of those parochial accounts in which he was personally interested—to wit, those of the town of Preston,—to give his assent to such a motion.
l.l.671Sir R. Peel
672 took that opportunity to state, that a petition from the agent for the Queenborough petition had been put into his hands, praying that the ballot for the committee on that petition should be postponed from Tuesday next until after the recess. Probably there would be no
672Sir G. Clerk
 observed, that the statements of the petition ought to be verified by affidavits.Sir John Bourke
705 in moving for certain Returns of which he had given notice respecting the Metropolitan Police Force, adverted to the willingness expressed by aright hon. Baronet below him to agree to the appointment of a committee to inquire into the character and organization of that force, a proceeding which, he had no doubt, would be attended with results highly creditable to that body; for he thought them in many respects well calculated to answer the purpose for which they had been
705Mr. Wilks,
 repeated the statement made by Sir R. Peel, on a former evening, that the returns connected with the payments on account of the new police were, according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, to be laid before the House after the Christmas Recess. For that reason he did not think the hon. Member should press the first part of his motion; but he had no objection to the second part, because he was anxious, in common with all others, that the new system of police should be fully inquired into, and its merits fully recognized.Mr. George Lamb
l.l. approved of the system of police, but felt that the expense required reduction. In one parish the sum paid for watching was raised from 1,450l.l.Mr. Hume
 asked if it was the intention of Government to fill up the vacancy created by the retirement of the noble Earl who lately held the sinecure office of Postmaster-general of Ireland?Mr. Hume
 said, that the point on which he wished to learn the opinion of the Speaker was, whether or not the House had power to interfere. If the facts were verified on oath, could the House dispense with the prescribed regulation?Mr. Tennyson
 would still maintain, that the House was not excluded from entertaining that question.Mr. Tennyson
 presented a Petition from those electors, praying for an extension of the time for entering into recognizances. He moved that the prayer of the petition be granted.Mr. Tennyson
 in moving that the Petition be laid upon the Table, observed, that the House had interfered in six similar cases before—that it had power to do so, and that it ought to enlarge the time for entering into those recognizances, as prayed by the Petitioners. The Borough, he contended, was not a rotten Borough, and if the petition went before a committee, he had not the slightest doubt that such committee would stigmatise, not the electors of the Borough, but other parties who had endeavoured to stigmatise those electors. He thought it would be more becoming in the House to be governed by the spirit and general tenor of the Act, than by a trumpery clause of three lines in an Act of Parliament. The House was bound in every case to administer justice, and ought not to be stopped when it had power to give relief. He wished, before he sat down, to learn the opinion of the Chair on the clause under which the enlargement of time was sought.Mr. Tennyson,
 said, that a special Act of Parliament had been passed to regulate the proceedings on those Election Petitions. The persons then applying to the House for further indulgence had neglected the provisions of that Act, and he thought the House ought not to allow them the extension of time which they required.Sir C. Wetherell
 considered the Act to be imperative upon the House.Sir E. B. Sugden
 in justice to those Gentlemen who were connected with the late the Administration, felt himself called on to say, that they had determined not to renew the office alluded to, on the retirement of its present possessor, and they had also abstained, in prosecution of the same views, from filling the vacancy created by the retirement of the other noble Lord who was joint possessor of the office.Mr. Goulburn,
 observed, that the House could have no power to violate an Act of Parliament.Mr. Maberly
 opposed that petition. He said, that his hon. friend (Mr. Tennyson), who was interested in the petition, being himself a lawyer, and a Member of that House, could not plead ignorance of the law or of the forms of Parliament in excuse for the irregularity of his petition. Besides, the House had decided in the negative upon a similar petition, respecting the election for Marlow, in the year 1816.Mr. Maberly
 was happy to say, that Government had determined not to make any new appointment of that description in Ireland.Mr. Spring Rice
 thought that his hon. friend would be better advised in not making any motion to enlarge the time, especially after what had fallen from the Chair.Mr. Spring Rice
 was also desirous that the expenses of the new police should be fully ascertained; and he hoped that the return moved for by the hon. Member would be made as comprehensive as possible, in order to afford a fair comparison between the cost and efficiency of the new day and night police and the old system of parochial watch. He believed it was quite true that some of the parishes paid as much above what they formerly paid as the hon. Gentleman stated, but it was because they did not pay a shilling before, and trusted solely to the watch provided by their neighbours.Sir Robert Peel
704 disclaimed any intention of wishing to influence the decision of the House on that or any other question. The
704The Speaker
 having called the attention of the House to the Petition of the Electors of Stamford, respecting the late election for that Borough,The Speaker
 said, the conduct he had pursued in the matter fully indicated his opinion.The Speaker
 said, there could not well be any affidavits put in respecting the construction of an Act of Parliament.The Speaker
 said, there had been no intention to violate the Act of Parliament; and that the case deserved the favourable consideration of the House.Mr. Hume
742 thought it extremely inconvenient that the House should have to enter into these cases. He was unwilling to exclude persons from the benefits of an enlargement of their recog-
742The Attorney General
 said, that the petitioner had been guilty of gross negligence, and the petition ought not to be received.Mr. Campbell
 concurred in all the praises which had been bestowed on the hon. and learned Baronet. In answer to the question which had been asked by the hon. Member who had just sat down, he had to state, that a gentleman had been appointed to the office referred to, and the papers connected with that appointment were going through the proper department.Mr. G. Lamb
 did not object to the principle of the motion, but he doubted whether further legislation was necessary on a subject already so clearly expressed in the Act of 1793. That, he thought, was so clear as to be understood by every man, woman, and child who could read it, and he was not aware that any doubt had been raised on the subject in any Court of Law.Sir R. H. Inglis
 observed, that from what fell from him on a former evening on this Bill, it seemed to be understood that he was opposed to its progress. This was far from being the case. He gave the Bill his entire assent as far as it went, and his only objection was, that it did not go far enough. The Bill was to render valid all acts of colonial governors performed within six months after the late demise of the Crown, for without such an Act their acts would be invalid, and many of them would be liable to actions. So far he fully concurred, but he thought the Bill ought to go further, and be made general and prospective,—that it should go, not merely to acts done since the late demise of the Crown, but extend to all future cases of a demise of the Crown. He hoped the day was far distant when such an event would occur, but the inevitable hour must come at some time, and it would be much better to make at the present moment a provision which would be applicable to all such events in future, than to have a new Act necessary as each case occurred; for if we did not make provision for it now, we should have to pass a similar bill at a future period. He would therefore suggest that such a provision should be now made applicable to all future cases of a demise of the Crown.Mr. Campbell
 said, that when the reduction of the duty on Beer was proposed, it was said that it would occasion a reduction of the number of Excise Officers, but he understood that no such reduction had yet been made.Mr. Hume
 wished to know to what date those returns were brought down?Mr. Hume
748 said, he was glad to hear the statement of his hon. friend that the office was to be abolished. It was only that day that he received a letter from Dublin, stating that the office was wholly vacant, but that up to then the salary had been continued to the other noble Lord who had held the situation jointly with Lord O'Neil; and he owned he was surprised at what had fallen from a right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Goulburn), who had claimed credit for the late Administration for the intention not to fill up the office. He was glad to find that the credit of the abolition belonged altogether to the new Ministry, and he took it as an earnest of their disposition to practise economy. He was glad to hear what was said by his hon. friend as to the Vice-treasurer of Ireland. His (Mr. Hume's) great object was, to get simplicity in the mode of
748Mr. Hume
l.l.l.;l.,l.;l.l.£2,066,574Total
£2,066,574Total338,711Colonial
338,711Colonial334,327Naval and Military
334,327Naval and Military251,624Diplomatic and Consular
251,624Diplomatic and Consular655,434Civil
655,434Civil466,836Judicial Officers
466,836Judicial Officers££To Officers of the House of Commons
££To Officers of the House of Commons
£2,066,574Total
£2,066,574Total338,711Colonial
338,711Colonial334,327Naval and Military
334,327Naval and Military251,624Diplomatic and Consular
251,624Diplomatic and Consular655,434Civil
655,434Civil466,836Judicial Officers
466,836Judicial Officers££To Officers of the House of Commons
££To Officers of the House of Commonsl.749l.l.l. was glad to hear that a general reduction of salaries was intended. He should wish to hear that every office above 500l.l.l.;l.,l.;l.l.£2,066,574Total
£2,066,574Total338,711Colonial
338,711Colonial334,327Naval and Military
334,327Naval and Military251,624Diplomatic and Consular
251,624Diplomatic and Consular655,434Civil
655,434Civil466,836Judicial Officers
466,836Judicial Officers££To Officers of the House of Commons
££To Officers of the House of Commons
£2,066,574Total
£2,066,574Total338,711Colonial
338,711Colonial334,327Naval and Military
334,327Naval and Military251,624Diplomatic and Consular
251,624Diplomatic and Consular655,434Civil
655,434Civil466,836Judicial Officers
466,836Judicial Officers££To Officers of the House of Commons
££To Officers of the House of Commonsl.749l.l.l.Mr. Flume
 saw no reason for granting the indulgence, and was opposed to the House acting contrary to its own laws.Mr. Ross
750 moved for a return of the number of convictions for the adulteration of Beer from 1827 to the present time. Several most flagrant cases of such adulteration had recently occurred, in one of which the mixture prepared would be more injurious to drink than a bottle of Warren's blacking; and yet some of these publicans were fined only small sums, and still allowed to carry on their nefarious trade. If the loss of the license were in
750Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to know from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Rice) opposite, whether it was the intention of Government to make a considerable reduction of the salaries of public officers. If it were, he would be ready to give the present Government his most cordial support. He had seen appointments such as that to the Clerk of the Council, and other places, which no man having a due regard for the public interest could approve.Colonel Sibthorp
 presented a Petition from Mr. C. Harper, praying that the time for lodging the recognizances might be extended to Thursday next, and praying to be heard in support of the prayer of his petition.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, the House had power to grant the prayer of the petition, and he thought it ought to be granted.Mr. O'Connell
 maintained that the petitioner had not violated the letter of the law. There was nothing in the Act to prevent a petitioner giving in more names than were required, as a prudent precaution in case some of his securities should not be able to pass examination.Mr. O'Connell
 also thought the Parliament ought to enlarge the time for entering into the recognizances.Mr. Littleton
 opposed the petition. There was no reason to depart in this case from the rules prescribed by the Act of Parliament.Sir E. B. Sugden
 thought it impossible by such arguments to get rid of the plain words of the Act.Sir E. B. Sugden
 contended, that the petitioner had not complied with the Act of Parliament, and was not entitled to the indulgence of the House.Mr. Goulburn
 maintained that the Act only mentioned six and four securities as extreme numbers, including the intermediate number.Mr. North
 said, the hon. Baronet had not correctly understood him if he supposed no doubt existed. As to Protestant Dissenters the Act was clear enough, but it was not so with respect to Protestants of the Established Church, and those doubts had been alluded to in the 23rd of George 3rd.Mr. North
744 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend to Protestants of the Established Church in Ireland the provisions of the Irish Statute of the 19th and 20th of George 3rd, cap. 6, permitting Protestant Dissenters to hold office without receiving the sacrament. The Act in question, the benefit of which he wished to extend to Protestants, was originally passed in the reign of Queen Anne, and was subse-
744Mr. North
s. said, that he had no objection to the motion of his hon. friend, but he thought it would be useful to extend it, and to show also the number of 40s.Mr. Leader
 moved that the Committee on this Bill be postponed to Monday.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, his object in postponing the Bill was to give an opportunity to the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill, and who was not now in the House, to consider the very valuable suggestion made by the hon. and learned Gentleman.Mr. Spring Rice
 presented (pursuant to address) an account of the Pensions on the Civil List, and several other papers relating to Salaries of Public Offices.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, in answer to the hon. Member's question, he could only say, that it was the intention of Government to make great reductions in every department of the public service. At the same time he would submit to the hon. Member to defer such questions as that he had put till those of his Majesty's confidential advisers who were Members of that House should be in their places, and not apply to an individual holding the humble office that he held.Mr. Spring Rice
747 said, they were down to last June. There were among the papers some Treasury Minutes relating to the office of Vice-treasurer of Ireland. These,
747Mr. Spring Rice
 said, that he did not object to the Motion, but he hoped, as the hon. Member had not given notice of it, he would let it stand as a notice for Monday, by which time he should make inquiry as to the quarter from which the return could be made. A return was ordered the other day, which, on inquiry, he found would occupy three clerks, at the highest salary, for 365 days, to complete.Mr. Spring Rice
l.l.,l.,745 rose, pursuant to the notice he had
l.l.,l.,745Mr. Wyse
 thought the hon. Member's speech a mere attempt at special pleading. The law was clear and positive, and admitted not of any such interpretation.Sir R. Peel
 said, there was a manifest inconvenience in laying down rules if they were not to be adhered to. The petitioner had urged that he had never read the Act of Parliament; but if the House extended the time on such a plea, it was giving a manifest advantage to the negligent.Sir R. Peel
 was well pleased that he had withdrawn his limited measure last year, and thus given the hon. and learned Baronet an opportunity of introducing his more comprehensive plan. If any odium were likely to be excited, in any quarter, by the introduction of this measure, he was perfectly ready to take his share of it. He thought the measure would be found extremely beneficial.Mr. Kennedy
 recapitulated the case to the House, and stated, that the petitioner had been duly informed of what was required by the Act.The Speaker
 acquainted the House that Charles Harper, who had presented a petition on the 16th of November, complaining of an undue election for the Borough of Tregony, had not entered into the recognizances required by the Act of Parliament.The Speaker
 approved of the measure, because it tended to simplify the cumbrous machinery of this portion of the law. The country was highly indebted to the exertions of the hon. and learned Baronet, who had recently retired without provision from the laborious situation which he had so ably filled. He wished to know whether any person had been appointed to that office? In his opinion, the hon. and learned Baronet ought to be placed in the first high official situation which became vacant.Sir M. S. Stewart
l.743 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the laws regarding the taking of Enfeoffments in heritable property in Scotland. The hon. and learned Baronet described the state of those laws, as they at present existed, as loudly calling for amendment. By the measure which he meant to propose, the parties executing enfeoffments would be protected against the risk and expense to which they were
l.743Sir W. Rae
 thought that no favour should be granted unless the petitioner could show that he had taken every precaution to avoid a breach of the law. The dismissal of the petition would not prevent the House trying the validity of the election.Lord Palmerston
 said, that in his knowledge of five Advocates-general that had been sent out to India, two were Irish. The only persons who had reason to complain (the Irish having a fair share in those appointments) were the Scotch. He repeated, though it was not generally so supposed, that no persons had more reason than the Scotch to complain of exclusion from judicial offices.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 presented a Petition from the Town of Armagh, praying for Parliamentary Reform. He stated, that the persons who had signed the petition constituted the most respectable and intelligent portion of the inhabitants of that town, and the conduct of the meeting, at which the petition was agreed to, was most rational and moderate. The petitioners, amongst other allegations, complained that, under the present mode of election, those who possess the right of suffrage are compelled to vote at the will of their landlords, or other powerful persons, for the candidate of whom they do not approve; and they believed that the independence of voters might be effectually maintained if the vote were taken by ballot. He thought it right to mention that the petitioners had requested the members for the county of Armagh to transfer the petition to the hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) if they themselves could not support its prayer. Now, for his part, he (Mr. Brownlow) could not be induced to make up his mind, 'on the spur of the moment' for the gratification of presenting any petition; and, therefore, if his mind had not already been made up on the subject of that petition, he would have declined to present it. But as he had considered the matter, and entirely concurred in the statements of the petitioners respecting the necessity of the ballot, he found no difficulty in presenting and supporting their petition. He was anxious that every man who had the right to vote should be enabled to use that right in accordance with his conscience.Mr. Brownlow
 supported the Petition. He was convinced that the representation throughout was corrupt, and he hoped to see that House entirely reformed.Mr. Cresset Pelham
772 had been solicited to support the petition. There were few boroughs in which the franchise was limited in a manner more grievous and unconstitutional than in the town of Armagh. The right of voting was possessed by only twelve inhabitants, and they held offices in the Corporation, to which they were appointed by an ecclesiastical dignitary. He complimented the noble Lord (Acheson) for his talents, and for the candour with which he had stated his opinions. In answer to the noble Lord's objection, that the ballot, without some more effectual security, would not promote the independence of the vote, he (Mr. O'Connell) must say, that, if so, it would at all events not make matters worse than they are. In fact, allowing the utmost force to the noble Lord's objection, the ballot could not fail to do some good. If it could not effect the concealment of all the votes, it could not fail to conceal a great number. Secresy would be secured, at least for those voters who stood in need of it. As to what had been said respecting the inefficacy of the ballot in America, it should be borne in mind that there can be no very extensive corruption of voters in that country, for
772Mr. O'Connell
 supported the petition, and expressed his hope that Gentlemen who had frequently advocated the cause of reform and retrenchment in that House, and who now had the power of promoting it by their exertions in the other House, and by the influence of the Government, would set a noble example by the surrender of their own patronage. He expressed himself favourable to the vote by ballot, and declared that it was necessary for the national security that measures should be taken as speedily as possible to reform the Parliament. He also expressed his confidence in the Ministry, but he was firmly persuaded that no Ministry could remain in office who did not pluck up corruption by the roots.Sir H. Bunbury
773 presented Petitions from the inhabitants of Bray, in the county of Wicklow; of Grange Gorman, in the county of Dublin; and of other places in Ireland; and from the Carpet Weavers of the City of Dublin, praying for a Repeal of the Act of Union of Great Britain and Ireland. The noble Lord could not support the prayer of the petitioners. He was convinced that the measure which they desired would, if carried into effect, involve Ireland in civil commotions and in bloodshed. Perhaps some partial benefit might be derived to the City of Dublin from being again the seat
773Lord Brabazon
 presented a similar Petition from the inhabitants of Naas, in the County of Kildare, also complaining of extreme distress, which the petitioners attributed chiefly to the consequences of that Act. The hon. Gentleman could not support the petition, which, however, he had thought it his duty to present. The petitioners thought that a repeal of the Union, would produce a Reform of Parliament, and an amendment of the tithe system; but he hoped that these objects would be effected without the repeal of the Union, and he had great confidence that the present Ministry would do much for the country.Mr. O'Ferrall
775 hoped, that as he was the individual whose statement as to the opinion of the people of Galway, on the subject of the Union, was alluded to, he
775Sir J. Bourke
776 rose for the purpose of showing, that the most strenuous opposers of the Union in the Irish Parliament were clearly of opinion that, once completed, it was indissoluble. He wished to call the attention of the House to a letter from the predecessor of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite in the representation of the county of Waterford. [The right hon. Baronet then read an extract from the letter in question, distinctly showing, that the opinion of that Gentleman was directly adverse to any agitation of the question of a repeal of the Union at the present moment, or at any time; for he had never ceased to regard that measure as irrevocable.] Such was the opinion, he also stated, of all the public men at the period when that measure was agreed to. Both from their speeches in Parliament, and from the evidence which remained of their private meetings, there could not be a shadow of doubt that Mr. Ponsonby, Chief Justice Bushe, Lord Plunkett, Lord Oriel, and all the great men of that period agreed, that if the measure were once carried, the idea of repealing it would be perfectly visionary. He hesitated not to say, that he himself had always looked upon the Union as irrevocable. He was old enough to remember the proceedings of that local Parliament which it was thus vainly sought to restore; and he could well remember that the country under its government, was in such a state of confusion and anarchy that he believed it could no where else be paralleled—the country was in such a state that no peaceable man could live in it. He deprecated most earnestly the agitation of the question of the Union, for he looked on it as sure to produce results which could not
776Sir John Newport
 wished to say, that as he found the subject of Salaries and Pensions had been taken up by the Minister in whose hands it could be most successfully prosecuted, it was his intention to forego bringing that subject before the House, according to a notice he had given on a preceding evening. He would at the same time give notice of his intention, after Christmas, to lay certain facts before the House relative to the state of the country; and he trusted that the House would adopt them, as they were facts—not opinions. It was also his intention to move the repeal of the house and window taxes, though he trusted that the Government would take this matter on itself.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 disclaimed all idea of taking advantage of his right hon. friend's absence, for the purpose of mentioning any statement. What he had said had referred to Lord Ross, and not to Lord O'Neil, and the resignation of the former was made to the present First Lord of the Treasury; so that, of course, his right hon. friend could not know of that. If he had been aware that it was the intention of the former Government to abolish the office, he should not have withheld that information from the House.Mr. Rice
784783 was understood to say, that the paper describing the salaries and pensions of public officers had created a great sensation in the public, and was calculated, if uncontradicted, and if unexplained, to shake the general confidence in all public men, and even in the Legislature. He wished that the paper should be examined, by a Committee, and if so examined he was sure that none of the objectionable items would be found to belong to the last ten or fifteen years. He wished that that paper should be brought
784783Mr. Baring
 wished the inquiry, should one be gone into, to be extended to Ireland. The distress of the people there was very great. When he saw the comfort of the English people, he was astonished at their complaints and disturbances. The Irish had nothing but a few potatoes and salt to live on, and wretched cabins to dwell in.Mr. Owen O'Connor
790 complained of Con-
790Sir John Bourke
 implored the House, as it was about to vote away the produce of the taxes, to direct its attention to economy, and by all means to endeavour to manage the income and expenditure in such a manner as to allow of the repeal of the Malt-tax, which now pressed so severely on the agricultural classes.Mr. P. Howard
l., condemned the extravagance of the Estimates for the Army, and observed, that at the commencement of the American war the whole annual amount required for the Army was only 613,000l.,Mr. Cresset Pelham
 gave the Government credit for its candour, but protested against any further expenditure, as the regulations with respect to trade would render the canal totally useless for the purposes which were originally contemplated. No commodities, such as the canal was intended to convey, would now be required from Canada.Mr. Warburton
l. also protested against any further expenditure of British capital on the canal, and ridiculed the idea of fortifying 1,700 miles of frontier at the expense of 5,000,000l.Mr. Maberly
795 had, from a conviction of its necessity, always voted for this expenditure on the canal and fortifications, and he was still prepared to contend that; they should be completed. It was the duty of the Government to provide for the adequate defence of its possessions; and by no other means than those now in progress could they procure a thoroughly defensible line of frontier, although he was not prepared to say that the Government might not have been much deceived with
795Mr. Labouchere
l.l.; defended the conduct of the late Government with respect to Canada and the Rideau Canal; and contended that it had never agreed to advance a single shilling without calling on a Board of Engineers to examine the works, and make a report of their condition, and the probable expense of completing them. The original sum stated to be required for the canal was only 150,000l.l.;Mr. Goulburn
 repeated his protest against the expenditure of so much British capital upon the fortification of the frontier line of Canada.Mr. Maberly
l.l. was sure that it would be found, on inquiry, that the Rideau Canal expense had been much exaggerated as compared with its advantages. It should be borne in mind, that the mere transport expense of the British army in the last war with America up the St. Lawrence was very nearly 1,000,000l.l.Sir H. Hardinge
 concurred in opinion upon the subject with his hon. friend the member for Bridport.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l.793 agreed with the hon. Member respecting the propriety of having estimates of every work laid before the House when it was called on to vote the
l.793Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, he understood, from good authority, that the architect employed in the erection of Buckingham Palace had sent in an account for one quarter, greater by some thousands than the sum originally required for the whole of the improvements. He understood that an immense sum was yet required to complete that palace; but he hoped that the present Ministers, before they made any demand for that purpose, would take care to ascertain by estimate what was the probable amount required for this purpose. It was but justice to the late Ministers to say that they had, on learning the return of the expenditure going on, ordered the works to be suspended, but he thought it would have been more to their credit if they had given that order during the life of the late King, rather than after the accession of the present Sovereign. He trusted, however, that the time was passed when they would be required to vote money for estimates prepared in secret. The precedents of that kind were productive of bad effects, and should be carefully avoided.Mr. Warburton
 explained and defended the conduct of Lord Gage, as it had been already explained and defended by his Lordship in the public prints. He wished to suggest that, should a committee be appointed, it would be proper to inquire into the sums of money expended out of the poor-rates for litigation.Mr. Long Wellesley
l.l. protested against the expenditure of money in such a lavish manner, without the prospect of coining to any termination. They had already expended a sum of above 900,000l.l.Colonel Sibthorp
 was of opinion, that the country was in an alarming crisis, and if any proof were wanting of the correctness of the reports that were circulated in the newspapers, it might be found in the circumstance that a great number of Members of that House had received leave of absence on account of the disturbed state of those parts of the country with which they were connected. He wished to say nothing of the defunct, though not absent Ministry; but he believed, that all the economy and reductions for which they took credit had been forced on them by that House echoing the demands of the people.Colonel Sibthorp
 presented a Petition from John Howard, of Portarlington, for Parliamentary Reform, stating, that out of a population of 5,000 or 6,000 in that borough, there were only fourteen persons entitled to vote. The hon. Member added, that he was satisfied with the statement of his hon. friend as to the office of Vice-treasurer of Ireland; but much of his present labour in other departments might be easily transferred to two Prothonotaries, who were receiving large salaries with but slight duties attached to them. He had now also to present four petitions for Reform—one from Glastonbury, signed by Mr. H. Hunt, as lord of that manor; another from the Society of Radical Reformers meeting at the Rotunda; another from reformers at Stockport, and a fourth from reformers at Ipswich. They prayed for a great extension of the elective franchise, and for vote by ballot. One of the petitions expressed their joy that the Tories had gone out of office, but their dissatisfaction that the Whigs had come in, for they suspected that, when in office, they might forget the promises made when out of it. The measures of the Whigs, the petitioners stated, had been most injurious to the country—they had begun the national debt, they were the authors of the Excise, and of Septennial Parliaments, as well as of many other abuses. The petitioners, therefore, prayed the House to watch the Whig Administration narrowly. He hoped and believed, that the petitioners would find themselves mistaken with respect to the present Ministers. They had on that evening given an earnest of their disposition to economy, and were the only Administration which had ever come in on a pledge to maintain peace abroad, and to effect reduction and reform at home.Mr. O'Connell
778 moved for a return of the number and names of persons who had been sent out in judicial capacities to the East Indies and the British colonies, from the 1st of January, 1801, to the present time, with the dates of their appointment, the amount of salary, and, as nearly as could be made out, the amount of their other emoluments, and the Bar, whether English,
778Mr. O'Connell
 wished to put a question to his hon. friend opposite, relative to the situation of Vice-treasurer of Ireland. Amongst the papers laid on the Table, there was a Treasury Minute relative to that office, which it had been proposed to abolish. But on looking at the Act of Parliament, he found that the office, under the provisions of the Statute, could not be abolished. He therefore requested to know what was meant to be done.Mr. O'Connell
 then adverted to the impression which had been made on the public mind by the reports which had been published of the salaries and pensions enjoyed by public men, and the reports which had been circulated of the intention of the present Ministers to reduce them, which, if allowed to be circulated without some explanation, might have some bad effect. He knew what was the wish of the House, and he knew in what manner the present Government was pledged to encourage economy; at the same time he thought the House ought not to forget what had been effected by former Administrations. It was only justice to former Governments to remind the House of what they had done, and he determined when he heard the hon. Members opposite taking such credit to themselves for reducing the situations of Vice-treasurer and Postmaster-general of Ireland, to make a statement of the reductions which had been made by the former Administration. It was his intention to have made such a statement on the present, occasion, but finding the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in his place, he should postpone it, and take the earliest opportunity, when it was convenient, to make it. Such a statement ought to be made. It was equally due to the dignity and character of the late Administration and the House of Commons.Mr. George Dawson
 was willing to give the present Government credit for their reductions, but they must carry them much further than at present to surpass the reductions of the last Government.Mr. George Dawson
780 said, that he wished to say a few words relative to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman on a former night, concerning the Post-master-general of Ireland, and at which time he did pot happen to be in the House. He did
780Mr. Goulburn
 said, that Lord Ross had only held the office till the legal difficulties could be removed; and when that took place it was determined to abolish the office.Sir H. Hardinge
s.d.s.s. said, Lord Gage was a most upright and honourable man, and he was satisfied that no blame whatever could be justly imputed to that nobleman. He denied that it was the practice to pay wages out of poor-rates in Sussex, but he wished to ask, how it was possible that a man who was earning 12s.d.s.s.Mr. Curteis
 professed his determination to divide the House as often as its forms would permit, if any attempt was made in the present state of the country, to obtain money for carrying on the erection of two palaces at the same time.Mr. Curteis
794 assured the House that the strictest economy would be adopted in
794Mr. Spring Rice
792 begged to remind the hon. Member, that the sum now required was for the purpose of defraying expenses already incurred. It should also be recollected, that when this subject was mentioned in connexion with the Estimates of the year on a former occasion, the House refused to sanction the expenditure of any further sums until a committee was appointed to inquire into the nature of the Estimates and the state of the works. That committee was accordingly appointed, and its Report was now on the Table of the House. He could assure the hon. Member, and the House, that the suggestions contained in it would be maturely weighed before the Government attempted to come before them for any further sums on the same account. No such Estimate was yet formed or determined on; but he was
792Mr. Spring Rice
779l.l.l.l.l. said, that though the office could not be abolished, still the contemplated saving would be effected. At present the Vice-treasurer had 2,000779l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Spring Rice
 also wished that a committee should be appointed, and that its researches should be extended to Ireland. The arm of justice was about to fall on the extremely poor, and he thought that care should be taken to heal the wounds which might be inflicted. The committee ought to be appointed immediately.Mr. O'Brien
s.s.,s.,789s. complained of the unjust interference of the parish officers with the labourers' wages, and condemned the payment of wages out of the poor-rates. The hon. Member referred to the conduct of Lord Gage, but was set right by being informed that the noble Lord had explained that matter in the newspapers. He had heard that many people had only 1s.s.,s.,789s.Mr. Ormsby Gore
 hoped it would be understood that he attributed the present condition of the agricultural classes to no particular persons, nor did he speak of it as caused by the fault of any body of men. He was afraid that the condition of the agricultural labourers had been gradually deteriorating for several years past but he did not attribute that as a fault to any one class. He wished it also to be understood, that he had never once thought or said, that the deterioration in the condition of the agricultural labourers was caused by the conduct of the upper classes.Sir Robert Peel
787 thought the hon. Gentleman had shown, by his own observations, that such an inquiry as he had recommended would be vague and unsatisfactory. He had mentioned one topic on which he desired a special inquiry, namely, the operation of taxation in producing the general distress. For that he wanted a Special Committee. If a committee were appointed to inquire into the causes of the general distress, that cause would undergo investigation; and was he to be told that it would be possible for one committee to inquire into all the causes of distress? That one committee would have to inquire into the effect of the Corn-laws—of the Poor-laws—into the effect of taxation; and, after having inquired into the effects of all these things, it would have to find out remedies for the distress. If, however, a committee could be appointed to inquire into the subjects mentioned by the hon. member for Calling-ton, he thought it would be beneficial. The time was come when it would be most expedient for the House to institute some inquiry into the state of the agricultural districts, and into the causes of the disturbances in the southern counties; and particularly into the practical operation and administration of the Poor-laws. An inquiry, limited to the defects of the administration of those laws, might be most useful, and he would willingly go into it, without any reference to party or politics, but solely with a view to better the condition of the labouring classes. It was of great importance to get a few facts, so that the present condition of the labourer in some counties—in the weald of Kent and Sussex, for example—might be contrasted with his condition in other counties, under different physical circumstances, and with his condition in past times. He should like, also, to contrast
787Sir Robert Peel
788 for one, courted a full inquiry into all the particulars of the county he represented. Justice would not be done to the landowners and the farmers unless such an inquiry were instituted. Charges had been made against them which ought to be refuted, and which he was sure a Committee would refute. The actual state of the tenantry and of their landlords ought to be ascertained. It was said—most unjustly he believed — that rents were too high, and must be re-
788Sir E. Knatchbull
 was desirous of asking the noble Lord a question with respect to the Adjournment for the holidays. He did not wish to embarrass the noble Lord, but it was of great importance to hon. Members, with reference both to private bills and to election petitions, to know when it was intended to move the Adjournment, and for what length of time.Sir E. Knatchbull
786785 remembered, that the hon. member for Callington had been one of those who last Session resisted an inquiry into the state of the country, which was then proposed. There was no subject of more importance, which called more earnestly for the deliberations of the House, than the condition of the labouring classes, with a view to remedy their distress. He and others thought such an inquiry necessary last year; but the hon.
786785Mr. George Robinson
 said, the expenses already incurred were more than four times in excess over the original estimate; and it should be recollected, that the work was commenced on the assurance of the Government, that the expense was to be kept within the Estimate. He protested against the doctrine of the hon. Baronet, that they were bound to go on with this extravagant expenditure because they had already assented to it in so many instances before. Such language was always held to that House when the Government wished to procure money to gratify a taste for architectural extravagance. At the time when they were called on to make a large grant for the triumphal arch opposite Buckingham Palace the very same language was used; and it was argued that as a very large sum had already been expended (without any estimate be it recollected), they were bound to grant the money required, lest the first sum should be lost. In his opinion, it would be much better that the first expense should be lost than that they should, in the present state of the country, persist in such foolish extravagance. He hoped that, at all events, the present Government would adopt a different course, and that they would produce a full and satisfactory estimate of every work before they called on that House to advance money for the purpose of carrying it on.Mr. George Robinson
782 wished to take that opportunity of stating that, he hoped the present Ministers would continue to enforce that rigid economy with which they had begun. If they should zealously pursue the course they had marked out for themselves, they would be entitled to, and
782Sir George Warrender
 expressed a hope that Windsor Castle, the ancient Palace of our Sovereigns, would, now that the country had gone so far, be thoroughly repaired, and rendered fit for the residence of the Monarch. He felt that the situation of the country required the most rigid economy; but he was confident that real economy would be more effectually consulted by the completion of the edifice than by leaving it in its present state. He was quite confident that it was the wish of the great majority of the people of this country, that this ancient and splendid edifice should be placed in a proper condition; and he thought, that as they had engaged in the work, and already spent a very considerable sum, they were in some degree bound to complete it.Sir G. Warrender
 said, he agreed with the member for Sussex (Mr. Curteis), that an inquiry should be made into the state of the agricultural interests; and that means should be taken to afford the labourer a fair rate of wages without injuring the farming or landed interests. He could not agree with the member for Callington in his view of the state of the country, which he considered to be in a state of lawless insubordination, and till that was put down, he could have little hope of any good arising by any other means proposed.Mr. A. Trevor
 answered, that the day of Adjournment must depend upon the progress of public business. As far as he was able to judge, he thought that the Adjournment might probably take place about the 16th inst. It was impossible for him, however, to state the precise day. What the probable length of the Adjournment might be he could not exactly say. He was sure that it must be generally felt, that in the existing state of the country the presence of hon. Gentlemen for a time in their respective counties was exceedingly desirable; and that they would be almost more useful there than in their places in that House. It was also expedient that the Members of his Majesty's Government should have the means of looking round them, and arranging the various measures which it would be their duty to propose to Parliament. It was probable, therefore, that the Adjournment would be for as long a period as was consistent with the practice of the House.Lord Palmerston
798 inquired what course his Majesty's Ministers meant to pursue with respect to the Civil List—was it to be brought immediately before the House, or was it to be postponed till after the new
798Sir H. Purnell
 said, that he presumed that the House was very well aware that Ministers disapproved of the mode in which the Civil List had been made up by their predecessors in office. Nevertheless, they did not as yet feel themselves justified, upon their own responsibility, to take into consideration what alterations ought to be made in the Civil List, and he trusted that the House would be good enough to give them time to take the subject in hand, and to produce the plan which they might wish ultimately to prevail. What he now proposed to do was, to ask of the House to grant a sum on account, until he was prepared with a permanent measure. The House was well aware, and gentlemen who had recently been in office must be peculiarly aware, that it was absolutely necessary for him to have a certain degree of time, in order to be prepared to enter into the question of the Civil List, in a manner satisfactory to that House, and satisfactory to the public. Very early after the recess, he would bring forward his proposition, and would endeavour to meet the wishes of the public, while he provided for the dignity of the Crown.Lord Althorp
 opposed the Motion, on the ground that the expense and inconvenience which would be incurred by such a return was infinitely disproportioned to any advantage that could be derived from it.Mr. Bankes
806 trusted that this most important subject would meet with greater attention than it did in the last Session of Parliament. To judge, however, from the conduct of hon. Members during the discussion this evening, he could hardly flatter himself that this would be the case. He was quite satisfied that if any one had come into the House while the hon. member for Ayr was moving for leave to introduce these bills, he would never have supposed that any real or important business was under discussion, for during the time that his hon. and learned friend was addressing the House, he was perfectly sure that only those who were sitting close to him could have formed the slightest idea of the subject upon which he was speaking. The confusion was so great, that not one word of the first part of his hon. friend's address could be heard, even by those who sat only a very short distance from him. It was not upon this occasion only that he had to complain of the inattention and manifest indifference of the majority of those hon. Members who appeared to come to the House only to amuse themselves, by conversing upon subjects not connected with the business of the House. What with the talking, laughing-, and general inattention of the greater part of the House, it was quite impossible that matters of this kind,—more dry than interesting, perhaps, to those who sought only entertainment, but not on that account the less important—could be maturely or properly considered. The measures to which his hon. and learned friend had endeavoured to call the attention of the House were very important as regarded Scotland." There had been nothing like them since the period of the Union, because by them it was proposed to put an end to the system upon which the property of Scotland had hitherto rested. Although it was not his intention to oppose these measures, he was of opinion that there would be some objection to their being carried the length which his hon. and learned friend proposed. The subject required the utmost consideration, and he would therefore entreat for it the most serious attention of the Members of every part of the kingdom. Some change was necessary in this branch of the Scotch law, because all the purposes for which the law of entail was originally made have been defeated by subsequent Acts of Parliament. The principle of the old law,
806Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 moved to discharge the Order which had been made for certain Returns respecting the Metropolitan Police, for the purpose of substituting a more extended Motion, in the form of an Address, including Returns of all Monies collected in the several Districts of the Metropolis for the payment of the Police Force now in existence; also, for Returns of the former Expenses of Nightly Watch and Day Police, with an account of all sums expended in preparing Station Houses, &c. &c.Mr. Lamb
l.;l.l.;l.l.l. observed, that notwithstanding the police was said to be so good, the people would not in many cases give up their private watchmen; and with that the increase of expense was very great. Thus in Newington, Lambeth, the rates had been raised from 3,000l.;l.l.;l.l.l.Mr. Wilks
809 undertook to obtain all possible information from parochial authorities, and otherwise, respecting the
809Mr. Lamb
l. moved the second reading of the Charitable Institutions' Bill, in doing which he observed, that Charitable Institutions were exposed to very great hardships, and the designs of the benevolent were defeated to a very great extent, in consequence of the right assumed by Parochial Authorities, of making an assessment for Poor-rates upon property that was, and ought to be, exclusively devoted to charitable purposes. Bethlehem Hospital was rated at 2,500l.Alderman Thompson
l. said, he had been intrusted with a petition to present against the Bill. He had been informed that the Bethlehem Hospital trustees had realised property from their surplus income to the amount of 14,000l.Mr. N. Calvert
 said, that it was distinctly enacted, that all charitable institutions should be liable to pay rates, and he did not see any good reason why the Hospitals in St. George's parish should be exempted from that rule.Mr. Wilks
 would oppose the Bill, but he recommended that a middle course should be adopted, and the Hospital pay the rates on a reduced scale.Mr. Hughes Hughes
 thought, that the hon. Gentleman had contented himself with merely counting the clauses, without reading them; for, if he had done so, he would have found that almost all the provisions he spoke of were introduced. He meant to support the second reading of the Bill. At the same time, he thought that the details were too much loaded. The two great points that were required were the legalizing the sale of game, so that the public should be supplied; and the equalizing the law for the poor and the rich. At present there was one law for an opulent man, and another for those who were not wealthy. He wished also that every owner of land should have the power to give permission to sport over it to whomever he pleased.Colonel Wood
812 thought, that the present Bill was a great improvement on any previous one, though he did not think that it reached that point of simplicity and justice which was necessary. For himself, he had always thought that the system of the Game-laws had been most pernicious to the interests of the country. With respect to qualifications, he thought that this Bill did not go far enough; besides, there was every reason to expect that the law would be evaded on this head; and the point they ought to look to was, to make a law that should so agree with the pervading spirit of the times as not to make people desirous of evading it. He hoped the Bill might be so amended in the
812Lord J. Russell
 congratulated the House and the country that the time had at length arrived when they had a prospect of getting rid of the Game-laws—laws the most disgraceful and odious that ever existed. He certainly did not think the Bill perfect in its present shape, but he hoped that it might be so modified in the committee as to be made acceptable to the country. He thought the Government could on no account neglect to take the measure into its own hands, or at least give it such support as to ensure its success. The Game-laws filled our gaols with men guilty of no crime worthy of such a punishment; and though he did not wholly approve of the present Bill, he would cheerfully assent to it, on the principle of entering the small end of the wedge, and hereafter driving it home. He knew of no such laws as our Game-laws in any other country, unless, indeed, it was in some of the Islands of the Pacific Ocean. He had read in Mariner's account of the Tonga Islands, that there the rats were preserved as game; and though everybody might eat rats, nobody was allowed to kill them, but somebody descended from their gods or their kings. That was the only country and the only case he knew of, which furnished anything like a parallel to our Game-laws. He was satisfied that the time was at length come when these laws would be abolished; and he hoped the House would now read the Bill a second time, resolved to amend it in the committee.Mr. Warburton
 explained, that he was no more friendly, to those laws than the hon. Member, and he did not think that he gave his approbation to them by supporting a Bill to amend them.Mr. Warburton
 hoped that the Bill might be extended to Ireland, as it would confer great benefits on that country.Sir Robert Bateson
 said, that the hon. member for Coventry had not treated him fairly, in describing his Bill as a provocative to crime: he meant it to prevent crime. His own preserves, which had been alluded to, were not kept, as had been insinuated, by an army, but by the good will of the farmers; and he relied on that much more than an armed keeper for the security of his game. As to what had been said by the hon. Member who had not read the Bill, he could assure him that he was not to be deterred by any sneers from proceeding with the Bill, or from proceeding with any measure which would give relief to the labourers, to whom he was as friendly as the hon. Member, or any other hon. Gentleman.The Marquis of Chandos
816 shared the hon. Member's opinions as to the Averages, and thought the Return would be useful. He must
816Mr. Curteis
 also thought, that the crops of last year were not so deplorably bad as the hon. Gentleman stated. He admitted that the averages were fallacious, but he could not agree that the Corn-laws were altogether wrong. It was necessary to give protection to the agriculturists, but he thought that protection might probably be better given by a regular fixed duty than by the present method of taking the averages.Mr. Ruthven
814 expressed his astonishment at the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down. He was astonished that the hon. Gentleman should have taken such an extraordinary method of making himself known to the House, as to oppose a Bill which he acknowledged he had not read. The principle of the Bill was, to render game saleable, which it had never yet been in this country, and that would be a great boon. Everybody agreed that the time was come when an alteration should be made in the Game-Jaws, and nobody supposed that that re-
814Mr. William Duncombe
 would be happy to support a measure for abolishing the Game-laws; but he could not support this measure, because it did not go far enough. He wished, indeed, that there should be no amendment of these laws, in order that their enormities might the sooner bring about their total abolition. The Bill did not go far enough, and Members would be disposed to go further if they only remembered that those laws were the remains of a barbarous age, and of an odious and barbarous system of tyranny. It would only be necessary to keep the laws unaltered a little longer to get rid of them altogether. The hon. Member had spoken of this Bill as a boon; he did not so consider it, for he thought the law of trespass was all that was required to protect game. He had not read the Bill, but he knew what it was, and he should oppose the Bill at every stage. He was not known to the House, but he would divide it on this question, in order that the country might see how many Members would commit themselves to the principle of the Bill, and how many would support the total abolition. The hon. Member concluded by moving that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. C. Tennant
 withdrew his Amendment. Bill read a second time.Mr. C. Tennant
 inquired of the hon member for Armagh, whether there was any truth in the report that the late Administration had procured the addition of several names to the Pension List, after the head of that Ministry had virtually resigned?Mr. Tennyson
l. said, that as far as he was personally concerned he should waive any opposition to the plan proposed. He wished to put one question to his Majesty's Ministers, founded upon a report that had got abroad. Was Sir Anthony Hart about to retire from the Chancellorship of Ireland? and if he was, he wished to know whether he did or did not retire with his own consent? He knew that a little gentle violence had been necessary, but at length it had been successful, before a noble Lord, lately an hon. Member of that House could be persuaded to take the Great Seal of England, and he believed a very little of the same kind of force would be sufficient to make Sir A. Hart remain in office, and save the country a considerable sum. A pension of 4,000l.Mr. G. Dawson
 said, that he believed one pension had been granted on the morning of the day on which the late Ministry resigned. He had not heard of more than one such grant.Mr. Goulburn
 supported the Bill. The whole of the funds of such an institution ought to be applied to charitable purposes.Mr. Alderman Winchester
 supported the second reading of the Bill, on the understanding that more alterations would take place in the committee. The fundamental principle that he would lay down was, that it was the first right of every individual to do what he would with the game on his own property, whether that property consisted of one acre or a thousand. He wished the sale of game to be permitted, and he would abolish all manorial rights.Mr. Curteis
 opposed the Bill, because he thought that the rates would then fall too heavily upon the poor inhabitants of the district.Mr. Briscoe
 said, that the Motion was attended with a difficulty which could not be got over. No one in that House, much less the town clerks of the several boroughs, could undertake to say who had and who had not a right to vote at elections for Members of Parliament. The House would not delegate to the persons mentioned in the hon. Gentleman's motion, the exercise of its exclusive right.Mr. Croker
 said it would be better to appoint a new committee.Mr. Croker
 explained, that the expense of obtaining the returns which he desired would not exceed the cost of 100 letters and 100 replies; that being the number of the town clerks from whom the information was to be obtained.Mr. Hodgson
802 consented to withdraw the Motion until Tuesday next, in order to
802Mr. Hodgson
 moved for a return to be made by the Town Clerk of every city and borough in England and Ireland returning Members to Parliament, wherein the right of election is solely or in part in the free burgesses or freemen at large, of the number of persons entitled to the freedom of such city or borough, who have taken up their freedom within the last four years.Mr. Hodgson
 thought, on the contrary, that if the institutions were exonerated, the charge it now sustained would fall on poor householders, and would be ruin to them.Mr. Maberly
800 said, that he had heard the proposition of the noble Lord with very great pleasure, and he felt convinced that the proposition of the noble Lord would be well received by that House, and, what was of greater importance, by the country at large. That Ministers should take a vote of credit in order to give themselves time to re-model the Civil List, and to ascertain how far they could meet the wishes of the country for retrenchment, was a proposition reasonable in itself, and nothing could be better calculated to ensure the approbation of the people out of doors, and to ensure likewise, not the approbation of "the party" within Parliament, but of the no-party to which he belonged,—the no-party, which never meant to combine in any opposition to Ministers, with a view of getting round again to those places out of which they had just been turned by the voice of the country. Considering the quarter from which the objection came,—from a person who had so lately been the leader of that House, and in occupation of a place on the Ministerial Benches,—he thought, of all men on earth, the hon. Baronet ought to be the last to throw unnecessary impediments in the way of the noble Lord. Such seemed to him to be the conduct of the hon. Baronet, who appeared to him to have said, "I will give Ministers no time whatever to prepare a Civil List,—a
800Mr. J. Wood
 thought the hon. Member who opposed the Bill, and who, he knew, had paid much attention to this subject out of doors, had mistaken its operation, and the effect of rejecting it. The hon. Member was probably not aware that, by rejecting the Bill at that stage, he implied that he was hostile to its principle, or hostile to the improvement of the Game-laws. He recommended that the Bill should be made as perfect as possible in the committee. In his own opinion, the owner of land should be the owner of the game on it; and a man with a single rood of ground should be as well entitled to kill game on it as the owner of many acres. As to tenants, their right to kill game should be settled, like their other rights, by contract. On these principles —principles which he considered just—he would amend the Bill; and if it were not passed this year, many months would not elapse before it would be found as expedient to pass a bill so amended, as the Bill itself would be just in principle.Mr. John Wood
808 took that occasion to advert to the state of the disturbed districts in the vicinity of the metropolis, and of other parts of the country in the same condition, urging the necessity of issuing Special Commissions for all those Counties in which there had been disturbances for the trial of offenders. He wished to press upon his Majesty's Government the necessity which existed of making such arrangements as would pre-
808Mr. Ridley Colborne
 thought it best to withdraw the papers before the committee, and to substitute others.Mr. Courtenay
811l. complained of the cumbrous form in which this Bill was submitted to the House. In his opinion, it would be quite sufficient to make every man a trespasser who came on another man's land with a gun in his hand. With respect to qualifications, he thought the whole system was bad: a man with 100,000811l.Mr. Fyler
 explained, that he said the Game-laws, and not the noble Lord's Bill, were a provocative to crime.Mr. Fyler
:—Mr. Speaker, I never heard such a speech as that in my life. Is it for the hon. Gentleman, because I chose to put a question to his Majesty's Ministers on the course they means to pursue, to lecture me?—Does the hon. Gentleman consider himself entitled to lecture me, I say, upon throwing impediments in the way of his Majesty's Government? Impediments!—what impediments have I thrown in the way of the noble Lord? The noble Lord may, perhaps be perfectly reasonable, perfectly right in his wish that Government should have time to consider what Civil List they will propose to the Committee, and that the Committee shall not meet until the proposition is ready to be made. But what I say is, that an order of the House is already made that a Select Committee be appointed, and yet the noble Lord says he shall not be prepared to make any proposal to that Committee until after the Christmas recess, and therefore two months must elapse before the Committee can sit with effect. If this be so, surely there ought to be some distinct proceeding on the part of the House to sanction the non-meeting of the Committee. The hon. Gentleman says, because I was against the appointment of that Committee, I ought to be ready to acquiesce in the proposal of the noble Lord. Sir, we are to consider the orders of the House, and not the sentiments of individuals. If the noble Lord thinks that the Committee ought not to meet till after the Christmas recess, this postponement should have the direct sanction of the House.Sir R. Peel
 addressed himself to Lord Althorp across the Table, and was understood to say, that as the Order of the House had already been made for the appointment of a Committee upon the Civil List, his Majesty's Ministers ought to move to rescind that order, and then to appoint another committee, as it would be very irregular and improper to keep the present committee in abeyance merely upon a private understanding that the noble Lord was preparing papers, and getting ready propositions to lay before it. He apprehended that another committee could not be appointed, nor could the subject, with propriety, be taken out of the hands of the present Committee, unless the House first rescinded the order for its appointment.Sir R. Peel
 observed, that the Returns which had been moved for could not be complete unless the expense of private watchmen were included in it. Several of the parishes in the metropolis had, from the necessity of the case, been compelled to employ private watchmen; for there was, in some parishes no rate for the purpose of defraying the expense of watching. To obtain Returns showing the cost of private watchmen would be obviously impossible, and without them it would be impracticable to discover the difference between the expense of the present and the old systems.Sir R. Peel
 wished to offer one word in explanation, for the purpose of guarding himself against the imputation of having had the presumption to submit, upon his sole authority, any measure upon a subject of such vast importance as that of the Scotch law of entail. The House would recollect that two Select Committees had been appointed in former Sessions to consider the subject, and these bills embodied what those committees recommended as proper to amend the law. He was fully aware, that it would be the height of presumption in him to incur the responsibility of introducing such measures; but, in addition to the recommendation of the committees, these measures had received the approbation of a very learned and eminent Scotch Judge—Sir James Moncrief. Backed by such authorities he had undertaken the difficult task of endeavouring to carry these measures through Parliament.Mr. Kennedy
804803 moved for leave to bring in three Bills relative to the Law of Entail in Scotland. The House he said, would probably recollect, that the subject was not new, as committees were appointed to inquire into it in 1828 and 1829, and bills were introduced into the House under the sanction and approbation of these committees. In 1829, two bills would undoubtedly have passed, had it not been for the peculiar pressure of business, for with a few exceptions, a very favourable opinion of them was entertained. The two first bills he proposed to bring in on the present occasion, were the same as those of 1829. The third was contained in the bill of 1828, but was not brought forward in 1829. It was universally admitted, that the law of Scotland upon the subject of entail required amendment, and he proposed by the first bill, to provide that any property entailed in future in Scotland should be entailed upon a plan practically similar to the law of England, but adapted to the law of Scotland. By the second bill he proposed to provide, that persons in possession of entailed estates, should receive certain powers over those estates, which were very much wanted, to enable parties in possession of property to do justice to their estates. By the third bill he proposed to enact, that on the expiration of the lives of all persons interested in property at the passing of this Act, it shall be in the power of the first unborn heir to make a new settlement of the estate, and thus that the principle of the old law shall, as relates to their successors, become merged in that of the new law. By this provision, the existing law would not be altered until the demise of all heirs in being. He neither wished nor intended to enter into
804803Mr. Kennedy
 admitted, that the subject of the law of entail in Scotland was of infinite importance, and required mature consideration; for which reason he should not offer the slightest opposition to the introduction of the bills. At the same time, however, his hon. friend must not suppose, because the introduction of the bills was not opposed — that the Members for Scotland would, therefore, cordially support every detail of the measures. Everybody must be aware of the importance of the law of entail in Scotland, where so much property is entailed, although there was still sufficient land unentailed in Scotland to prevent any great mischief arising from a deficiency of means to afford employment to the agricultural poor. The hon. and learned Gentleman was quite mistaken in supposing that there is no field for the employment of capital in the purchase of land in Scotland. At this very moment a greater portion of the surface of Scotland was for sale than of any other part of the empire. If the hon. and learned Member's bills were precisely the same as those of last year, he must oppose some of their provisions. He was prepared to amend this branch of the Scotch law to a certain extent; but if either of the bills contained any proposition for a repeal of the Act passed seven years ago, and from which Scotland had derived the greatest advantages, he should certainly feel himself bound to oppose it. He would not go into any detail at the present moment; but as it was one in which the interests of Scotland were deeply involved, he trusted that it would meet with the attention which such a measure deserved, and that a proper opportunity would be allowed for discussing it. He regretted to say, that bills upon this subject bad not hitherto met with that degree, of attention from either House of Parliament which their importance demanded. With respect to the third measure proposed by the hon. Member, he had not yet heard anything to induce him to assent to it, and he therefore gave him notice that he should hereafter uniformly oppose it, though he would not object to their motion.Sir George Clerk
 said, that if Bethlehem Hospital were made to pay rates, it must come on the County for funds to support the paupers it now maintained.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that he should oppose the Bill, because he looked upon it as one which was unjust in its principles, and which had been introduced at a most unseasonable time, as there was great distress in the particular district to which it had reference. The whole of the district of St. George's consisted but of 130 acres, of which thirty were occupied by charitable institutions.Sir R. Wilson
807 thought, considering the importance of the subject, independently of the very able observations of his hon. and learned friend, that it would be quite impossible for the House to resist the introduction of these measures. But the subject of Scotch entails was certainly one of the most difficult that could possibly be taken up by an individual Member; and it was, therefore, with much regret that he had heard that there was no chance of its being taken up by the other House of Parliament, which, from the attendance of the Judges of the land, possessed greater facilities for properly dis-
807Sir William Rae
 had to state, for the information of his hon. friend, that in addition to the Commission already issued, another had passed the Great Seal for the trial of offenders in Buckinghamshire. There would be, in the issue of many more Commissions, considerable difficulty in finding Judges to try the accused. He fully concurred with his hon. friend, that none of those persons ought to be tried by the Magistrates under whose warrants they were committed, or by any person liable to be swayed by local, or any other undue influence.Lord Althorp
801 said, that he could recollect even in the last Session of Parliament that a Committee had been appointed upon the motion of the right hon. Baronet
801Lord Althorp
813 agreed in all the observations which had been made by his noble friend, and in those made by the noble Lord who had introduced the Bill; and he could assure the noble Lord, that the Government would be very happy to cooperate with him in making any improvements which might be requisite in the committee, and it would give the Bill every attention. He was happy that the Bill had been brought in; and he could assure the House, that the Government would readily support any measures that could improve the present system. Certainly, that system which filled our gaols with hardy men, with the roost active and
813Lord Althorp
799 replied, that he was not
799Lord Althorp
 thought the petition worthy of notice, as containing a distinct denial by the petitioners of the opinion that the use of machinery was injurious to the working classes. The petitioners also stated, that with knowledge they would answer for the peace of the country. He thought his Majesty's Ministers could take no wiser step than to resolve to abolish all the stamp and other duties which impeded the progress of knowledge. Hitherto the education of the people had been both neglected and perverted, and now that they were disposed to educate themselves, it was too bad that the Government should prevent them, or in a manner hinder them by its taxes.Mr. Warburton
 in presenting a petition against the duty upon Coals, which, he said, he was extremely solicitous to have repealed, as it pressed with excessive severity on the poor, wished to take that opportunity of asking the hon. member for Limerick whether he intended to bring forward his promised motion upon the subject; for if he abandoned it, other persons might take it up.Mr. Wilks,
 supported the petition, and declared, that if the hon. member for Limerick gave up the task of moving for the repeal of these duties, that he would undertake that business after the Christmas recess.Mr. Warburton
 said, that the tax was a grievous injury to the Irish manufacturers and prevented them from thriving and extending the employment they could find for the poor. There was another tax—that on window glass— which was a great hindrance to the Irish peasant acquiring a love for comfort, and a great cause of the filthiness of their habitations, and of the diseases which prevailed amongst them. If these two taxes were repealed, the repeal of the Union would not be much in favour.Sir R. Bateson
l.s.l., suggested, if the present tax, yielding 800,000l.s.l.,Mr. Wilks
 also bore testimony to the injurious effects of these taxes and expressed a hope that the hon. member for Limerick would not give up his intention. If the coal-duty were repealed, the vessels that bring cattle and corn from Ireland and go back empty, would take coals which would be a great advantage to the shipping interest.Mr. Brownlow
 was glad to hear it acknowledged that these duties were a violation of the Union, and was ready to bear his testimony to the injury they inflicted on the manufacturers of that country. With respect to the duties on window glass, they enhanced its price so much that it was quite beyond the means of the peasantry to purchase it. They were obliged to exclude both light and air from their cabins, and were made the victims of disease by the taxes of the Government.Mr. O'Connell
 rose to present a petition, signed by a very numerous body of operatives of Derby, praying for a repeal of the Stamp duties upon Newspapers. The petitioners set forth, that being unable to purchase Newspapers, there had been established among them a cheap paper, which related solely to subjects of literature and of trade. No sooner had the paper obtained a circulation than the conductors of it received a notice from the Stamp-office that it was liable to a Stamp-duty, and the publication was obliged to be suppressed. The petitioners set forth their case to the Government, saying, "You prevent the poor acquiring knowledge, and then punish them for what is the effect of ignorance; leave us to ourselves, and we will educate ourselves." The hon. Member continued, that after what some of the members of the present Administration had said upon this subject on former occasions, he trusted that they would redeem their pledges to the country, by repealing the taxes upon Newspapers, and reduce all duties that operated as a tax upon literature and knowledge.Mr. Strutt
827 thought the question
827General Gascoyne
 took occasion to deprecate the combination existing among the great coal-owners of the North to keep up the price of the article, and stated his fears that a remission of taxation on coals might prove more beneficial to those monopolists, who would scarcely fail to put the amount in their own pockets, than to the public.Mr. Calcraft
826 said, that he should have to present a similar petition, signed by 2,300 operatives of Manchester. A work
826Mr. J. Wood
 said, that under the present circumstances, he felt it would be improper to give any answer to the question, for whether he replied in the negative or affirmative., it might lead to inferences which he should not be prepared to support.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, that in North Wales and in Ireland, the duty was very oppressive, and he hoped that it would be repealed. He thought that the continuance of the tax in Ireland was a violation of the Union.Mr. Ormsby Gore
 assured the hon. Member that there existed no grounds for his apprehensions. The competition between the coal-owners was sufficient to prevent the price of the article from being too high, and he had no doubt, that if the duty were taken off, the public would enjoy the entire benefit of the repeal.Sir M. W. Ridley
 expressed a hope that the hon. member for Limerick would, if possible, persist in his motion on the subject; and pledged himself to take the matter up if the hon. Gentleman should consider it his duty to abandon it.Sir T. Acland
897 seized the opportunity to express his great regret at the language which had been used by his Majesty's new Minister upon the subject of Parliamentary Reform—language which, though, perhaps, more prudent, was, to his mind, nearly as disheartening as was the language of his immediate predecessor. The great reformer of 1793, the man who laid upon the Table of that House that ever-memorable petition, which had been quoted with his name, as its author, ten thousand times all over the country—was it possible that he could have said this question now required much time and deliberation, particularly after declaring that he never would support the principles of universal suffrage—in which determination he (Lord Blandford) entirely agreed with him—and that he wished to stand as much as he could upon the settled institutions of his country, in which desire he also most fully concurred. How, then, could the Minister at the same time say that the task was one of no slight difficulty now. Then the close and rotten boroughs wore to be extinguished and annihilated for ever. Had the Constitution been unlearnt since that time? Were the disciples of this great master now to be told that he had not yet made up his mind upon the subject, that he could only talk "generally" upon that which used to be considered as his favourite hobby—that delay was necessary—that great consideration was necessary—and that the whole question was surrounded with no small difficulty? If the close and rotten boroughs were to be preserved, or if any of them were to be kept, then he (Lord Blandford) could understand how the question was full of difficulty. But if the principles of the petition of the friends of the people in 1793 were to be adhered to, and none short of these will, or ought to, satisfy the country—then he could see no difficulty in the matter, no cause for delay, which must be dangerous in the present momentous state of the kingdom. It was for these considerations that he did feel it to be his first and paramount duty to appear in his place last Tuesday evening, with the intention of lending his feeble support to the motion of the hon.
897The Marquis of Blandford
 supported the petition, and expressed his regret that the learned Lord, of whose talents that House had lately been deprived, had not taken an opportunity of bringing forward a Motion on the subject. He regretted too that the hon. and learned Member for Waterford had not brought forward his motion, for though he differed in many particulars form the learned Lord, and the hon. and learned Member, he was satisfied that the time was come when the question of Reform must be set at rest by conceding it.Mr. Grove Price
laughter, and cries of" Order."cries of "name, name.!"904903902 said, that the Petition which he had the honour to present, was that of the inhabitants of Clondegad, in the county of Clare, praying that the Act of Union of Great Britain and Ireland be rescinded, and attributing to that measure the deep distress which at present prevailed in every part of Ireland. In moving that the petition be
laughter, and cries of" Order."cries of "name, name.!"904903902O'Gorman Mahon
 said, it was equally out of order for the hon. Member to allude to disorderly language spoken or written by him out of doors, as if it were actually uttered within the walls of that House. To adopt that which was out of order, was tantamount to a breach of order.Mr. Warburton
909908cries of "Order."a laugh and cheers907906905 resumed:—He was perfectly ready to receive instructions from any hon. Member as to the observance of order in that House; he was, as they all must know, utterly inexperienced in the forms of the House, but he begged to call attention to this, that he had not there said a Member had resorted to a deliberate and wilful falsehood; he merely stated the fact, that he had so written out of doors, and he had no difficulty in asserting, that the Member alluded to would be acting a most pusillanimous part if he did not instantly avow himself in that House as the author of the publication complained of. Surely he was not out of order in referring to what occurred elsewhere, when he did not repeat it in the House in a disorderly form. He merely stated that strong declaration of falsehood as to the charge made against him of lending himself to the views of the Duke of Wellington's Government. In speaking of that Government, then, he could not be open to any accusation of devoting himself to the interests of a Minister. The noble Duke and his friends were
909908cries of "Order."a laugh and cheers907906905O'Gorman Mahon
922921 did not mean, after the, able statements of the right hon. members for Waterford and the county of Derry, who had entered so fully into the details of the subject under the consideration of the House, to encroach upon its time by stating the grounds which induced him to support the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman. He should be glad to see the right hon. member for Kerry bring forward those ulterior measures which he appeared to contemplate, for the system was so bad as to render anything short of a complete revision an inadequate remedy. He would venture to notice one expression of the member for Kerry's speech—an apology which he made, but which he (Sir J. Walsh) hoped he would never think it necessary to repeat, for occupying the attention of the House with an exclusively Irish question. As an English Member, he wished to declare, that he did not understand the meaning of such an expression. There was no such thing, politically speaking, as an exclusively Irish question; every Irish question was more or less an English one. One reason for a reform of the present system, which had great weight with him, and which neither of the right hon. Gentlemen had noticed, was the moral effect which would be produced upon the peasantry by the removal of so many causes of suspicion and prejudice against their superiors. It
922921Sir John Walsh
 expressed the gratification he felt at finding that at length we had a Government which was willing to lend its attention to the complaints of the people of Ireland.Mr. Owen O'Connor
 thought the Ministers might, perhaps, have adopted a better course, if they had come down with a proposition of their own for the reduction of their salaries, rather than have thrown on a committee the ungracious task of determining what should be the amount. He did not, however, rise at that moment to apply himself to the question, but to ask the noble Lord if there was any foundation for the report of the intended removal of Sir Anthony Hart from the Lord Chancellorship of Ireland?Mr. Bankes
936 in reply to this declaration, said, he felt himself bound at once to stigmatise this proceeding of the Government as a job of the most obnoxious kind; and as a job of an Administration which set out with such loud professions, and which placed its claims to public support on its principles of economy. He must say, that it excited his wonder and surprise, not unmixed with a feeling of deep regret. He had hopes that the Administration would have attempted to justify the expectations of economy which were
936Mr. Bankes,
943 had heard, with great regret, those hon. Gentlemen who, before the arrangement which had been alluded to had been completed in Ireland, had thought proper to censure it. He trusted, that when that arrangement was completed, it would be found economical as compared with other arrangements of a similar nature. But, undoubtedly, the moral and political character of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland was a consideration of far greater importance than the amount of any economy on that subject which could be effected. The hon. Member who had just spoken said, that he considered the principal object which could be obtained by the Committee which his noble friend proposed, was to allay the ferment in the public mind on the subject of official emoluments, and to show that official remuneration was, generally speaking, not more than adequate to official service. For his own part, he thought that his noble friend had taken the best course to refer the subject to the consideration of a committee of independent Members; and he agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that there was much exaggeration in the statements respecting official emoluments, and that there was much which could not be subjected to retrenchment without a breach of national faith. But of this he was quite sure, that it would not be in the power of that Committee, or of the House, to satisfy the country, when they refused retrenchment even on the most solid grounds. The cause was, the manner in which the House was at present constituted. He was persuaded, that while there were so many Members in that House who did not enter it by popular election, so long would suspicion attach
943Lord John Russell
 was quite of opinion, with the hon. member for Colchester—that the utmost practicable economy was indispensably necessary for the safety of the country; and strongly recommended that some means should be adopted for relieving the people from the distress in which they were involved by want of employment. He agreed with the noble Lord, that the best course was, to submit the subject to the consideration of a committee, and did not agree with the hon. member for Guildford, that it would have been better had Ministers proposed a plan of their own. There could be no doubt that public officers should be adequately paid for the efficient performance of public services; but in leaving this subject to the consideration of a committee, he thought the noble Lord had done much better than if he had originated any spontaneous and voluntary recommendation.Mr. Keith Douglas
944 was understood to say, that the Government would have done better had it not followed the precedents set by other Administrations, and had
944Mr. Jephson
946**945 said, that he should not have trespassed upon the House on this occasion, but he felt that he could hardly do justice to his constituents, or to himself, if he did not take the earliest opportunity of explicitly declaring his feelings with respect to the present Administration, of avowing his confidence in the Gentlemen who composed it, and of stating his belief, that there never had been any Administration in this country, which in so short a time (he might say, before they were well placed in their offices) had come forward so promptly, so earnestly, and so satisfactorily, in proposing so many advantages to the public, and had done so many acts in earnest of the sincerity of their professions, as the gentlemen to whom he should now have the honour—if they proceeded upon the principles which they had laid down, and pursued their course in the same way they had hitherto done—of giving his unequivocal support in every way in his power. The new Administration offered new hopes to the country, and he hoped it would be the means of relieving it from the consequences of the uncontrolled misgovernment to which it had till now been subject. With respect to the particular subject now before the House, he could not conceive how it could be better dealt with, than in the way that was proposed, nor did he see the advantage of Ministers coming forward, and placing themselves in the invidious situation of reducing emoluments. He agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that no benefit would arise to the public from a niggardly scale of economy, or from withholding a fair remuneration for services which ought to be not merely amply, but, he would say, generously and liberally paid. The posts to which duties of this nature were attached ought to be held out, not only as objects of ambition, but ought to present such objects as would induce men of ability to employ their talents and their energies in the public service, rather than in any other of the pursuits in which, from their
946**945Sir Francis Burdett
 concurred in the observation of the hon. Baronet, that public servants ought to be properly remunerated. If individuals were employed who were without the necessary practical knowledge, great and permanent injury might result to the country. He meant also, though sitting on the same side of the House as the hon. member for Colchester, to have the pleasure, and to him it would be a great one from its novelty, of voting with him for the present Ministers whenever their actions deserved his support.Lord Valletort
952 wished to repeat the
952Mr. Labouchere
 also expressed his approbation of the Motion.Mr. Bankes
 thought the returns would be very useful, and he should like to know the number of persons who took out their freedom.Mr. Warburton
 consented to the Motion. The document asked for was most important.The Attorney General
 considered the Bill perfect, and the additional clauses consequently unnecessary. The noble Lord who framed and introduced it deserved the greatest praise for the whole Bill, and he should be sorry to see it undergo any alteration.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, that any objection to the clauses might be urged with better effect when they came to consider the details in the committee. In his opinion the Bill at present accomplished what his hon. and learned friend wished.The Attorney General
 said, that at present the law was not at all doubtful, and that he, therefore, should object to the clauses proposed by the hon. and learned member for Borough bridge.Mr. Campbell
 approved of the principle of the Bill, and hoped it would pass with unanimity.Lord John Russell
 thought there was another omission in the Bill, and that was, that if the power of the Regent ceased there was no distinct provision made for the exercise of the powers of Sovereignty. He should move to supply that defect in the Committee.Mr. Hughes Hughes
 wished the question of the ballot to be fairly discussed. As yet he had heard in that House no cogent argument against it; but he did not say that his own opinion respecting it was decided. The times would admit of no delay in the consideration of Reform, and he hoped, that if the Gentlemen on the other side of the House did not bring that subject forward, the Gentlemen below him (on the Opposition Benches) would do so. At the same time he was quite willing to allow for due deliberation before they resolved upon the measure to be proposed.Mr. Cresset Pelham
l. said, he had no desire to oppose the present Administration, but he wished to ask the noble Lord opposite whether the appointment of Comptroller of the Navy had been again filled up? —whether anew Clerk of the Council had been appointed since the death of Mr. Buller?—and whether an Ambassador was still to be maintained at Vienna, at an expense of 12,000l.Colonel Sibthorp
955 also gave his entire approbation to the principle of the measure, and observed, that the noble Lord
955Sir C. Wetherell
 said, the proper place to obtain the information required was the Stamp-office. The return, if granted, would not convey any satisfactory information on the subject. He opposed the Motion.Sir C. Wetherell
 thought the hon. Member's object would be as well, or better attained, by a motion for the repeal of the tax at a proper time—a motion which should receive his support.Mr. D. W. Harvey
941Reiterated cheers from all parts of the House, and much laughter.—The hon. member for Colchester spoke from the Opposition side of the House, surrounded on all sides by the principal leaders of the late Government.940l.maximuml.,minimuml.l.l.l.939 said, he was surprised at, and regretted the speeches which had just been delivered by the hon. members for Dorset and Guildford, for they were conceived in a most ungenerous spirit. Had his Majesty's Ministers proposed a committee composed of themselves, or their immediate dependants, no hon. Members would have assailed the plan with greater vehemence or indignation. The course pursued by the noble Lord was manly, and indicative of good intentions. The Ministers proposed to effect economy by their own example, and at the same time to disarm those who might complain of its rigour by an appeal to their own privations, effected indeed, not by themselves, but at the instance of a committee selected from political opponents and unconnected parties. Economy in ministerial offices is to be the basis of general retrenchment, and it was impossible to deny that the plan proposed was the most impartial method of effecting both objects, and would obtain for its authors
941Reiterated cheers from all parts of the House, and much laughter.—The hon. member for Colchester spoke from the Opposition side of the House, surrounded on all sides by the principal leaders of the late Government.940l.maximuml.,minimuml.l.l.l.939Mr. D. W. Harvey
 thought the views of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down deserved attention. Every person admitted, that the present system was monstrous. He had never heard any Gentleman defend the system except the hon. member for Wicklow. The principle was bad. It was taxation without representation, and those who levied the taxes were not the payers. In many instances the Grand Jury had no concern with the law. He had known a case where taxation to the amount of several thousand pounds was levied by a Grand Jury, five of whom had been discharged under the Insolvent Debtors' Act. Was it not a shame that ninety acres of bad land should pay as much, as had been stated by a right hon. Gentleman, as 1,000 acres of equally good land? Great praise had been frequently bestowed on the Parliament for its attention to Irish matters, but here was an abuse existing for thirty years without any remedy. Was Ireland to be grateful for that? He did not think she ought to be, unless her gratitude was political gratitude, which had been defined, to be a lively sense of future favours. He admitted the propriety of having local authorities, but those who assessed the taxes should be the taxpayers. Ireland was divided into baronies, and the plan he should recommend would be this:—He would have each barony select two men when any public works were necessary, who should make a presentment for them to the Assistant Barrister, and he would give to these two men and the Assistant Barrister the power of settling the maximum of the assessment. Their presentment should go before the Grand Jury, who should have no power to enlarge it; but if they disapproved of it, they might diminish it. The Grand Jury should then have the power to order the works to be executed, but by no other means than by contracts publicly announced and publicly formed, and the contractors should be obliged to pay their labourers in money. This would be a constitutional means of improving the system. He would say, that at present the discontent in Ireland on account of the Grand Jury system was excessive, and could not, perhaps, be exceeded. He was happy to hear the right hon. Baronet's good wishes to-night, but he would rather have had some good deeds from him before he went out of Office.Mr. O'Connell
901 said, that as he had seen the hon. and gallant Officer, who had been for a long time, he believed, member for Southwark, go out of the House before he (Mr. O'Connell) had an opportunity of replying to the remarks made upon him by that gallant Member, he waited until the last moment on the question before the House, in expectation of his return. As the gallant Officer did not return, he would, in his absence say a very few words on the subject. He should not imitate the speech
901Mr. O'Connell
 stated, that he had two reasons for not giving his opinion with respect to the judicial appointment which had been referred to. The first was, lest, in speaking on that subject, and expressing the deep and heartfelt interest which he took in the concerns of Ireland, he might be supposed to be actuated by a personal resentment, which he despised; the other reason was, that they had not all the facts at present before them.Mr. O'Connell
898 on presenting three other petitions in favour of reform, said, that he considered the project of reform which had been contemplated by the learned Lord, to whom the noble Marquis (Blandford) alluded, was not sufficient.
898Mr. O'Connell,
896 presented a Petition from the parish of St. Michael, North Petherstone, in favour of Parliamentary Reform. The petitioners wished that Rotten Boroughs
896Mr. O'Connell
 declared his great satisfaction at the observations which had just been made by his right hon. friend. Considering the station which that right hon. Gentleman had occupied, he was sure the people of England would mark with great applause the handsome conduct which he now pursued. He hoped that an end would be put, as far as was practicable, to the system of managing business by Committees of that House. He thought that the interests of monarchy in the country had been greatly prejudiced by the practice of delegating to committees of the people matters which ought to be arranged by the Crown, under the responsibility, of course, of the King's advisers. There was one point adverted to by the hon. member for Dorsetshire, upon which he would make an observation. He, for one, approved of the appointment of Lord Plunkett as Chancellor of Ireland. He considered that it was the duty of the heads of the Administration to see that there were placed in those posts of which they had the patronage persons with whom they could have a cordial and confidential understanding in the principles which they professed. They should not lose any opportunity which their patronage offered of receiving the services of such men; and he was sure that the people of England would not regret a few thousand pounds in addition, if that expenditure strengthened an Administration whose professions had already gained them so much credit.Mr. Littleton
900Sir R. Wilson.  said, that in his judgment, the member for Waterford (Mr. O'Connell) had expressed himself on that evening with a moderation which it would do him honour to observe more generally, both in that House and in Ireland. He was sorry to see him often misapply the great talents which he was well known to possess; but he (Mr. Ruthven) was of opinion, that on that evening an unbecoming violence had been exhibited, in the reply which had been a few minutes ago made to some remarks of that hon. and learned Gentleman.. No man in that House differed more widely than he did from some of the opinions of the member for Waterford. But still he would say, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not said anything which ought to be considered offensive.—[900Sir R. Wilson. Mr. Ruthven
l.l.948 could not conceive why another Judge should be appointed in the place of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. It ought not to be forgotten, that Sir Anthony Hart was not appointed by the late Government, but by the Government of Mr. Canning. When it was re-collected that many of the present Minis-
l.l.948Sir E. B. Sugden
:—I did not hear the noble Lord's speech.Sir E. B. Sugden
 did not oppose the Motion, as the hon. and learned Gentleman pledged himself to the necessity of having the document.Sir E. B. Sugden
 reminded the House that he had intended to bring in a bill to regulate the practice of the Court of Chancery, and on Tuesday he should take the opportunity of stating what were his views on the subject.Sir E. B. Sugden
956 remarked, that his hon. and learned friend, who proposed to make that law a declaratory law, forgot that it was impossible to do so unless that and the other House of Parliament first agreed in a resolution that such as that hon. and learned Member wished to make the law was actually now the Law of the land. A declaratory law was only a declaration of a law actually pre-existing, but respecting which there had been some doubts. He was disposed to meet the learned Gentleman (Sir C. Wetherell)
956Sir E. B. Sugden
l.951l. said, that without meaning any disrespect to Lord Plunkett, he thought that Sir Anthony Hart was equally fitted for the office of Chancellor. He could see no reason for the translation of the former, whose services were already secured in another situation. It was a most singular thing, that the noble Secretary was himself a member of the very Administration by whom Sir A. Hart was appointed; and the same observation would apply to other members of the Government. How, then, he would ask the noble Lord, had Sir Anthony Hart forfeited the confidence of the present Government? Not only was the same Lord Lieutenant now going to Ireland that was there when Sir Anthony Hart was appointed, but the noble Secretary and other members of his Majesty's Government were then in office. What, then, was the ground of Sir Anthony Hart's removal? They were told that some plan of economy, that some system of reform, was in contemplation. An expense of 4,000l.951l.Mr. G. Bankes
l.;930 admitted, that the principles of the system were bad, but he denied that the Grand Jurors who carried it into execution were corrupt. The materials were good, but the plan was bad. Landlords ought to have the power of levying these taxes, and that system would be no improvement which took that power from them. It was proper to keep up their connection with the county, and their interest was deeply concerned in the proper administration of the county funds. Under the present arrangement of
l.;930Mr. G. Dawson
937 said, that as this subject had excited a very general interest in England, as well as in Ireland, he hoped the noble Lord would excuse his putting to him another question connected with the rumour of another removal. Sir Anthony Hart, the present Lord Chancellor, made no objection, as far as he understood, to continue to hold his place; and he believed it was admitted by the Bar and the country, that no man was better qualified to perform its duties with honour to himself and advantage to the suitors. It should also be recollected, that Sir Anthony Hart was sent to Ireland purely and solely because he was not connected with any of its political parties, and because he was not disposed to meddle with any of the contending factions of the time—but they now heard, and he confessed he heard it with pain, that the Chancellor was to be replaced by a political substitute, whose inclination it was, and from whom it was required as a duty, that he should meddle with parties, and renew that hatred and dissatisfaction which had for some time been so happily repressed. This was not all however; he understood that it was also contemplated to give a retiring allowance to the Chief Baron, in order that he might be replaced by some other political friend of the Government, although that Judge was as competent as any other in Ireland to fulfil his duties, and no adequate reason could be advanced to justify his retirement. The consequence of all this would be, to saddle the country with two retiring pensions in order that the Government might place two political supporters in the place of the Lord Chancellor and Chief Baron in Ireland. He (Mr. Dawson) would not complain of this in ordinary cases, but when he was told that retrenchment was the one sole object of the Government, and when he found that Ministers rested their claim to public confidence, and their reputation as a Government, on the fulfilment of their pledges of economy; and when he found that one of their first acts was to displace two eminent Judges, who would be enti-
937Mr. G. Dawson
 observed, that as it was understood that the Committee on the Civil List was not to proceed until after the holidays, it was evident that his Majesty's Ministers had determined, very manfully, in his opinion, to take upon themselves the responsibility of proposing a plan on that subject. He regretted, however, that on the subject now before the House, they had shown a disposition to withdraw from a similar responsibility, by proposing the appointment of a committee to consider it; and that on the plea that they were not competent or proper judges. He very readily allowed that the Members of whom the Committee was to consist would probably be free from Government influence; but if a committee was considered the best course in this instance, why not refer the Civil List to a similar committee, to proceed immediately to the discharge of their functions?—Why adopt two courses.Mr. Holme Sumner
954 observed, that the paper which he now sought to obtain was one that would be most necessary in the ensuing inquiries
954Mr. Spence
 said, if the hon. Member's object was to get rid of the tax upon taking up freedoms, he should endeavour to effect it by easier and more direct means than a motion for voluminous and useless returns.Mr. Goulburn
 said, the hon. Member had no need to ask him this question, because one of the hon. Member's friends had moved for a return of those particular pensions, and it was now on the Table of the House. He had refused to answer the question formerly; because, with respect to a date, it was better to refer to a document than merely to trust to recollection. It appeared by the return, that the order for those pensions was dated the 16th of November.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that with respect to the Clerk of the Council, his Majesty's late Ministers had contemplated an arrangement when the office became vacant, which would have led to a reduction even more beneficial to the public, perhaps, than the present.Mr. Goulburn
947 agreed perfectly with the hon. Baronet in the propriety of fairly remunerating public men for their services, and of not resorting to a petty economy, calculated to defeat its own object. He hoped that the measures which his Majesty's present Government intended to bring forward would prove as beneficial as he could not doubt they intended them to be. When he was himself a member of Government, and brought forward any measure which he thought advantageous to the country, he always thought it entitled to a candid construction. In the same manner, although he should use due vigilance with respect to the measures which might be brought forward by the present Govern-
947Mr. Goulburn
942 expressed his persuasion, that if his Majesty's Ministers wished to have the vote of the hon. member for Colchester, they must pay a higher public price for it than he fancied they were at present disposed to give. He did not rise to oppose the noble Lord's motion: quite the contrary. He supported it; not because he admitted the validity of all the principles maintained by the hon. Gentleman behind him, but because he thought the course proposed by the noble Lord honourable to his character, as well as consistent and proper. For himself, although he believed that during the last two or three Sessions retrenchment had been carried as far as, under all the circumstances of the case, it could be carried, yet he always cherished the hope, that in succeeding Sessions it might be carried still further. Of course the process would be continually diminishing the amount on which it would be practicable to operate. Now, however, at the opening of a new Session—at the commencement of a new Administration—when the noble Lord and his friends were unfettered by any extrinsic considerations, he thought his Majesty's Government were conferring a great benefit on the country, by proposing that this subject should undergo a strict and impartial investigation. Not that he believed that any very considerable saving could be effected (for he agreed with the noble Lord that the principal object was to satisfy the country), but that he thought it was exceedingly desirable to disabuse the public mind, and to expose the monstrous exaggerations and enormous errors which prevailed, with reference to official remuneration and emoluments. If the
942Mr. Horace Twiss
925924l.923Fitzgerald wished, before he alluded to the Resolutions of his right hon. friend, the member for Waterford, to complain of the conduct of his right hon. friend, the member for Kerry. He had sat long in Parliament, and long had this system been complained of; year after year had it been confirmed by laws,—it was, in fact, the creature of the laws,— and yet his right hon. friend had never till now proposed his plan of relief. He only now stated, that he had a plan, when the other right hon. Gentleman had submitted his Resolutions to the House. That plan, however, seemed of little value, for before it could be made available, a general survey must be made of Ireland. [Mr. 925924l.923FitzgeraldMr. James Grattan
 said, he hoped that the proposed reforms of the Ministers would extend to Scotland, the representation of which was even more corrupt than that of England.Mr. J. Johnston
950 contended, that his hon. and learned friend (Sir E. B. Sugden) had a right to make the observations he had done on a subject which had been twice or thrice mentioned in the House, until he received the information he demanded. He now begged leave to state his own opinion with respect to that appointment. Looking to the talents and experience of the noble Lord (Plunkett), and considering the great service which he might render in Ireland, he thought that any Government which could avail themselves of his assistance in the public service, would be extremely culpable if it neglected to do so.
950Mr. Calcraft
 objected to the Motion, which would be unattended by any beneficial effects unless it was intended to abandon the stamp-duties on taking out freedoms.Mr. Croker
926 denied, that he had made any attack on the character of Grand Juries. He had admitted that the members of them had good intentions, but the system under which they worked
926Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
920919918917916915l.914 concurred with his right hon. friend in his view of the great importance of the subject he had introduced to the notice of the House, but he did not concur with him in the regret he expressed that it had not fallen into abler hands. No Member of the House was more competent to the task—and no member from Ireland had ever exerted himself more strenuously or more diligently than his right hon. friend in every measure which could promote the interests of his country; and particularly in endeavouring to reform the abuses which had grown up in its local systems. He did not mean to offer any opposition to the motion of his right hon. friend as there was quite enough on the records of the House, not only to justify, but to demand the interference of Parliament, for the purpose of correcting the evils of which he complained. It would be a great improvement if part of the power now exercised by Grand Juries were taken from them, in order to relieve them from much labour and improve the criminal jurisdiction which they exercised. With the jurisdiction however they had a power of taxation equal almost to that possessed by Parliament. Having this multiplicity of business, it was impossible that Grand Juries could give that attention to each of their duties which its importance demanded. This would be readily conceived when he stated, that it was in evidence before the House that, taking the number of presentments made by Grand Juries, and the time they had bestowed on the whole — the average amount given to each, did not exceed five minutes. Considering the great importance of some of those presentments, embracing, as they often did, very important local alterations, and involving an expenditure of many thousands of pounds, such a brief portion of time was far too
920919918917916915l.914Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 consented to withdraw his motion, and expressed an intention to move for a repeal of the tax on a future opportunity. When he should bring that motion forward, he hoped he should not be accused of wishing to proceed in the dark because he had withdrawn his present motion.Mr. Hodgson
 moved for a return of persons entitled to the freedom of certain specified Cities and Boroughs, by patrimony, servitude, or marriage, who have been admitted to such freedom in each of the last four years from the present time. The hon. Member explained, that he wished to find out the number of persons who had paid a stamp-duty, or taken out their freedom, with a view to ground on that a motion for the repeal of the stamp-duty.Mr. Hodgson
in commendam before the noble Viscount (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proceeded to move for the committee on Public Salaries, begged leave to ask him a question on a subject in which he believed the public took a peculiar and extraordinary interest. He wished to know if Ministers persisted in the determination of their predecessors, to permit the living of Stanhope to be held by Dr. Phillpotts, in commendamMr. Charles Wynne,
 was friendly to a just economy, but he was sure that it would be found a very bad species of economy to under-pay public servants.Mr. R. Colborne
 suggested to his right hon. friend the propriety of withdrawing the Resolutions, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared it to be the intention of Government to take the subject under its immediate care.Mr. Spring Rice
931 admitted, that the members of Grand Juries were very honourable men; but such was the vicious system, that the most honourable men could not act virtuously, at least their conduct could not possibly have the appearance of virtue. The evils of the present system were immense, and they all arose from those who levied the rates and administered them being irresponsible. He was opposed to the system suggested by the member for Kerry; but he approved of the principle of that suggested by the member for Waterford though not of its details. He thought the better plan would be, to divide the powers of the Grand Juries into two parts, leaving to the Magistrates the judicial power which they at present exercised, and permitting the rate-payers to elect from the whole body a certain number, to whom they would be willing to commit the administration of
931Mr. Wyse
932 was of opinion, that
932Mr. W. O'Brien
l.927 wished to make a few observations on the course of the proceeding rather than on the substance of the Motion. The right hon. Baronet had proposed five Resolutions in detail, calling on the House to affirm several important matters. The House should be careful how it affirmed those matters; and he would therefore suggest, that it would be better, before affirming those matters, that the House should see the Resolutions in print, and have an opportunity of well considering the subject. He objected, then, to the course adopted by the right hon. Baronet. The object of the Resolutions was, to declare that the lessee should not pay the cess, which should be paid by the lessor. He wished the House of Commons to declare that the occupier ought not to pay the assessment; but surely the interval between the House of Commons making that declaration and passing a bill to impose the payment on the other class should be as short as possible. When the right hon. Baronet remembered the agitated state of Ireland, he would himself see the propriety of not condemning one system by a resolution of that House before the Legislature were prepared to establish another. His right hon. friend (Mr. M. Fitzgerald)knew that he did not agree to all his views. He objected to establishing any Board, whether under the Government or not, to regulate local taxation. Local taxation should, he thought, be regulated by local authorities, which he preferred to any Board. The object, he thought, should be, to establish a local authority, but to place that authority under certain restrictions, and subject its acts to revision. Certainly he objected strongly to the present plan of allowing one individual to name all the members of these little Parliaments, as the Grand Juries were called. All the objections to Select Vestries applied with great force to a body of twenty-three persons, selected by one individual. He wanted to see the people of Ireland take an interest in such institutions themselves, and he should like to see them establish, with certain checks, institutions for local expenditure such as were in England. He did not wish to see the body to which this power was intrusted very numerous —it might nearly approach the number of an English Grand Jury. He wished next to separate the judicial power from the
l.927Sir Robert Peel
 saw no reason to oppose the Motion, and as the returns might be beneficial he should support it. The stamp-duties, as he knew very well, prevented many freemen from taking up their freedom.Mr. G. Robinson
899 said, he felt it imperative upon him to contradict the assertion of the hon. and learned Member who had imputed bad motives to all who did not profess to hold the same opinions with himself. The learned Gentleman had chosen to denounce as insincere and dishonest the avowed opinions of men whose whole public lives had proved their integrity to be quite equal to that of the member for Waterford himself. The ballot was opposed by Gentlemen who had come into that House with the sanction of their constituents for that opposition. In the House they did no more than maintain the opinions which they had professed out of it. It was well known, that in the United States of America the ballot had proved to be a deception—a cloak—and encouragement to corruption. By the privacy which it secured, it induced men to sell their votes. The most honourable men had pronounced the ballot to be fallacious and injurious; and, at this moment, there was more fraud practised in those States of America in. which the votes were concealed by ballot, than in those in which they were given
899Sir Robert Wilson
913s.,l.l;l.;l.;912l.s.s.s.l.l.,l.,l.;l.;l.;911"The Grand Juries of Ireland assembled at the Spring and Summer Assizes, in addition to their criminal functions, are intrusted with the entire civil administration of county expenditure. They levy the funds from whence the salaries of public officers, the expense of prisons, bridewells, and police are defrayed —they supply funds for the hospitals, infirmaries, lunatic asylums, and dispensaries— they decide upon making and repairing roads and bridges—they audit the accounts of all past expenditure under these several heads. Thus, the Grand Juries in Ireland are not only charged with the duties performed by the Grand Juries in England, but, in addition, exercise functions performed in this part of the empire by Magistrates at Quarter Sessions, and are intrusted with Powers reserved under the English system for the legislature only. The Grand Juries decide what works shall be undertaken—the price at which such works shall be executed—and the individuals who shall become responsible for their completion. The taxation levied for these various purposes, is raised from the actual occupiers of the land, and by collectors, who are armed with the summary power of distress and sale. At various times the subject of Grand Jury presentments has been considered, both in the House and in Select Committees. In 1815, 1816, and 1822, inquiries have been instituted from which some remedial measures have originated, but as the reports of both Houses of Parliament in 1825 specially directed the attention of the Legislature to the state of the Grand Jury laws, and as a further report was made to the same effect in 1827, your Committee feel justified in assuming that there is still an admitted necessity for a more effectual reform than has been yet applied to correct the acknowledged imperfections and abuses of the present system."910 rose, he said, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move several resolutions on the subject of Grand Juries in Ireland, and expressed his regret that the subject had not been taken up by some Member who could do it much more justice than was in his power. No man was more fully impressed with the great importance of this subject to Ireland, and with the necessity that some alteration should be made in the present Grand Jury system of that country; at the same
913s.,l.l;l.;l.;912l.s.s.s.l.l.,l.,l.;l.;l.;911"The Grand Juries of Ireland assembled at the Spring and Summer Assizes, in addition to their criminal functions, are intrusted with the entire civil administration of county expenditure. They levy the funds from whence the salaries of public officers, the expense of prisons, bridewells, and police are defrayed —they supply funds for the hospitals, infirmaries, lunatic asylums, and dispensaries— they decide upon making and repairing roads and bridges—they audit the accounts of all past expenditure under these several heads. Thus, the Grand Juries in Ireland are not only charged with the duties performed by the Grand Juries in England, but, in addition, exercise functions performed in this part of the empire by Magistrates at Quarter Sessions, and are intrusted with Powers reserved under the English system for the legislature only. The Grand Juries decide what works shall be undertaken—the price at which such works shall be executed—and the individuals who shall become responsible for their completion. The taxation levied for these various purposes, is raised from the actual occupiers of the land, and by collectors, who are armed with the summary power of distress and sale. At various times the subject of Grand Jury presentments has been considered, both in the House and in Select Committees. In 1815, 1816, and 1822, inquiries have been instituted from which some remedial measures have originated, but as the reports of both Houses of Parliament in 1825 specially directed the attention of the Legislature to the state of the Grand Jury laws, and as a further report was made to the same effect in 1827, your Committee feel justified in assuming that there is still an admitted necessity for a more effectual reform than has been yet applied to correct the acknowledged imperfections and abuses of the present system."910Sir John Newport
 had not entertained a hope that the Resolutions would be carried; but he was satisfied with the attention bestowed on them, and would withdraw them.Sir John Newport
 in reply to the hon. Member's question, said, that his Majesty's Ministers, upon finding a great objection prevailing throughout the country on the subject of such an union, had felt it their duty to advise his Majesty to abstain from issuing the instruments required for that purpose.Lord Althorp,
935934933 then rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the
935934933Lord Althorp
 said, he felt bound, in the first place, to apologize to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Dawson) for not possessing the requisite information to answer a question on the same subject, which he put to him on a former evening. The truth was, that he had just returned from his election, and had not had an opportunity of communicating with the members of the Government until he took his place in the House. In answer to the question of the hon. member for Dorsetshire, he had now to state, that the Government felt it required an intimate and confidential assistant in the government of Ireland in the person of the Lord Chancellor, and they had, therefore, determined on making a change in that office; but they had taken such steps, and made such arrangements with respect to the removal of Sir Anthony Hart, that no real increase of the burthens of the people would be the consequence.Lord Althorp
938 in reply to the last observation of the right hon. Gentleman, said, that the Chief Baron had already been twenty-five years on the Bench, and had expressed a strong wish to retire. He begged also to say, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman's charge of the wish of the Government to appoint political partisans, that the persons appointed to these situations were no political friends of the present Administration, but, on the contrary, men appointed by an Administration with which they had nothing whatever to do. The Government, therefore, had no personal motive to do wrong and it would be found, on examination, that they had promoted, in all cases, men never politically connected with them as a party. There might be an exception with respect to the Lord Chancellor. The right hon. Gentleman says, that the Lord Chancellor should not be connected with the opinions of the Government. Now, up to the time of the appointment of Sir Anthony Hart, the Chancellor had always been a political associate. It was necessary that he should be in constant communication with the Lord Lieutenant, to whom was intrusted the executive government of Ireland; and if he was not a person who could hold a confidential communication on the views of the Government in England, he could not efficiently perform the duties of his station. The
938Lord Althorp,
929 agreed with all the Gen-
929Lord Althorp
 in moving the second reading of the Regency Bill, expressed his entire approbation of the measure, which appeared to him to be extremely well conceived. He did not consider that there was any infringement of the Constitution. There would be an infringement of the Constitution if a person with the sovereign power was deprived of his prerogative; if the prerogative were fit to be given to the Sovereign, it was also fit to be given to the person acting as Regent. He was glad, therefore, that this Bill appointed no Council of Regency, as had been done by former bills.Lord Althorp,
l.l. said, that with respect to the situation of Comptroller of the Navy, he could not give the hon. Member any information. As to the appointment of second Clerk to the Council, he could give a satisfactory answer. Before the late Administration left office, the King's pleasure was taken on the appointment of Mr. Bathurst as second Clerk of the Council. His appointment was not made by the present Ministers, but by their predecessors. The only thing they had to do with the office was, to reduce the salary from 2,000l.l.Lord Althorp
 expressed his entire approbation of the Bill. It was the happiness of the people at present to have a Sovereign on the Throne in whom they placed the most perfect confidence; but it was still more for their happiness that the laws of the realm did not trust its safety and security to any thing so unstable as human character.Lord Morpeth
949 was sorry that the hon. hon. and learned Gentleman was not in the House when his noble friend made his statement; but he thought that a person of the hon. and learned Gentleman's experience ought not to have given utterance to such unqualified opinions without hearing the speech which he rose to answer.
949Lord Palmerston
 expressed his surprise, after his noble friend had clearly stated that he should be able satisfactorily to explain this transaction, when the details of the arrangement came before the House, to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman make the accusation which he had just done.Lord Palmerston
 presented a Petition from Reading, praying that the bill now pending in the Lords for the establishment of Local Courts might be passed into a law. The petition was numerously signed, and would have been signed by every inhabitant in Reading if more time had been allowed. He cordially concurred in the prayer of the petition, and believed that the bill, if passed into a law, would do a great deal of good, by preventing delay, vexation, and expense in obtaining justice. It would be an especial benefit to the working and poorer classes, and should receive from him the warmest support when it came into that House.Mr. Charles Russell
 presented a Petition from Gainsborough, praying for a Reform. The hon. Member observed, that this was almost the first from the county of Lincoln on this important subject, and would by no means be the last. He rejoiced to state, that the spirit of reform, now spreading through the country, was everyday becoming more and more apparent, as the necessity for it became more and more urgent. These petitions came from a numerous and independent body of the people, and. they especially prayed for the annihilation of the rotten boroughs, and for vote by ballot. He felt very great pleasure in presenting them to the House, and in cordially supporting their prayer.Sir W. Ingilby
 presented Petitions against any further grant to the Kildare Street Society, for the Education of the Poor in Ireland, from Kilglass, Balla and Drum, Kilfinora, and the united parishes of Aglish, Ballyhear, and Breafy. The contents of all these petitions, the hon. Member said, were the same; they all complained of the various abuses which existed in the management of the Kildare Street Society. He considered these petitions well deserving of the attention of the House. He had often heard, that this Society had proved a great benefit to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, but he must confess, that he never met with any proof of that assertion. He trusted, that his Majesty's Ministers would take this subject into consideration, and adopt measures to make the grants, which are given exclusively to this Society, of advantage to all Ireland.Mr. Owen O'Connor
978977976 said, several petitions on this subject had been presented to the House, signed by bigotted and interested persons, which he had not thought it worth while to comment upon, although they contained allegations which it was in his power to disprove; but, when he saw
978977976Sir Robert Bateson
983 said, he wished to make a few observations with reference to the select committee that was appointed last night. He observed that the noble Lord himself was on that committee, although he had understood that no person connected with the Administration was to be placed on it. Two members of the late Government were also appointed members of the committee. These Gentlemen were certainly placed in a very extraordinary situation; because, if they declared that the salaries were too large, they would thereby convict themselves of having, during the many years they held office, received enormous salaries—salaries greatly disproportioned to the duties performed by them. They would, therefore, be in some measure compelled to state that the salaries were not too great. He also observed that the names of several of those who last night expressed strongly their opinion that the salaries were not too large, were introduced on this committee; but not one of those individuals who entertained a very different opinion had been
983Mr. Phillpotts
 wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. R. Grant) whether he was prepared on an early day to bring forward a measure similar to that which he introduced last Session, for the relief of persons professing the Jewish religion?Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
986 said, that seeing the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his place, he was anxious to take the opportunity of putting a question to him on a subject of great constitutional importance. He could assure the noble Lord that his question did not arise from any spirit of hostility to him, or from any desire to embarrass the new Government. He would put the same question to the members of the late Government under similar circumstances. Neither was he disposed to put his question in the absence of his hon. and learned friend, the chief legal adviser of the Crown in that House, for' whom, on public and private grounds, he had a great esteem; and for whose consistency of public principle he had the highest respect,—a consistency which, he regretted to say, he had not seen in some others who held that situation before him; but he thought the subject was one so interesting in a constitutional point of view, that it ought not to be postponed. His question was, whether the Government of which the noble Lord formed a part, were aware of the intention of the large masses of the people who had accompanied the deputation to present the Address a few days ago to his Majesty, at his Palace of St. James's, to form the procession which had gone up? He wished to know whether this assem-
986Mr. Grove Price
988Cheers and laughter.987 said, he was anxious to explain the grounds on which he put the question. The clause of the Act of the 13th Charles 2nd, to which he begged to call the attention of the House, was to
988Cheers and laughter.987Mr. Grove Price
994 said, since the right hon. Baronet viewed the question without any disposition to impute blame to his noble friend at the head of the Home Department, he was ready to admit with him, that, according to the strict letter of the Act, the procession was not legal, and that it ought not to be drawn into a precedent for any future procession on similar occasions, for he acknowledged that such a practice might give rise to serious evils. From the letter and spirit of the Statute, it was clearly illegal that large masses of the people should go up with Addresses, yet it was but justice to the individuals who were assembled on that occasion to say, that not only was their conduct harmless and inoffensive, but praiseworthy, for the perfect good order and decorum which they had observed throughout. Let it also be recollected, that this body did not go up to petition—to ask any thing of the Sovereign—but simply to present an Address expressive of their loyalty and dutiful attachment to his Majesty. As to whether they bore the tri-coloured flag or not, he could not say; but if they had, he could not look upon it as intended as any insult to our own national flag, to which the people of this country were greatly attached, as they were also to the person of the gracious Sovereign under whom they had the happiness to live. The flag, if introduced at all, must have been intended as a complimentary mode of expressing their admiration of the glorious
994Lord John Russell
 said, that it was only the day before the intended procession that the Home Secretary was made acquainted with it, and that by having a placard brought to the office, noticing the intention of the trades to go up to the Palace. Under these circumstances, he thought it would have been the height of imprudence, not to say downright madness, to have prevented the procession, as it could not have been done without resorting to force. He would only add, with reference to what fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman, as to the conduct of the people, that their peaceable demeanour, after they had come up in the expectation of obtaining a sight of their Sovereign, and of receiving an answer to their Address, was entitled to great praise, and in the present period of excitement it more fully proved the loyalty and attachment to their Sovereign of the people of the metropolis. On the subject of the right of petitioning, he might be allowed to say a word. It was a right in which the strict letter of the law was every day violated without a word being said about it. For instance, petitions were presented to and received by that House, praying for reform and other changes, and yet by law no petition could be presented for any alteration in Church and State signed by more than twenty persons, unless it was signed by the Lord Mayor, or by the Magistrates in Quarter Sessions, or by some other potentates of that description.Mr. G. Lamb
 objected to the wording of it, as excluding from the Throne all possible issue of the King, by any marriage after the death of the present Queen, in favour of the Princess Victoria. It was possible that her present Majesty might die, that the King might marry again, and have issue, and from the manner in which this clause was worded, bestowing the Regency on the Duchess of Kent, in case his Majesty should die without issue by his present Consort, it would postpone the claims of that issue to the right of the Princess Victoria. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved, as an Amendment, to substitute for the words "Leaving no issue by her present Majesty," the words, "Leaving no issue him surviving."Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 admitted, that the Act was intended to provide for a particular case, but as the first clause was of a general description, the Amendment that he proposed seemed necessary.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 (Sir Thomas Denman) admitted the force of the hon. and learned Gentleman's observation. The Bill as it now stood implied a restriction which he understood was not intended. The best way of amending it, however, would be, to leave out the words "her present Majesty," making the enactment depend on his Majesty dying without issue.The Attorney General
 agreed to the suggestion of the Attorney General.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 thought the other clauses might, without difficulty, be adapted to the proposed Amendment.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
998 defended his proposed Amendment, and showed that all the other clause? of the Bill might be easily adapted to it. Of course, however, he
998The Attorney General
bona fide999 said, that in rising to move for the returns which he should read at the conclusion of his observations, he was actuated by no feelings of hostility towards the Church, but by a sincere desire to render it as pure and useful as its best friends could wish. His object in moving for them was twofold. He wished in the first place to ascertain the number of clergymen who did not reside on their benefices, in order to devise some general measure to compel their residence—a consummation which was highly desirable, as he could state from his own personal experience that in all parishes where the clergymen were resident, the condition of the poor was much better than in those parishes where the clergymen were not resident. He wished in the next place, if the information obtained by these returns should warrant it, to found upon it a measure for the better payment of the working clergy, similar to that which a noble Lord had carried through the other House of Parliament, with equal credit to his head and his heart. The hon. Member then moved, for "a return of the annual separate estimated value of every Vicarage, Rectory, Living, or other clerical benefice in the gift of the Crown, with the name and description
bona fide999Mr. Long Wellesley
 could not agree to the suggestion, because he believed that a commission was now inquiring into the value and amount of Church property in Ireland.Mr. Long Wellesley
 could not agree to this suggestion, any more than he could to that which had been already made to him. He would candidly admit, that his reason for moving for these returns was his belief that there was ground of complaint as to the non-residence of the secular clergy. He had limited his inquiry to the Livings in the gift of the Crown, because he did not wish to give offence to the hierarchy, and because he had observed that inquiries which were very large in their nature, were not in general productive of any beneficial result. His object was, to collect a mass of information so condensed and specific in its nature that a practical measure could easily be founded upon it.Mr. Long Wellesley
991 said, that the spirit of the Act which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to was not violated by the meeting; but that though its letter might not have been in strictness adhered to, his Majesty's Government had acted with great wisdom and prudence in allowing the procession to approach his Majesty without interruption in the way it had done; and he must own, that he was rather surprised at the hon. and learned Member quoting an Act, passed at such a period as the time of Charles 2nd, and now almost forgotten, with a view of applying its provisions to times like the present. If he recollected correctly, this Act was passed in the second year of the actual reign of Charles 2nd; and when hon. Members looked back to the spirit of those times, they would find that certain Acts of the same spirit were passed to render the proceedings of the Long Parliament more palatable to the Crown. But though the Act was, in strictness, still the law of the land, yet it was a law which, in the present very different tone and temper of the country, it would be neither wise nor prudent to enforce according to its strict letter. He thought, therefore, Ministers acted the part of sensible and prudent men in not restricting those ebullitions of loyalty on the part of the people, for which they had made such preparations, and which there was no reason to doubt would be expressed in any other than a peaceful and decorous manner. If Ministers had permitted his Majesty's residence to be approached by a tumultuous assembly, they would, no doubt, be held justly responsible to the country; but after what he had that evening heard of the character of the assembly, and after what he had heard in another place on the subject, he must say, that Ministers had acted with wisdom and sound discretion; and their conduct must raise them in the estimation of the country,—in the confidence of which he was happy to know they were gaining ground more and more every day. Before he sat down he would beg to say a word or two as to what fell from the hon.
991Mr. Long Wellesley
 did not intend to delay the House by offering many observations on the subject. No man could regret more than he did, that the time of the House should be occupied by discussions of that nature. The hon. Baronet, however, was fully justified in making his observations relative to the Kildare-place Society, and he should himself be unworthy of his seat in that House if he did not declare that it was a most useful institution. He differed from the opinion of the hon. member for Waterford as to the popularity of the Society; and if the Government wished to preserve the Union, and the security of the two parts of the empire, it would encourage a system which gave education to 120,000 children, Catholics and Protestants.Mr. Lefroy
 thought it premature to support a petition by such observations as had fallen from the hon. Member, as it was well known that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was not then in the House, had the subject under his consideration.Mr. Ellis
972 presented a Petition from Lincoln, praying for the Repeal of the Assessed Taxes, complaining of them as unconstitutional and oppressive, and declaring that they ought not to be continued in the eighteenth year of peace. The hon. Member stated, that the petition was signed by 1,272 persons, including most of the principal inhabitants and tradesmen of the town. He concurred in the prayer of the petition, and would like very much to know what the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant to do. He objected in particular to the tax on houses, and wished to see the collectors of these taxes diminished. If the hon. Alderman, who had given notice for a motion on the subject of these taxes, did not bring the subject under the con-
972Colonel Sibthorp
 said, that the petition was signed by several gentlemen, eminent in the profession of which the learned Gentleman near him (Mr. O'Connell) was so distinguished a member. An easy access to justice had been too long denied to the people; and he could not agree that it was better to delay still longer for the sake of such a measure as the learned Member might approve.Colonel Sibthorp
971 presented a similar petition from Lincoln. The great expense at present of law proceedings was a serious injury to all the middle classes, particularly to tradesmen. He rejoiced that one whose talents he admired, and whose loss
971Colonel Sibthorp
 observed, that it was a most grave and serious matter, for the Bill might be a Bill of Exclusion, and might regulate the succession. The Bill, however, contemplated only one contingency, and to that it ought to be confined.Mr. Tennyson
 expressed his surprise at the statement of the hon. member for Kent, and he must beg leave to say, that those of his constituents who refused to be sworn in as Special Constables during the continuance of the late Administration, completely abandoned the duty which as Englishmen they owed to their country. He hoped that the hon. member for Kent would tell his constituents, that when a man is called upon to maintain the peace of any particular district, he is not to say, "I will maintain it under this set of Ministers, and I will not maintain it under that." He hoped that the hon. Member would tell them that they were violators of that principle which every man should act upon,—that they were defaulters in the payment of that debt which every man owed to his country — that the maintenance of the public peace was a duty—that they were to act like private individuals as they are, and not make themselves tools or partisans of any Government. He trusted that the House would not consider such a statement as any argument in favour of the measure of reform, for the repeal of the malt-tax, or for the redress of grievances. Such arguments were subversive of the Constitution. He could not sufficiently admire the presumption and impertinence of these persons, as if they were authorised to decline assisting in the preservation of the public peace, because one set of men or another set of men happened to be in Office. He hoped, however, that the constituents of the hon. member for Kent would henceforward do their duty, and that he would never again state in that House circumstances so disgraceful to his constituents.Sir Charles Wetherell
980979 was not to be tempted into following the hon. Baronet, the member for Londonderry, into a discussion on the merits of the Kildare-street Society — "sufficient for the day is the evil thereof." He merely wished to observe, that as to the utility of the Kildare-street Society, he differed from the hon. Baronet. He denied that the Society was popular in Ireland; on the contrary, it was one of the most unpopular that ever existed. It was not unpopular in the county which the hon. Member represented, but the inhabitants of that county entertained different opinions on most subjects from the inhabitants of other parts of Ireland. The Gentleman who last represented them lost his scat because he dared to vote in favour of Catholic Emancipation. He had no doubt that the Society was very well received by them. The hon. Baronet probably subscribed to it because he wished to encourage education. The Society professed a great deal, and unfortunately had not convinced him of the truth of its professions. Its acts, however, were contrary to its professions; and he had left it in consequence. But, he did not retire alone; on the very day on which he resigned, the noble President, the Duke of Leinster, Lord Cloncurry, and many other gentlemen resigned, and for the same reason. The Catholic clergy of Ireland condemned the Society. He did not mean to argue theological points, but the hon. Member had thought fit to introduce one, and he would not shrink, either in that House or in any other place, from defending the doctrines of the religion he professed. He objected to allowing the word of God to be placed
980979Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he well knew that legal reform had been too long delayed; and all that he desired was, that, when granted, it should be effectual. He did not wish to discourage the petitioners, but he must repeat, that they would not find the proposed measure so efficacious as they expected.Mr. O'Connell
 also again contended, that the Bill, as it was worded, might be a Bill of Exclusion.Mr. O'Connell
 took the same objection to the clause as the hon. and learned member for Kircudbright (Mr. Cutlar Ferguson), but he thought the best way of amending: it was that proposed by the Attorney General.Mr. O'Connell
 was extremely anxious to call the attention of the petitioners to the fact, that although the principle of local judicature was excellent, and of the most ancient practice, yet in the details of the bill introduced into the other House. there would be found many objections, such as the complexity of its provisions, and the utter impossibility of one man combining all the duties imposed upon him by the bill. These things would in a great measure prevent the bill being beneficial, but he still approved of it as an experiment, though he would advise petitioners to be cautious how they wished to extend the operations of the system until they found its effects by experience.Mr. O'Connell
 said, that he was in Pall Mall on the day in question, and saw the whole procession pass. He could not tell why, but there had been an impression on his mind, while the procession was passing, that he should see the tri-coloured flag among the banners; but it was not there; he could take upon himself to say, that there was no tri-coloured flag, and he should be ready even to depose to that fact in a Court of Justice.Mr. Cornewall
 said, it was not his intention to oppose the proposition of the noble Lord, for although it was a departure from former precedents, existing circumstances sufficiently accounted for the deviation. On all other occasions it had been the first act of the Legislature, on the demise of the Crown, to make provision for the Civil List. He was not surprised at the proposed deviation from established custom, but could not help regretting it, as the precedent might possibly prove inconvenient hereafter. It appeared to be most for the interest of all parties, that the question should be brought to a conclusion as soon as circumstances would admit. Under this feeling, he repeated, he did not mean to give any opposition to the motion just made by the noble Lord.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to know at what time it was intended to renew the committee which was appointed last Session to inquire into the state of the trade with India and China?General Gascoyne
 said, that the petition had not resulted from a public meeting, but had been got up privately. He objected to the petition, because one passage of it asserted, that if a rational reform were not granted, the people would take it by violence. That did not express the sentiments of the people of Northumberland, for the population of that county was peaceable, and not at all disposed to seek reform or improvement of any kind by measures of violence, or by any but the most legal and constitutional measures-In that statement he was sure that his hon. colleague would concur.Mr. Bell
 suggested that these returns ought also to be made regarding the value of every benefice in Ireland.Mr. Leader
 said, he had intimated on a former occasion that it was not his intention to drop this subject, and he would now state, for the information of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that on an early day, on Monday next, he would present a petition from individuals of the Jewish persuasion, and he would then state when he meant to bring the question forward which he was, at some period of the Session, fully pledged to do.Mr. R. Grant
 said, that the passage did not allude to the people of Northumberland, but to the people of England in general. He would put one question to his hon. colleague. Did he or did he not believe that the people of North Shields were favourable to reform?Mr. Beaumont
 presented a similar petition from North Shields.Mr. Beaumont
 hoped, that the returns would be demanded, not merely from the incumbents of all benefices in the gift of the Crown, but also from the incumbents of all churches throughout England.Mr. Fyler
973 in presenting several Petitions from different parishes in the county of Kent, praying for Reform in Parliament, and a reduction of Taxation, said, that be quite agreed in the prayer
973Mr. Hodges
"We feel, that in justice we ought not to suffer a moment to pass away without communicating to your Grace, the great and unprecedented distress which, we are enabled from our own present experience to state, prevails among all the peasantry to a degree not only dreadful to individuals, but also to an extent which, if not checked, must be attended with serious consequences to the national prosperity. In making this communication to your Grace, it is our only object to call the attention of the Government to the real state of the country, and in the hope that effectual measures may be taken to alleviate distresses which press so heavily and severely on all classes of society."975 did not mean to follow the course pointed out by the hon. and learned Gentleman, by reading his constituents a severe lecture. Instead of lecturing them, it would be better if he were to endeavour to confirm them in their present opinions. He trusted that the present Ministry would do their duty, and by that means effectually prevent disaffection and outrage. With respect to the conduct of the Magistrates in the county of Kent, he would take the liberty of referring to an Address, a Memorial sent to the late Prime Minister by the Grand Jury of the county of Kent. In that memorial, addressed to the Duke of Wellington, it was said,
"We feel, that in justice we ought not to suffer a moment to pass away without communicating to your Grace, the great and unprecedented distress which, we are enabled from our own present experience to state, prevails among all the peasantry to a degree not only dreadful to individuals, but also to an extent which, if not checked, must be attended with serious consequences to the national prosperity. In making this communication to your Grace, it is our only object to call the attention of the Government to the real state of the country, and in the hope that effectual measures may be taken to alleviate distresses which press so heavily and severely on all classes of society."975Mr. Hodges
993992 said, there could be no doubt that a meeting, such as that assembled the other day for the purpose of going up with an Address to the Sovereign, was illegal. Such a meeting might be, as that was, quite peaceable, but still, an actual tumult was not necessary in order to render it illegal. The mobs which assembled under Lord George Gordon, professed that they met for the most peaceable purposes, but, nevertheless, all the authorities of that day, and ever since, had no doubt that they were illegal assemblies. Indeed, it was impossible to consider that an assemblage of 10,000 or 20,000 persons round the doors of Parliament, in times of public calamity, or in a period of great excitement, should not have some undue control on their proceedings, and on this ground such assemblages, however peaceable their professed and even real object might be, were very wisely prohibited. With respect to the case before the House, he was very glad to find that Government looked upon it rather as an exception to the general rule than the rule; for undoubtedly, if such assemblages
993992Sir Robert Peel
 admitted, that the Committee was very fairly formed. If individuals were not included who last night spoke in favour of reduction, it could only have been the result of chance, arising out of the manner in which the appointment of Committees was ordinarily arranged. The subject to be considered was an exceedingly delicate one. It would be very difficult to say what would be a sufficient remuneration for a Prime Minister, or a leader in the House of Commons, without inquiring into the private circumstances of the individual. With reference to the circumstances in which he was placed, he could not help thinking that the object of this inquiry would be much better served by omitting him (Sir R. Peel) and his right hon. friend. They were placed in a more painful situation than if they even were subject to the influence of the Government; because any honourable man in office would much rather agree to a reduction of his salary, than say that for many years he had been receiving more than the public ought to have paid. In his opinion, therefore, it would be more likely to afford satisfaction to the public, if those who had held office were merely called on to give their evidence. It would be much more agreeable to him to appear before the Committee as a witness, than to sit on it as a Judge; for if he gave his conscientious opinion that the salaries ought not to be lowered, it might be unjustly supposed that he was only vindicating the character and conduct of himself and of those who had been connected with him in office. If it were necessary that he should act on the Committee, he would not shrink from the performance of his duty; but he thought it would be better to omit his name and that of his right hon. friend. He begged leave again to state his willingness to give all the information in his power, to facilitate the inquiry; and to say, at the same time, that he thought the Committee was very fairly framed.Sir R. Peel
 entered his protest against introducing words into the Bill which would imply that any Queen Consort might be Regent.Sir Robert Peel
 was now more convinced that there must have been some mistake as to the flag being a tri-colour; but even if it were, it would be unfair to fix upon it as the act of those who managed the procession. In an assembly of 10,000 persons, it was impossible to guard against the introduction of such a flag, by one or two; and it would therefore be unjust to charge it as the act of the whole.Sir Robert Peel
 wished to be understood as not giving any opinion as to the policy of permitting this procession; but he would fully admit that, under the circumstances in which the knowledge of it had reached the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, it would have been impolitic to proscribe the meeting. He had been long enough in office himself to know the cases of difficulty which often presented themselves to the Home Secretary, and he fully admitted the difficulty in which the noble Lord was placed when he heard of the intended procession at so very short a period before the day that it was to take place. No doubt, if sufficient notice had been given, the noble Lord would, as he ought, have prevented it; but with so little notice, and the preparations that had been made, it was, he admitted, acting with prudence to let it proceed undisturbed.Sir Robert Peel
 thought there was no necessity for the Amendment. The Bill was intended only to apply to existing circumstances. Certainly it was possible that her Majesty might die, but before the King could complete another marriage he must come to Parliament. That would be time enough to provide for the case the hon. and learned Gentleman supposed. The present Bill was only to remove doubts as to who should exercise the Royal authority in one particular case, and therefore the Amendment was not necessary.Sir Robert Peel
 cautioned the House how they admitted the proposed alteration, for it would alter the whole principle of the Bill. The very intention of the Bill was to provide for the contingency of her present Majesty having no issue, and that alone. He would remind the House, that it would be very unadvisable to make any general measure without much consideration, for it was possible that marriages might be contracted which would be good in law, though not held valid by Parliament. If they meant to constitute a Regency for all possible cases, a different bill would be required.Sir Robert Peel
 said, that the hon. Member who rose to order, was himself not quite in order.The Speaker
 expressed his regret at not having seen the hon. member for Dorsetshire on the Committee that morning. Had he been present, he doubted not that he would have been appointed Chairman, —a situation for which his extensive experience peculiarly qualified him.Sir G. Warrender
981 wished to ask a question of the noble Lord before the House went into a committee. The Charter of the Bank
981Sir H. Parnell
 thought the perfection of the Bill was, that it was strictly limited to the particular case; and should the case supposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman arrive, the King would have to come to Parliament to complete his marriage, and then the circumstance might be provided for.Sir M. W. Ridley
 observed, that the Society was one which derived its support from grants of the public money, and that being the case, the proper time for discussing its merits would be when those grants should be next proposed. There could be no objection to the proceedings of the Society, so long as it was willing to afford education in such a manner as persons of different religious persuasions could approve of: the complaint against the Society was, that its principle necessarily excluded a considerable number of the people of Ireland from the benefits of that education, which the national grants were destined to promote.Sir J. Newport
 moved the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider further of the Supply to be granted to his Majesty.Lord Althorp
982 said, he thought it would probably be found proper and fitting for the House to enter into an inquiry on this subject in the present Session. He had not positively made up his mind whether that inquiry should be instituted during this Session or in the next; but his impression was, that it would be desirable if it took place in the present. As to his right hon. friend's observation upon the course which former Governments had pursued with respect to the Bank, he
982Lord Althorp
 said, it was not his intention to move for the renewal of that committee before the recess. The reason was, that the President of the Board of Control would not take his seat in that House until after Christmas, and it was necessary that he should be present when the committee was renewed.Lord Althorp
 said, he was quite ready to give the hon. Member an answer. His object was to place no person on the Committee who could be supposed to be under the influence of Government. With respect to the placing two of the late Ministers on the Committee, that was done for the purpose of arriving at details of official business, which could not be given by any other persons. And though he had been all his life politically opposed to them as Ministers, still there were no individuals on whose honour, fairness, and integrity, he would place greater reliance. If their salaries had been too high, the blame rested with the House, and not with them; and, therefore, it was proper that the whole subject should be investigated by a Committee, whose labours would be laid before the House, which could then decide on its recommendation. The hon. Member said, he was surprised that no person who spoke in favour of a reduction of salaries was placed on the Committee. It was strange, that he overlooked the hon. member for Porsetshire, who had been all his life anxious for a reduction of expenditure. The hon. Member also observed, that some Gentlemen who spoke last night unfavourably of a reduction of salaries, were named on the Committee. But, he could say, that he selected the Committee with the greatest care before the debate, and therefore what then passed could not have affected the nomination. With respect to the hon. Alderman, he had no objection to his being added to the Committee. He had quite forgotten that the hon. Alderman had given the notice alluded to. His great object was to frame the Committee so as to give perfect satisfaction to the country; and it would have been most absurd if Ministers intended any thing else.Lord Althorp
990Mr. G. Price:989 begged leave in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Member, to state the circumstances of the case as they had come to the knowledge of Government. Very soon after his noble friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department came into office, he was waited upon by a deputation from the trades' societies, who expressed the great disappointment that had been experienced by the bodies to which they belonged, at not having had an opportunity, after the preparations they had made, of testifying their loyal and dutiful attachment to his Majesty, as they expected to have done had he visited the City; and they added a wish that they might be permitted to present the Address they had prepared at one of the levees. To this his noble friend replied, that there could be no objection, but his noble friend did not understand that it was intended that the deputation should be accompanied by any procession such as that which had taken place, and it was only a day or two before the intended presentation that he learned that it was to be accompanied by the procession of the trades. As soon as that information reached him, he lost no time in consulting with the Magistrates of police and others whose duty it was to attend to the preservation of the peace of the metro-polis. From these gentlemen he learned, that the peace of the City would run less risk of being interrupted by allowing the procession to proceed peaceably, than by prohibiting its assemblage, and they added that if no order to disturb it were issued, they would be answerable for the preservation of the peace, for which they had made sufficient arrangements. The result was as had been predicted. The meeting
990Mr. G. Price:989Lord Althorp
 saw the difficulty which had been pointed out, but in general he agreed with the view taken of the Bill, and of the care required to alter it, by the right hon. Baronet. If it were necessary to alter the Bill, he should prefer the Amendment suggested by his hon. and learned friend, the Attorney General; but, at the same time, as the Bill was of so much importance, he hoped his hon. and learned friend would not press his Amendment till the Report was brought up.Lord Althorp
 concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that it would have been more desirable to make an arrangement for the provision of the Civil List at the commencement of the Session, but the late changes having been effected so recently, it was out of the power of his Majesty's present Ministers to make themselves masters of the details in a manner which would enable them so soon to propose the Civil List on their own responsibility. Had they attempted to do so, they would not have acted consistently with their duty to the public. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to apprehend danger from the precedent, but all precedents were to be considered in connexion with the circumstances which induced them, and he had no hesitation in saying that the future recurrence of similar circumstances would warrant the adoption of a similar line of conduct.Lord Althorp
l. said, he should at present merely move "That it is the opinion of this committee, that a sum not exceeding: 100,000l.Lord Althorp
 could say nothing of the petitions, but he knew them to be signed by most respectable people.Colonel O'Grady
lllll wished to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the supplementary Civil List, which added 3,000lllllMr. R. Gordon
 did not think himself called upon to say anything on the subject, as those pensions were granted by his predecessors before he or his friends came into Office, and he had had nothing to do with them, nor did he consider himself bound to enter upon the conduct of his predecessors.Lord Althorp
 said, one of the pensions was granted to the wife of the late Lord Advocate of Scotland; and he must say, that learned Lord had long performed his duty well, and had but. last year brought in a Bill which abolished many offices, some one of which would probably have been given to himself. He was confident that grant would be favourably regarded in Scotland, and he believed in the country at large; the manner of making it might be open to observation, but not from him.Sir George Warrender
 said, it was usual for Ministers going out of office to grant pensions, and he thought the practice was perfectly justifiable, as it was making provision for persons whose services deserved it, and who would certainly have been provided for if Ministers had remained in Office.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that his observation applied only to the mode of granting: the pensions. He thought Ministers ought to be closely watched in these respects.Mr. R. Gordon
 said, that it was perfectly right that the present Ministry should be watched—and closely watched—by that House and by the public. It was most desirable that every Government should be watched, for the temptations to do wrong were numerous. As he was upon the subject of pensions, he would merely say, that the recent arrangements in Ireland could not have been made with any view to serve the friends of Ministers, for they benefitted persons who were not their friends, and directly the reverse. The Government had felt it essential to have persons in Ireland in whom they could repose the strictest confidence. He would not say more upon the subject until the arrangements were complete, and till then he felt confident that every hon. Member would be satisfied with what he had said.Lord Althorp
 concurred in the opinion that every Government should be watched with the utmost vigilance.Sir R. Price
 was disposed to watch the present Ministers with entire confidence, especially with reference to the noble Lord (Althorp), who in all the relations of private life had acquired the esteem, the admiration, and attachment of all who knew him, and whose integrity and whole conduct in public life were equally respected by all parties.Sir G. Warrender
 thought the pensions ought to be reduced. The fine example of disinterestedness and of noble personal sacrifice set by the Marquis Camden, he was sorry to say, had been followed by nobody. The Marquis's conduct had excited the admiration of the whole country; but he regretted that in the House of Lords he was rather shunned as a bad example, than followed as a good oneSir R. Bateson
1004 said, he would not trouble the House with any observations of his on the present occasion, were it not necessary to reply to the speech of the noble Lord who spoke last, and not leave uncontradicted the assertion that Ireland was not taxed; he begged to assure the noble Lord, that Ireland was not only taxed highly at the present moment, but would have been taxed more by his Majesty's late Government, and with the concurrence of the late Parliament, were it not that the demise of his late Majesty prevented the measure being carried through that House. Ireland had no reason to be obliged either to the Government or Parliament for her escape on that occasion, and if she was not more taxed, it was only because she was unable to bear more taxation. The assessed taxes, it was true, were taken off, not so much as a measure of relief, but because, they produced, so
1004Mr. R. More O'Ferrall
1017101610151014Robert WilsonMaberly; said, the measure which was the subject of the prayer of this petition would require, and he trusted would receive, from an English Legislature that consideration and attention which every measure should receive, when acknowledged to be of considerable importance. He should not, however, be doing his duty to the persons who had requested him to support their petition— to those who had been entitled designing and interested men, if he did not state, that the thousands who had been so designated, and whom he had seen assemble for no other purpose than to benefit their country—were as patriotic as the hon. Member who censured them. [Mr. 1017101610151014Robert WilsonMaberly;O'Gorman Mahon
 expressed a decided opinion against the repeal of the Union; but he could not hear the observations of the hon. member for Abingdon, without rising to deny that the agitation in Ireland was caused by interested and designing persons He must admit that many of the ablest and most honorable men in Ireland supported that measure, and he feared, by not supporting it, he had lost so much of the favour of his constituents as to endanger his success on a future occasion. He entirely agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Clare, and denied that the object of the Catholics of Ireland was to tear down the Protestant establishment, and set up their own in its place. He believed in his heart that the Catholics had no such desire. He ever should, as a Catholic, discountenance any attempt to give power to the Clergy of the religion which he professed. The Catholics only desired that their religion should enjoy the same impartial protection as all religions did in America and France.Sir John Bourke
10191018 hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would take the state of Ireland into their serious and immediate consideration. There was one point to which he wished to advert, and it was this—after the passing of the Relief Bill, confident hopes were entertained on all hands, that peace and tranquillity would be restored to Ireland; it was producing such effects, till the agitation of the repeal of the Union commenced; it had produced the best effects till that arose. As a resident of the north of Ireland, he. could assure the House, and the hon. member for Waterford, that this agitation was again arousing bitter feelings of hostility and party dissension in that part of Ireland. The party contests in that part of the country were again commencing, in consequence of that agitation. He spoke advisedly when he said, for he knew that the fact was so, that the Orangemen of Ireland would rally again—that they would make this a party-question, and that the former dissensions between Catholics and Protestants in the north of Ireland would
10191018Sir Robert Bateson
1020 said, that the statement which had fallen from the hon. Mem-
1020Colonel O'Grady
 explained, that he had only deprecated the agitation of the repeal of the Union, as it would be productive of religious animosities.Sir Robert Bateson
 had heard many debates in that House on Irish subjects, and night after night debates on petitions for a repeal of the Union. He could not see on what the complaints of the Irish people were founded, as compared with the people of England. They were lighter taxed; in fact, he might say, they were not taxed at all, for they paid no assessed taxes. If hon. Members for Ireland complained, why did they not introduce measures to that House?" For his part, he did not know what Ireland needed more than she had already obtained. But whatever she needed, it was the business of Irish Members to introduce suitable measures, not complain that it was not done by others.Lord W. Powlett
1001, at the request of the petitioners, supported the petition. He had been accused of being the instigator of the petitions upon this subject, but he denied the charge, and appealed to the hon. member for Limerick for its fallacy. The petitions were, in fact, produced by great distress, which made men cast about for relief. He had announced last year that the distress was great, and it continued. It was impossible, indeed, to give an adequate idea of the distress and misery of Ireland. In Limerick it was frightful. He regretted, that the hon. member for Limerick disagreed with the petition; for he thought a repeal of the Union was the only measure that could possibly relieve
1001Mr. O'Connell
 said, that the gallant member for Southwark had again attacked him; but on the three points on which he attacked him he was ready to meet him. He said, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had traduced the English militia: he had never done so in any genuine document that had come from him, and he had not charged it with any thing that he was not able to prove. If the gallant Member would point out any thing untrue with regard to the English militia, which had been stated by him (Mr. O'Connell,) he would retract it. His assertion with regard to Byrne, and the conduct of Lord Cornwallis, he was ready to prove at any time; he could prove Lord Cornwallis had made the compromise he had stated in that instance with the yeomanry. He meant, in spite of the advice of hon. Members, to continue the agitation for the repeal of the Union. He was grateful for emancipation, but he had always said at Catholic meetings, that he sought emancipation with a view to get back their Parliament, and at a meeting in 1810 he had offered to the Dublin Corporation to give up the demand for emancipation if they would join for a repeal of the Union. The repeal of the Union was the object of his whole political life.Mr. O'Connell
l.l. regretted to hear much of what had fallen from hon. Members. With regard to the observations of the member for Abingdon, who had stated from his own peculiar sources of information, that those persons who urged the repeal of the Union appeared to him chargeable with sinister motives; he could, not avoid complaining that the hon. Member should so traduce those men. The hon. Member should have made some inquiry before he ventured to make such a charge. The Irish people had much confidence in the new Administration, but their confidence would never induce them to give up the question of a repeal of the Union. A noble Lord (Lord Wm. Powlett) had said, that Ireland was not grievously taxed. The noble Lord must have strange ideas of taxation. Ireland was taxed one million to Grand Juries, two millions for the support of the Church establishment, and four millions were paid into the Treasury. Was this taxation not grievous?—In addition,—although to a certainty the tax was paid in England,— the duties on tea were to be included. They were not considered as part of the Irish revenue, but they were substantially so. Since the war, thirty millions of taxation had been taken off England, while only 500,000l.l.Mr. O'Connell
10031002 said, that he was not desirous of troubling the House at any length, but he could not allow the opportunity to pass without expressing his opinion on the subject. Many individuals had told him that it would give them the greatest pleasure if he would undertake to support their
10031002Mr. Ruthven
 thought, that the hon. member for Waterford ought to give Government fair play in its efforts to meliorate the condition of Ireland, and not throw difficulties in its way, by agitating that country. The only argument, indeed, which the learned Gentleman used in that House for the repeal of the Union was the neglect of Ireland by the King's Government. The charge always made by Irish Members- was, that Government neglected the affairs of Ireland. But now we had got an Administration, the members of which had always shown themselves friends to Ireland, and they stood pledged to do what they could to promote its prosperity: he thought, therefore, that the new Administration ought to get time to arrange their movements before any thing should be said as to their future intention in regard to Ireland.Mr. Briscoe
 was convinced, that if agitation were not artfully kept up by designing persons, Ireland would be tranquil, and would excite a confidence that would occasion a flow of capital into that country. He had the means of knowing that the petitions asking for the repeal of the Union did not express the sentiments of the people. He thought the hon. and learned Member for Waterford might do something to remove the agitation which now prevailed, if be were so disposed.Mr. Maberly
s.l.s.1009 was desirous, as a pointed allusion had been made to him by the hon. and learned member for Waterford, of saying a few words in explanation. He begged to state, that he received his information from a person as well acquainted with Ireland as the hon. Gentleman. There could, however, be no doubt, that if agitation were put an end to, and Ireland were allowed to repose, prosperity would begin. How could capital flow into a country where there was no security
s.l.s.1009Mr. Maberly
1013101210111010 was of opinion, that the hon. members for Southwark and for Waterford met on pretty nearly equal terms—they had both been aspirants for popular favour— they had both assisted in fanning the flame of patriotism in their respective countries, and giving it a practical direction; and the gallant General could not consistently condemn altogether in another the course which he had, in some degree, pursued himself. He regretted deeply that his hon. friend the member for Waterford, should have a stronger claim to allowance for anger and irritation than any other public man. After being returned for an independent county, an Act of Parliament was made to exclude him from the highest honour which his countrymen could confer. The beardless boys of his profession, and the incompetent men had, in unnecessary and extraordinary numbers, been advanced before him; and though nothing could deprive him of public support, yet everything had been done, even whilst engaged in the legitimate and glorious endeavour to emancipate millions of his countrymen, which the most rancorous personal hostility could devise, to deprive his family and himself of the fair
1013101210111010Mr. Leader
 presented two petitions from the city and county of Limerick, praying for a Repeal of the Union. The hon. Member said, that he was sorry he could not, consistently with his sense of public duty and personal integrity, give any support to the prayer of the petitioners. He was well convinced that a repeal of the Union would not benefit the people of Ireland, but that it would materially injure that country, and inflict the greatest evils upon the empire at large. As he gave the petitioners credit for honourable motives in forming the views they entertained upon the subject, it was but reasonable that they should extend the same liberality towards him, and that they should concede to him what he willingly yielded to them—the right of forming private opinions upon the subject.Mr. Spring Rice
1005 thought himself as
1005Sir G. Warrender
10081007 said, that the hon. and learned member for Waterford had said a great deal, on various occasions, of the happiness and prosperity enjoyed by Ireland under its Parliaments; he had described its state then as one of the highest prosperity, and the hon. and learned Member affirmed, that the greatest benefits had accrued to Ireland from being represented by its own Parliament. He could take upon himself to say, that a more unreal picture was never drawn than that of the prosperous state of Ireland under that Parliament. A more miserable country never shocked the eye of civilized humanity than Ireland under that system,—a more miserable country never existed than it was at that time. He could bring the most incontestible proofs of what he asserted. The greatest abuse of legislative power prevailed— monopoly of every kind existed to the greatest extent—the most venal patronage that can possibly be conceived was tolerated—and a total neglect of the interests of the people existed to a degree that debased and disgraced the country. Of these facts he was an eye-witness, having been much in Ireland at the time of the existence of this much talked of Parliament. From Ireland he went to Egypt; and he could assure the House, that wretched as were the natives of that country—miserable as the Egyptian was,—in fact, he was as abject, poor, and miserable as a human being could be who had the means of existence,—it was his feeling, and the feeling of every one who accompanied him there, that the Egyptians were not so abject, poor, miserable, and indescribably wretched, as the Irishmen whom they had left. In such a state of things, the Union was hailed, not as the means of usurping the dominion over Ireland, not as the means of checking its prosperity, but as a measure of mercy and benevolence; it was hailed with satisfaction, because it was considered that it would be the means of correcting the abuses which existed, and it was the wish of every intelligent man to afford esential relief to that suffering country. If the country was in such a state as the hon. and learned Member represented, what induced the people to rebel? Who were those that engaged in the Rebellion, and what induced them to rise against the Government? It was not on account of religions—the Catholic Church did not
10081007Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that the previous crimes of Byrne rendered his execution indispensable, and he had documents in his possession which would prove the incorrectness of the assertions of the hon. and learned Member.Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that Ministers felt the deepest interest for the condition of Ireland, nor could he agree that either that House or the Government had neglected the affairs of that part of the empire; for since he had had a seat in Parliament, a very great portion of the time of the House had been occupied every Session in discussing subjects relating to Ireland. It was right that this should be the case, for the attention of Parliament, and of the executive Government, ought to be peculiarly applied to Ireland, as it was a part of the empire that most demanded relief. For himself, he had no property in Ireland, and no personal connexion with it whatever, and yet he had always attended as closely to the affairs of that country as any Irish Member. It was he who had moved for the committee on the state of Ireland; and from the labours of which so much benefit was acknowledged by all parties to have been derived, particularly as the Report of the Committee had produced such a change of feeling upon the subject. He could assure the House, that his Majesty's Ministers were duly impressed with the importance of Irish affairs, and would pay to them the utmost attention.Lord Althorp
 said, that as a friend to the people, he also would support the measure of the hon. member for Staffordshire, for prohibiting the truck system, to which, he was convinced, much of the distress of the working classes was to be attributed.Sir Horace St. Paul
1045 was glad to find that the hon. Member had become the friend of the people. It was an extraordinary circumstance, for he believed that the hon.
1045Mr. Hume
 complained of the personalities of the hon. member for Middlesex. He could tell him that his parliamentary conduct had been as conscientious and as upright as that of the hon. Member. The course which he pursued was, he believed, as useful to the people, and tended as much to improve their comforts, as that of the hon. Member.Sir Horace St. Paul
 hoped, that the master manufacturers would themselves adopt a liberal system for the benefit of the people.Lord Belgrave
 expressed his concurrence in the sentiments of the right hon. Baronet; but he would not then enter into the subject, as it would be fully discussed to-morrow. If the Bill were inconsistent with the principles of free-trade, that was in his eyes a great recommendation, for free-trade was very injurious.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 reported, from the Evesham Election committee, that the sitting Members, Sir C. Cockerell and Archibald, Lord Kennedy, had not been duly elected, and that the petition against their return was neither frivolous nor vexatious. He further stated, that the Committee had come to the following Resolution, which he had been ordered to report to the House,—" That it is the opinion of this Committee, after hearing the evidence which has been laid before it, that Sir C. Cockerell, has, by his agent or agents, been guilty of bribery and corruption at the last election for the borough of Evesham, and that it is also the opinion of this Committee, that Archibald Kennedy, commonly called Lord Kennedy, has, by his agent or agents, been guilty of bribery and corruption at the same said election."Mr. E. B. Clive
 moved, that a new writ should be issued for the election of two burgesses to serve in the present Parliament for the borough of Evesham.Mr. Clive
 said, that having been a member of that Committee, he thought it his duty to move, that the evidence which had been taken before it should be laid before the House. He was no friend to general reform; but he certainly thought that some proceedings should be taken in this instance, and! he should therefore move to that effect. Mr. A. Duncombe
 informed the hon. Member, that the motion for a new writ must be first disposed of, before the House could entertain such a motion.The Speaker
1043 was then about to move
1043Mr. Duncombe
 then moved, that the evidence taken before the Evesham Election committee should be laid before the House.Mr. A. Duncombe
 said, that as Chairman of the committee, he felt it his duty to state, that the committee had come to a very proper resolution; at the same time, as we had now got an Administration which had determined to take the cause of reform into its own hands, he did not think that there would be any necessity for taking ulterior proceedings upon the evidence laid before the committee; and he trusted that the hon. Member would pause before he put the country to the expense of having it printed.Mr. Clive
l1070 was happy that the present conversation gave him an opportunity of stating, that not one month, but six months ago, he had submitted to his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and to other hon. friends, the absolute necessity of a strict inquiry into the mode in which the public money was wasted in pensions, sinecures, and salaries. It was in vain to order returns to be made on this subject. Some subterfuge was always resorted to to defeat the objects in view. For instance, in answer to an order that was directed last year to the Hackney-coach Office, one gentleman admitted that he held four offices. He (Mr. Hume) happened, however, to know, that this gentleman held five offices; and the return was therefore sent back with a request that it might be amended. This, however, was refused, on the ground that there was no precedent for the required proceeding. This and other circumstances led him to the result, that it would be quite impossible to accomplish anything that would be satisfactory to the House and the public, in the way of preventing money from being fraudulently taken out of the pockets of the people, by any returns from the offices themselves; and that it was indispensable that every individual case should be made
l1070Mr. Hume
1071 observed, that his hon.
1071Lord Althorp
ll1072 expressed the great satisfaction with which he had heard his noble friend declare, that it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to abolish all offices to which there were no duties attached. He hoped it would be remembered, that the offices of the Lord Privy Seal and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster came under that description. They were wholly useless. He agreed entirely in opinion with his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, with reference to the pensions which terminated with the demise of the Crown. He was aware that it would be said, that they were equitable vested rights. But he maintained that, in the existing circumstances of the country, they should either be done away with, or considerably reduced. Let the House look at the Pension-list; let it observe how many persons, in consequence of various family connections, had been for years and years quartered upon the public. How often had his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, endeavoured to bring the subject under the consideration of the House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer of the time had always refused to submit the
ll1072Mr. R. Gordon
 admitted, that sinecure offices were a great burthen on the country. He maintained, that the individual who held the Great Seal ought to have an income sufficiently large to maintain his dignity; but that there was no defence for patent places. They were granted in many cases most unnecessarily, and frequently fell at remote periods, to persons by whom they ought not to be possessed; the means by which those persons were paid being taken from the suitors in Courts of Justice, and thereby injuring the administration of the law. It was entirely a different thing, however, with the great Officers of State; and it appeared to him to be a very wild notion to condemn the ancient office of the Lord Privy Seal —an office of considerable use. It was undoubtedly necessary that every Administration should have some places, or other means of liberality, to assist them in carrying on their Government. They could not always proceed upon the principles of the hon. member for Middlesex, and burthen a man to the last endurable point, with the least possible remuneration for his labour. Honest exertions in the public service ought to be fairly rewarded. He would not reward those who did not deserve it; but he would always reward those who did.Sir E. B. Sugden
l1074 said, he had never heard his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, maintain that men who laboured for the public ought not to be paid for their labour. His hon. friend's argument had been, that those who did not labour ought
l1074Mr. O'Connell
 observed, that he had not been able to make a satisfactory statement on that subject, because the whole arrangement had not been completed.Lord Althorp
1075lll proceeded:—The 10,0001075lllMr. O'Connell
1076 recommended his Majesty's Ministers to repudiate all aid derived from corrupt sources, and to pursue steadily the course which they seemed to have marked out for themselves. They would then be supported by the country. He perfectly agreed with the noble Lord, that the time had gone by when any Administration could carry on the Government of the country unless they threw themselves on the people, and particularly on those Representatives who enjoyed the confidence of the people. Not long ago, an hon. Member asked the noble Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs a question with reference to the salary of the new Ambassador to France. The noble Lord's answer was, that of course that Ambassador would go out with the salary that had been fixed by the late Ministry. Now why that was a matter "of course," he (Mr. Robinson) was at a loss to understand; especially as he recollected, that
1076Mr. George Robinson
1077 observed, that, in answer to the question which the hon. Gentleman had put to him on the subject, not long ago, he had stated, that the late Ministers had reduced the scale of the salaries of Ambassadors, and, therefore, that any new Ambassador would go out on the reduced salary of that scale. He had added, however, that the subject would still come under the revision of his Majesty's present Government. In the salary of the Ambassador to France the late Administration did not contemplate any reduction. No doubt, therefore, the present Ambassador to France would go with the present salary; with the understanding, however, that it would be subject to any reduction that might be considered proper. He was sorry to hear the hon. Gentleman assert, that England was the country the worst served by its Ambassadors; although he was glad to find that the assertion was qualified by limiting its application to
1077Lord Palmerston
 was satisfied that if Ministers did their duty in the manner which they had declared they would, the most beneficial consequences would be the result. But he owned he was lamentably disappointed, after their assurances that they would never flinch, but would retrench to the back-bone, by the commencement which they had made. There was the noble Lord who had just been launched as Ambassador to France, to remain precisely at the same salary as his predecessor. If the noble Lord had stated that the offices of Lord Privy Seal, and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster were abolished, or that those noble Lords who held them were to serve without pay, if he had stated that we were to have a Government without salaries, and a Civil List without pensions, it would have been something; but the new Ministers were already finding excuses for treading in the steps of their predecessors. If the Government adhered to a system of unflinching retrenchment and reform, they should have his support; but it would be a melancholy thing if, after all their fine professions, they were merely to tread in the steps of their predecessors. He expressed his exceeding astonishment that the members of the new Administration who had recorded their opinion to the effect that Ireland should, by the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant, he rendered an integral, and cease to be, as it were, a colonial portion of the British dominions, should not have come forward, now that they had the power, and declare that the office should exist no longer.Sir J. Yorke
1078 contended that it was a great mistake to suppose that the office of Lord Privy Seal was a needless office. "With respect to pensions, he begged to say, that it was his hope the new Government would not be induced to place the Sovereign in the invidious position of creating an immense mass of private distress. Reduction, he insisted, ought to be confined to offices during pleasure. Those emoluments ought not to be taken
1078Mr. H. Twiss
l said, that he could not concur in the view of the last speaker, that pensions should be considered as vested interests. On the same profligate principle men were said to have a vested interest in slaves. With such answers to their demands the people of England would not be satisfied. They remembered that 113 Privy Councillors divided amongst themselves nearly a million of money, and that upwards of two millions were paid in salaries of 1,000lMr. Wilks
 was sure that his noble relative would cheerfully accede to any recommendation of that House respecting the salary he should receive for his services abroad. He observed, that it was unfair thus to assail the Government before it had time to draw the sword from the scabbard; and it ought not to be expected to cut down every abuse before it had had time even once to wield its arm.Lord Morpeth
l was of opinion, that a salary of 11,000lAlderman Waithman
1079 had heard with some degree of anxiety the premature expression of distrust, upon the part of certain hon. Members, towards the Government. It appeared these hon. Members doubted whether the new Administration would act in accordance with the professions they had made. For himself he had no such doubt. He would have decidedly flinched from taking office if he had not received pledges that all their professions
1079Mr. R. Grant
1080 rose to declare, that the present Government should have his support as long as their conduct was in accordance with their professions. He had at present perfect confidence in the Administration, and he thought time should be allowed them. They should be afforded an opportunity of dealing with things, not abstractedly, but generally. He recommended classification in the work of reduction. They should not take a single office—it was useless and invidious; they should arrange a scale for the several salaries under the head of diplomacy, and go on with the Dead Weight, pensions, and other charges on the public revenue. The present Administration was the only one that ever professed to act upon the principles which were held by him (Mr. Maberly) and his friends. The determination that no reform should take place, although the Duke of Wellington only had the resolution to declare it, was, he believed, common to all the members of the late Government. He entreated hon. Members not to damage an Administration which was
1080Mr. Maberly
 declared, that the late Government had professed and pursued the principle of retrenchment; and remarked, that their reductions were not directed to the paltry salaries of clerks, but to those offices which had heretofore been filled up for the purposes of patronage. The Duke of Wellington, for instance, had not given away a single commission during the existence of the late Administration.Mr. Courtenay
ll observed, in reference to the assertion of a worthy Alderman (Waithman), that the salary of 11,000llLord G. Bentinck
1081 said, it was a gross error to suppose that the diplomatic expenditure of England exceeded that of other countries. He did not, however, mean to state that the salary alluded to should not be reduced; but the question required consideration. He declared, that although he had not recorded any vote upon the subject, in his opinion the keeping up the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was not consistent with a just economy. But it did. not follow, that because he entertained this opinion, he should approve of the removal of this officer in the present state of Ireland. It did not follow that Government, even if entertaining similar sentiments, was to say, "We will maintain our consistency—we will brave the danger—we will charge the
1081Lord John Russell
 declared his adhesion to the Ministers, but remarked, that if it wished to retain the confidence of the people, they must look upon the diplomatic expenditure with a scrutinising eye. He did not yet despair of them, and thought it was most unreasonable in others to find fault with them, for they had yet been only three weeks in office. He certainly hoped that the large perquisites of Diplomatic Offices would undergo revision.Mr. Lennard
1082 hoped, that the Government would suspend all the promotions of the year till it had fully ascertained how many were actually required. Every promotion was but an addition to the amount of the pensions of the country. There were now many more Officers, both in the naval and military establishments,
1082Mr. Hume
 knew, that the subject referred to by the hon. Member had been under consideration, and that it was the desire of the Government to relieve the country as much as possible from the amount of the Dead Weight. He must say, however, that he did not agree with the hon. Member that all promotion whatever ought to stop. He acknowledged that it ought to be checked—that it should not go on without an absolute necessity— but to stop it altogether would be fatal to both Services, and to the Navy in particular. The great object, certainly, of the Government would be, to relieve, as much as possible, the nation from the expense of the Army and Navy.Lord Althorp
1083 said, that as the hon. member for Middlesex had declared, that the promotions under the Administration of the Duke of Wellington had been greater than during the war, he thought it due to the character of that noble Duke to call the attention of the House to the regulations which the noble Duke had instituted to put a check upon promotion in the Navy, so that no promotion took place in any particular class till there were three vacancies in that class. That regulation had been at the time so much approved, even by the hon. member for Middlesex, that that hon. Member recommended to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston), then Secre-
1083Sir G. Clerk
10851084 observed, that he and his hon. friends in the same situation with himself, were greatly embarrassed by having two Governments, the late and the present, to deal with. In his opinion it had been truly stated by the noble Lord, the. Paymaster of the Forces, that the Duke of Wellington did not understand the feelings of the times, and did not go along with them as he ought in the belief of the necessity of the utmost economy and retrenchment. At the same time he was ready to confess that the late Ministers had gone as far as the corrupt system of that House, and of the Constitution of the Government allowed them. But with respect to going further, to their trying a new and constitutional mode of governing the country, that House had the best evidence to the contrary, in the declaration made by the noble Duke himself, who had told the House of Lords, and it was fortunate for that House, and for the country, that he had openly told them, he was determined not to try that new system which this country was now resolved, and the present Government determined, should be tried for the salvation of the community. He would not cavil at the opinion of that illustrious person, but he believed that the noble Duke was consistently the friend of the old, as he (Mr. Hobhouse) and his friends were of the new system. Under these circumstances, he could not but believe that the noble Lord was right in saying that the Duke of Wellington did not understand the circumstances of the times. Those circumstances were such,
10851084Mr. Hobhouse
1086 said, he had been misunderstood on one point of advice which he had offered, and that was, in his recommendation of economy. He had suggested, certainly, that those pensions
1086Mr. H. Twiss
 rose to order. He submitted that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Twiss) had delivered his sentiments once on the subject already during the evening, and that it was irregular for him again to address the House on the same subject.Mr. W. Duncombe
 submitted, that when a Member was attacked personally, the courtesy of the House properly permitted him to defend himself.Mr. H. Twiss
 disclaimed any intention of saying anything offensive of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He never intended to insinuate that the hon. Member's career had not been honourable and consistent.Mr. Hobhouse
 would not venture to intrude his sentiments upon the House, but that he felt his constituents were deeply interested. He understood the present Government was founded upon the principles of peace, retrenchment, and reform, and whilst Ministers acted in accordance with those principles, they should have his cordial support. He could assure the House that, amongst his constituents, and he believed throughout the country, there was a strong and increasing feeling in favour of reform.Mr. Slaney
lll££
££12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund
12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.
183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.3,000,000Sugar Duty
3,000,000Sugar Duty80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.
80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.££Receipts from the East-India Company
££Receipts from the East-India Company
££
££12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund
12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.
183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.3,000,000Sugar Duty
3,000,000Sugar Duty80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.
80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.££Receipts from the East-India Company
££Receipts from the East-India Companyll1087l££Total
££Total1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous
1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous1,695,000For the Ordnance
1,695,000For the Ordnance5,597,000For the Navy
5,597,000For the Navy££The amount voted for the Army was
££The amount voted for the Army was
££Total
££Total1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous
1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous1,695,000For the Ordnance
1,695,000For the Ordnance5,597,000For the Navy
5,597,000For the Navy££The amount voted for the Army was
££The amount voted for the Army was said, that perhaps the best mode of rendering himself intelligible would be, to state the supplies that had been voted for the present year, what were the Ways and Means which had been voted, and what remained to be voted. And first, as to the supplies voted.
lll££
££12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund
12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.
183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.3,000,000Sugar Duty
3,000,000Sugar Duty80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.
80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.££Receipts from the East-India Company
££Receipts from the East-India Company
££
££12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund
12,500,000From the Consolidated Fund183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.
183,500Repayment of Exchequer Bills.3,000,000Sugar Duty
3,000,000Sugar Duty80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.
80,000Surplus from supplies of last year.££Receipts from the East-India Company
££Receipts from the East-India Companyll1087l££Total
££Total1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous
1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous1,695,000For the Ordnance
1,695,000For the Ordnance5,597,000For the Navy
5,597,000For the Navy££The amount voted for the Army was
££The amount voted for the Army was
££Total
££Total1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous
1,932,000And for the Miscellaneous1,695,000For the Ordnance
1,695,000For the Ordnance5,597,000For the Navy
5,597,000For the Navy££The amount voted for the Army was
££The amount voted for the Army wasLord Althorp
a laugh.1088 did not rise to oppose the motion of his noble friend, but merely to remind him of the peculiar situation in which the House was placed, with regard to the Estimates. The Estimates were for services performed from the 1st of January; they were never presented to the House until the end of February, and they were voted, perhaps, in June or July. What was called "the control of Parliament," therefore, was little more than a mockery, as the greater part of the money was spent before it was voted. In France the Estimates were voted a year in advance, and since 1825,
a laugh.1088Mr. R. Gordon
1089 said, he intended to follow up the question he had put in the
1089Colonel Sibthorp
1090 said, that if the hon. and gallant Member asked questions respecting all the useless places under Government, he might easily ask more than sixty questions. He could only assure the House, that the most rigid economy would continue to be enforced—that every office would be abolished that was not considered useful. He hoped that a very great saving might be effected in the collection of the Revenue, and he hoped, after the recess, to be able to come forward with some propositions on that subject which would show that, the Government was in earnest. He never defended the keeping up any situation on the ground that it was desirable to obtain influence for the Crown in Parliament. He never used such an argument at the other side of the House, and certainly should not do so where he then stood. As to the office of the Great Seal in Scotland, it was almost the only office of state left in that country, and was settled by the Act of Union. He was glad, however, that the consideration of the emolument attached to it had been referred to a committee. As to the holder of the Privy Seal in England, he was a Cabinet Minister, and he could assure the House, that a member of the Cabinet, in these times, did not hold a sinecure. To abolish all those offices the Government must change the whole course of the law. He could state, however, from his own knowledge, that it was resolved that every office that was not useful should, as soon as. possible, be abolished. The present Ministry had already abolished the office of Vice-treasurer of Ireland, of Postmaster-general of Ireland, and of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance; and united the offices of Treasurer of the Navy and Vice-president of the Board of Trade. Reductions in several smaller offices had also been made; and seven or eight offices, not reported against by any committee, had been abolished. As to the office of Postmaster-general, he was aware that it had been reported against by a committee of that
1090Lord Althorp
 expressed his entire satisfaction at what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His situation was certainly most difficult, for great responsibility attached to it, as the distress of the country was urgent, and the country looked to the noble Lord and his colleagues for relief. He (Mr. Alderman Waithman) should feel it his duty to watch the proceedings of Government; but, as far as it was consistent with his duty, he would give the noble Lord his support.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l1091lll did not wish to go so far as France for an example of voting estimates in advance; at the same time, the estimates ought to be laid on the Table three months before the House was called on to vote them, in order that they might be fairly explained and considered. The noble Lord should be prepared now to lay before the House what was required for next year. The Ministers would surely be able to make all their reductions by the end of January. They might state within a few days what was the largest sum they would want for the next year. It was the large establishments that should be looked to, if any real savings were contemplated. There was 7,000,000l1091lllMr. Hume
1092 contended, that all extremes were bad, and declared that no extreme could be worse than that recommended by the hon. member for Middlesex—that
1092Sir Joseph Yorke
1093 agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, that it would be highly desirable not to vote the Estimates for so long a period as that recommended by the hon. member for Cricklade; and he further thought, it would be highly desirable to have the Estimates laid before Parliament at as early a period as possible; but he must be allowed to say, that the worst possible economy would be to bring forward the Estimates prematurely, and before every possible reduction had been made which circumstances permitted. As to the question which had been asked by the hon. Gentleman, it was with regret he should give a reply to it, for he felt sorry to disappoint him; but truth compelled him to state, that the circumstances of the country had reduced his Majesty's Government to the necessity of making up their minds to propose the increase of the Army to the extent mentioned; that was, to the amount of 6,000 or 7,000 men; but he could at the same time assure the House, that every effort would be made to effect that addition in the cheapest manner possible. He was sure the House would concur with him in thinking, that at the present moment it was no matter of surprise that the Government should come forward with a proposition for the increase of the army. He was as averse as any man
1093Lord Althorp
lllll1094 thought, the situation of the noble Lord undoubtedly one of great difficulty, and he regretted to hear demands from hon. Members which it was not in the power of his noble friend, nor of any other individual whatever, to comply with. He was extremely sorry to hear the hon. member for Middlesex—particularly under the present circumstances of the country,—again advocating that doctrine, which was one of the most mischievous that a human being could possibly advocate,—the reduction of our military establishments. He would ask the hon. member for Middlesex, if he looked to the state of France—of Belgium—of Holland,—if he considered the present state of Poland and of the kingdom of Naples,—and of all the neighbouring countries; could he think that these were times to reduce the miserable, scanty military force which we have at this instant.
lllll1094Sir M. W. Ridley
10991098109710961095 had heard with the utmost astonishment the observations
10991098109710961095Sir Hussey Vivian
1100 was not surprised at the observations made by the hon. Baronet, the member for Newcastle. For a long series of years the hon. Baronet had always supported the necessity of keeping up the military establishments of
1100Mr. Robert Gordon
11021101 observed, that the hon. and gallant Officer, and the hon. Baronet had said, that the increase of the Army was necessary in consequence of the insubordination manifested in foreign
11021101Mr. Attwood
1103 admitted, that it had been stated to be the opinion of the Government that the distress was only to be relieved by reform and retrenchment. But, upon looking into the financial condition of the country, he believed that, by altering in some instances the pressure of taxation, and in others by increasing the ultimate amount of the Revenue—not by increasing, but by diminishing the taxes, the Ministers would be able to effect a very considerable relief of the distress. Upon comparing the state of the country at different periods with its present state, and the amount of taxation at these periods with its present amount, he was convinced that the taxation was by no means of such an amount, or of such a nature, as not to afford a reasonable prospect of relieving the distress by retrenchment, and by an alteration of the pressure of the taxes. It had been said, that Sir R. Peel's bill had been a cause of the distress—he would not deny that it had had some such effect; but it was necessary to look to the consequences which would now follow from any change of, that measure. What would be the result if this great commercial country were left without any fixed standard of value? To what had all the mischief now felt been originally owing, but to the depreciation of the standard of value, and to repeated tamperings with the currency? At the time when that depreciation took place, there was no intention to reduce the currency. But to do so advisedly, was the declared intention of the hon. Gentleman. But such a proposition had never been
1103Lord Althorp
 considered that the noble Lord (Althorp) trifled with his own understanding, when he allowed himself to believe that the Administration would be able to relieve the distresses effectually by any measures of retrenchment. When the noble Lord spoke of the evils which would result from another change in the currency, he omitted to look at the other side of the question. He did not consider the evils that would result from leaving it in its present state.Mr. Attwood
Tempus eget."" Non tali auxilia nee defensoribus istis1104 said, that he, for one, regretted to hear of an increase of the Army, for he had expected a reduction; yet he still more regretted to hear, that the increase was necessary to keep his Majesty's subjects in submission to the Government.
Tempus eget."" Non tali auxilia nee defensoribus istis1104Mr. Briscoe
1105 had not expected to hear, from an English county Member, such observations as had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He regretted to hear from that hon. Gentleman what was so much calculated to diminish the confidence of the people in that House. The tendency of the hon. Gentleman's speech was to intimate that the Ministers had neglected their pledges, and that those who supported them in that House forfeited the public confidence. The House had heard, no doubt, with great satisfaction, that the county which the hon. Gentleman represented was restored to tranquillity. But he would ask, did it appear that all the other counties of the kingdom would be tranquillised by the constabulary? Were not some of these counties in a state approaching to insurrection, despite of the civil force? More than fifty Members of that House had obtained leave to go into their respective districts on account of the failure of that force to maintain order. When applications had been made to that House to send bayonets to the people of his unfortunate country—when they asked for food, and received pills of lead—when they wanted the miserable potatoes with which
1105O'Gorman Mahon
1106 said, he was glad to hear from his noble friend before him, that it was not the intention of Government to consent to a change in the currency. Such a measure might produce some temporary prosperity, but it would terminate in ruin. He lived nearer than his hon. colleague to the disturbed part of the county which he had the honour to represent, and he could assure him, that the constabulary force had not been sufficient to restore tranquillity. The prisoners
1106Mr. Denison
 said, that what had fallen from his hon. colleague only served to confirm his opinion, that an increase of the army was unnecessary. The insufficiency of wages having been the cause of the discontent, as his hon. friend in a great measure admitted, the removal of that cause had restored tranquillity in the county of Surrey, and would have the same effect in other places.Mr. Briscoe
1107 was surprised that the hon. member for Surrey should entertain the opinion which he had expressed; nor was that surprise diminished, when he heard the opinion contradicted by the statement of the hon. Gentleman himself. At the same time that he described tranquillity to have been restored, he admitted the necessity of an increased constabulary to restore tranquillity, which he had just asserted already to exist. He denied that the object of the proposed increase of the Army was, as had been stated by the hon. Member under the Gallery (Mr. Attwood), to keep down the people. The object was, to protect the property of those who had a right to expect protection from the Government. Looking to the state of the southern counties, in which much had been done to excite those who were labouring under distress and privations, he would say, that some precaution on the part of Government was necessary for the protection of property. He agreed that the constabulary was the best force to be employed to put down domestic disorder: but yet those persons who submitted to the severe inconvenience of acting in that body for the preservation of
1107Lord Palmerston
 expressed his opinion, that the noble Lord would never be able to allay the public distress by mere reduction of taxation.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 moved, as an Amendment, that in the event of the death of her present Majesty and the remarriage of the King, this Bill should then come to an end, cease and be void.The Attorney General
 said, that the petition from the parish in question had been presented by his hon. colleague. He had no disposition to exaggerate anything against the new police, for it was well known that he differed from those who objected to that system. In the statement he had made he only gave the information which was communicated to him by a deputation from the parish. He admitted that a committee would be the most effectual mode of deciding as to the real cause of the increase of expense.Mr. Hume
d. said, that in one parish, with nearly 18,000 inhabitants, the addition of a rate of 8d.Mr. Wilks
1048 said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from the West-India planters and others interested in property in the West Indies. The petition, he observed, was one of very considerable importance. The petitioners stated, that they had acquired their property in the West Indies under the sanction of the laws, the same as all other classes of his Majesty's subjects, and they very justly complained of the outcry which was raised against them, and the manner in which petitions were got up in London, and sent down to different parts of the country, on this subject. The petitioners prayed that the House, in any measures it might adopt on the subject of colonial slavery, would not act with injustice to themselves and their fellow-colonists, but that any measure to be adopted should be on the principle of the fullest compensation for any loss or depreciation of property it might occasion. The noble Lord observed that he was as favourable to the
1048The Marquis of Chandos
1049 supported the prayer of the petition, and was understood to deprecate the manner in which the colonists had been attacked, and the inconsiderate demand which had been made for immediate abolition, without reference to the interests of those whose whole property it involved. He complained of the outcry that had been raised in the country against the West-Indian proprietors, and the attempt that there was, to force the House into a conclusion on the subject; in illustration of which, he mentioned a petition that had been presented from some congregation, by a noble Lord, on the 4th of November, which spoke of the impropriety of suffering traffickers in human flesh to hold a seat in that House, where they appeared like Satan seated among the sons of God, and which called on Parliament to grant no compensation to men that dealt in human blood. A crusade had, in fact, been preached in the names of Christianity and humanity, against what some gentlemen called the accursed horrors of the West-India Islands. They said, that the West-Indians were men who were the receivers of stolen property, knowing it to be stolen, and that viewing this, they could not help burning with a holy indignation. But these holy persons themselves were wishing to do what they decried—namely, rob others of their property; were preaching these doctrines at the risk of exciting insurrection, and were so determined against giving a fair hearing to one party, that they declared they could not give credit to any one who had been contaminated by breathing the air of a slave-colony. It was true that Christianity forbade slavery, but it was equally true that its doctrines forbade their letting loose a large slave-population, the in-
1049Mr. Marryat
1053s.s.l.10521051 had one word to add to the observations which had been made by his noble friend, or he should not have otherwise thought it necessary to call the attention of the House and the Government to the subject. The petition presented by his noble friend was signed by gentlemen of great respectability—of as great respectability as any gentlemen in the House; and the great object of the petitioners was, to implore the House, if it granted emancipation, as that would destroy all slave property, to grant the West-India proprietors compensation. It further prayed, that the House would institute an inquiry into the whole state of society in the West Indies. Before the House did emancipate the slave, inquiry certainly would be necessary, by fair and competent judges, if it were only to ascertain what amount of compensation should be granted to his master. His Majesty's Ministers were probably not disposed to grant inquiry, as they were generally men who rested their claim to the confidence of the country by acting on this point in conformity to the sentiments of the people. He must, however, say, that he hoped from their general candour that they would not bow to the popular prejudices, that they would look at the question with coolness and impartiality, and that, aware of all its difficulties, they would treat it with a view of doing justice to all parties, and giving the country at large confidence in their decision. They would not listen, he was sure, only to the representations of the over-zealous partizans of either side, with whom the country was now inundated, and
1053s.s.l.10521051Mr. Keith Douglas
10561055 said, if the petitioners who asked for compensation, and if the noble Marquis who presented the petition, and the hon. Member who spoke last but one, had confined themselves to the subject of compensation, he should not have thought it necessary to say one word on the subject. He thought—he believed the public also thought—that compensation ought to be given. He agreed with the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman, and he agreed, too, with the petitioners, that whenever slavery was extinguished, all the loss of property which might arise should be made good by the Government. He agreed in this opinion, not because he agreed with what fell from the hon. member for Dumfries, which, by the by, he did not understand, about the compact of society He did not see from that species of metaphysical argument how protection for property was necessary; but it was found by experience that it was bad for men that property should not be secured, and that great inconvenience resulted from violating property, and on that ground, it was said, that men ought to have their property protected. After the public had declared, by Acts of Parliament, that men should be property, after they, had been bought and sold, deposited as pledges, and made to answer for dowers, great inconvenience would result from taking away that species of property, and the masters and owners ought to be compensated. He declared, that he thought, in common with most of those who petitioned the House, that slavery ought to be extinguished; but he and the petitioners all contemplated, on its extinction, giving a reasonable compensation to the masters of slaves. If, therefore, the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman had confined themselves to compensation, which he admitted was just, he should not have said one word on the subject; but they had mingled other matters with that which he always wished to see separated from it. He agreed that exaggeration could not do any good, and he regretted, as much as the noble Lord and the hon. member for Dumfries, that cither anger or exaggeration should have been displayed on
10561055Mr. Macauley
1057 complimented the last hon. Member on the tone and temper of his speech, and expressed a wish that every other discussion on the subject should be carrried on in the same calm and temperate manner. All parties wished, he believed, that calumny should be put down; at least, he was sure that the West Indians did. That was the language, also, of the petition presented to-night, which prayed that the Legislature would not interfere
1057Mr. Bernal
Illic sera rubens accendit lumina Vesper."—" nos primus equis oriens afflavit anhelis,1058 acquiesced in the sentiments which fell from his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Macauley). They did equal honour to his philosophical mind and to the strong love of truth and justice for which he was distinguished. He felt himself called on to say, that in the great town which he most unworthily, he was afraid, represented, the first wish of the great West-India merchants and proprietors was, that inquiry should be established, and that the truth should be displayed to the satisfaction of every man in the community. The next was, that if it were determined by the wisdom of the Legislature that an early emancipation should take place, then they wished that compensation should be given, and they looked on that as an inseparable condition. He and they both wished for gradual emancipation, as consistent with the great' principle of liberty, and the proper care of the rights of property. He was convinced that gradual emancipation was alone consistent with sound policy and the principles of humanity. He would use on the
Illic sera rubens accendit lumina Vesper."—" nos primus equis oriens afflavit anhelis,1058Mr. Ewart
 denied, that he meant to impute any blame to the right hon. Gentleman, or to the Government. He had only wished to assert, that the Government was bound to protect the property of the West-Indians. The right hon. Baronet had misunderstood his observations as to the slaves and labourers here. He had put that case hypothetically.Mr. K. Douglas
 hoped, that the hon. and learned Member would not delay, by any unnecessary opposition, the business of the House. The Bill was founded on the Report of the Law Commissioners, and ought to be passed.The Attorney General
 thought it would be desireable at that late hour to postpone the discussion. The Bills were of consequence; they made considerable alteration in the law, and could not be passed as a matter of course.Mr. Campbell
1108 said, the Bill was
1108Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, that the noble Lord would confer a great benefit on Ireland by allowing the Commissions to expire, and so put an end to the present race of Justices.O'Gorman Mahon
 believed, that much of the distress of the manufacturing districts arose from this system, and he should certainly support the motion of the hon. member for Staffordshire.Mr. Cresset Pelham
1050 said, that of all the questions which could come before the House, this was one of the most important. He concurred in much of what he had heard from the hon. Members on both sides of this subject, for he fully admitted the principle that slavery ought to be abolished, being fully impressed that it was directly opposed to the principles of Christianity; but he at the same time admitted, that in any measure which Parliament might be disposed to adopt with respect to the
1050Mr. Long Wellesley
1068 said, that the English Ambassadors were not paid so high as foreign Ambassadors. He could state, from his own knowledge, that a relative of his own had spent a large portion of his private property in sustaining the becoming dignity of his appointment, and had not received a pension till after seventeen years' service. It was very well known that many others in the diplomatic service had employed their resources in a similar way.
1068Mr. Long Wellesley
ll said, that there was a pension of 2,000llColonel Sibthorp
l commented on the great expense of the Foreign Ambassadors, and begged to ask if it was true, that Lord Granville had been nominated to the Embassy of Paris, with all the former salary of 11,000lColonel Sibthorp
 observed, that the hon. Member opposed inquiry as useless, and said, that the people of England were satisfied; but would that be the case when the Chancellor of the Exchequer called on them to contribute a large tax to pay the compensation? He protested against the House and the country being led away by the statements published in the Anti-Slavery Society's Reports, of which not more than one word in every five thousand was worthy of belief. He was disposed to grant emancipation when they were fairly prepared to compensate the planters for their loss; but before they determined on taking such a course, he thought it would be right to ascertain from what source of taxation the amount of the compensation was to be drawn.Colonel Sibthorp
1046 stated, that he was opposed
1046Mr. Tennant
 seconded the Amendment.Sir C. Wetherell
 said, that as it was past twelve o'clock, and as there was a whole handful of legal bills to be forwarded, he should move that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed till to-morrow.Mr. O'Connell
1066 contended strongly against granting compensation to the slave-owners, and deprecated the language used in the course of the debate. It was as much as to say, that the wrongs of the slaves should not be redressed, until the West Indians had received the price of human blood. One hon. Member had said, that nothing should be done until compensation was granted. Did not another Member say, that the treatment of the slave was as good as could be expected, and that his condition was comparatively happy, and he therefore deprecated all interference. He was surprised at the language which had been used throughout this debate, and, above all, at the observations respecting compensation. Good, God! if the West-Indian slave-owner gave freedom to his slave, would he not still be enabled to procure his labour?:- The negro must procure food and lodging and clothing; and how was he to do this, but by his labour? No one ever proposed that the property, that the land, and the houses should be taken from the West-Indians. He was at a loss, therefore, to understand for what they were to receive compensation. The right hon. Baronet stated, that society in the West Indies would be dissolved; but how this was to be occasioned he was at a loss to understand. If the slaves were emancipated, the Courts of Justice would still continue—the law would still be in force—and security to property would still exist—how, therefore, this was to be brought about, he knew not. The only change that would take place would be, that the planter would have to employ
1066Mr. O'Connell
 moved the Adjournment of the House.Mr. O'Connell
 felt obliged to his right hon. friend for the observations he had made. His opinion would have great weight, because he was sure that he had not formed it rashly. He would not enter into the subject then, as it. would be fully discussed to-morrow. The measure which he intended to introduce differed materially from that which he brought forward last year.Mr. Littleton
 said, it ought not to be forced on at that hour.Mr. Ruthven
 was convinced that the general question of Slave Emancipation must very soon be forced on the attention of his Majesty's Ministers, and it was desirable that such a question should be settled, not only by a vote of that House, but with the consent of the West-India proprietors, and under the sanction of his Majesty's Government. The petitions which he had seen against slavery rested their claims on the highest 'vantage ground; they designated slavery as a crime disgraceful to man, and they dwelt on the moral and mental degradation of the slave. These petitions had likewise additional weight by having affixed to them the signatures of clergymen of all denominations, who held that it was revolting to Christianity that it should be argued that slaves, were private property, and therefore must not be meddled with. He had looked at the subject with much patient attention, and he was convinced that the time was come when the Parliament must take the matter in hand, and decide that the slave should be set free.Mr. Briscoe
1059 would not have troubled the House, but for some observations which had fallen from the former speakers. The hon. member for Liverpool, as well as the other hon. Members, wanted inquiry; but what would be the effect of inquiry; why interminable delay? If they were to institute inquiry—if they were to send out that roving Commission which had bean spoken of, then to every proposition for meliorating the condition of the slave they would be told to stop till the Commission had reported—till the inquiry was completed; and they would stop till public feeling was cooled and deadened, and then they would stop for ever. It was a suspicious circumstance that inquiry was now demanded; and why was it not heretofore demanded? If, indeed, inquiry had begun ten years ago, at the instance of the West-Indians, there might now be some hope of reform. He formerly had proposed inquiry, and for that, much odium was thrown on him. The country was satisfied by the official documents already published. The business of the Government was, to put an end to slavery: that was what the country demanded, and it demanded that the abolition should be accomplished with the least, possible injury to the West-Indian masters, and the greatest possible benefit to the slaves. He had heard it observed out of doors, that the question of compensation was now insisted upon, not merely for the sake of the compensation, but as an insuperable obstacle to the abolition. If the West-Indian body came to the House with that disposition; if the planters said, that the Government must pay them 140 millions sterling; if they made such a demand, it would be plain that they did not wish for compensation —they wished to prevent abolition. In the speculations which were made on this subject, there was one party entirely overlooked to whom compensation was due; the slaves were entitled to compensation. He admitted that if the planters were injured—he always had admitted—that they ought to be compensated by the British Government; but it was forgotten that the right claimed over the slave was founded in an abominable crime. The
1059Mr. Fowell Buxton
 took that opportunity to ask the noble Lord (Althorp) whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any inquiry into the public distress, in connection with the change of the currency, or to adopt any measure of legislation to heal the wounds occasioned by the mischievous tampering with the currency by the Legislature since 1819.Mr. Attwood
1069 expressed his regret to hear that it was not the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring the subject of the currency under the consideration of
1069Mr. Attwood
 protested against the consequences which must arise from the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. If a bill were brought down conferring immediate freedom upon those who should hereafter be born, what would be the feelings of those who now lived in slavery, and what would be the evil to the colonies? But he did not mean to deny that every effort ought to be made for the amelioration of the system. Slave-evidence ought undoubtedly to be received, he would not say for the benefit of the slaves, but for the interests of the country, as well as of humanity; some other amendments were equally called for.Sir Robert Peel
10641063 said, it was impossible to overrate the enormous difficulties of the
10641063Sir Robert Peel
1047l.l. presented a Petition from St. John's, Hampstead, expressing approbation of the New Police, but praying that there might be some reduction of the expense. The right hon. Baronet also presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Deptford, which bore important testimony to the public advantage of the new police. It would be admitted that nothing could be more important than that property should receive sufficient protection in such a town as Deptford. The petitioners stated, that before the establishment of the new police, Deptford had no public watchmen. It had some watchmen paid by private individuals; and the petitioners stated, that during that time burglaries were committed almost nightly; but that since the new police had been established, there had been only two attempts at burglaries, in one of which the burglars were taken almost on the spot. One of the great objections urged to the present system was its great increase of expense; and on that part of the case he begged the House to suspend its judgment until the committee for which he should move after the recess should have had time to examine and make its report. The hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume), who from the station he held must be considered as a high authority on local matters relating to the county, had stated that in the parish of Poplar, the rate of watching had been raised under the new police from 1,4501047l.l.Sir R. Peel
d. said, that a parish of such extent, and number of inhabitants, must have paid some rate for watching before, so that the whole rate of 8d.Sir R. Peel
 said, he had three Petitions to present on a subject of very considerable importance. The first was from Walsall, the second from the manufacturing districts of Gloucestershire, and the third, which was signed by 14,000 persons, from Bolton; and the petitioners prayed the House to take the necessary steps for putting a stop to the practice which prevailed in those districts, and which was rapidly extending, of paying wages in goods instead of money. They objected to the system on three grounds—first, because it gave an advantage to the manufacturer who paid in goods over him who paid in money; secondly, because it injured the retail dealer; and thirdly, because it tended to degrade the working classes. If the Legislature suffered the system to continue, it could not refuse to allow the workman who received his wages in goods to pay rates and taxes in the same materials. The practice was also very disadvantageous to the poor man, as it precluded him from the power of saving any thing whatever. In the justice of the allegations of the petitions he perfectly concurred; and he certainly should support the measure which would shortly be introduced to the House to eradicate this evil.Sir R. Peel
lll1067 begged to call the attention of the House to a circumstance in which the right hon. the member for Edinburgh was concerned. That right hon. Gentleman had promised to be present when this subject was brought forward, but, as he was not in attendance, he (Mr. Kennedy) felt it his duty to lay the matter before the House. He held in his hand a paper, which had been laid on the Table of that House, and from which it appeared that the right hon. Gentleman of whom he had spoken held the office of Lord
lll1067Mr. Kennedy
106210611060: In consideration of what I owe to the office which I held under the late Government of his Majesty, as well as in consideration of what I owe to my own character, I trust the House
106210611060Sir George Murray
 thought it was highly wrong for one or two individuals to stop the business of the House. The measure was of importance, and if passed before next Term would remedy a serious inconvenience.Sir James Scarlett
 explained, that he did not want to force it on.Sir J. Scarlett
 opposed it, as contrary to the dignity and consequence of the House to allow itself to be defeated by one individual.Sir J. Scarlett
 consented.Sir James Scarlett
 moved the second reading of the Judgment and Execution Bill, on which—Sir James Scarlett
 recommended the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the Bill.Lord Althorp
 hoped, that the hon. and learned Member would not persist in his Motion, as it would occasion great public inconvenience.Lord Althorp
 replied, that it was not the intention of his Majesty's Government to propose any inquiry into the expediency of altering' the present plan of our currency. The hon. Gentleman would be perfectly right, with his view of the subject, to bring it forward for the consideration of Parliament; and whenever he did so, it was to be hoped that he would state explicitly what his object really was, and on what grounds he and his hon. friends were of opinion that the existing system of our currency could be advantageously altered: and whether it ought to be done by an increase of paper, by a restriction in the amount of cash payments, or by any new regulation with reference to the value of the metallic currency. For himself he would say, that, after having considered the subject long and attentively, he was perfectly satisfied that it would be utterly impossible to alter the value of our money, without producing an effect on the commerce of the country, that with reference not only to our exchanges with foreign countries, but to our domestic affairs, must be, in the highest degree, mischievous and destructive. It was of the utmost importance that the measure of value should remain fixed, and he, for one, therefore, would not consent to any further alteration in our monetary system.Lord Althorp
1065 fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet on the importance of the question, and the difficulties which attended its full consideration. While he agreed with the hon. Baronet and the other Members who had spoken on the subject, that the total emancipation of the slave should take place at the earliest possible period, he also agreed with them that every exertion should be made to render the negro worthy of the station to which he would be raised, and capable of appreciating the full benefits of emancipation. He thought it, therefore, of the utmost importance, that no means should be neg-
1065Lord Althorp
1054 would not have said one word, if it had not been for some of the observations of the last hon. Members. Something had been said about "Swing;" but that gentleman's efforts were not to be justified by the exertions of the people of England to relieve the slaves. The slaves of the West Indies were the property of their masters; the labourers of England were the property of no man. The relations which took place in this country between landlord and labourer were the consequences of an unalterable state of society, and depended on principles that everywhere prevailed. The slavery in the West Indies was founded on an original wrong, which was yet unredressed, which was, in fact, in its consequences yet in full operation. It was founded in Acts of Parliament utterly repugnant to the sentiments of right and wrong implanted in the heart of man. The Bible said that there should be always poor in the land; but it nowhere said, that there should be always slaves. On the contrary, it gave reason to believe that slavery should be extinguished. He was aware, and had always said, that there was exaggeration on the side of the
1054Lord Morpeth
 said, it was necessary that a change should take place in the Embassy; and Lord Granville was appointed. With regard to the salary of the Ambassadors, the late Government had revised that portion of the public expenditure, and the new Ambassador was going out at the reduced allowance; but if the House thought a further reduction should take place, the subject was open to consideration.Lord Palmerston
 thought, that the bribery merely extended to out votes.Mr. Wells
 said, he should move by way of Amendment on the Motion of the hon. Member, that there be a Super-sedeas on the issuing of the Writ, or that a suspension of its operations do take place until after the printing of the evidence, and the further consideration of the Report of the committee.The Marquis of Chandos
 suggested, that it would be better if the noble Lord would give notice of his Motion for Thursday, for which day the further consideration of the Report was fixed. There was no precedent for suspending the operation of a Writ under such circumstances as the present.Mr. Ellice
 could not see any objection to suspending the new Writ until after the evidence and the Report of the committee had been considered. He expressed his surprise at hearing the hon. member for Coventry, and another hon. Gentleman who spoke from the Treasury Bench, object to the noble Lord's Motion on technical grounds, especially when it was considered that the present Government was pledged to reform.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 explained. So far from wishing to interfere in the matter, his only wish was, that the matter should be set right with the House. He neither desired to oppose the suspension of the Writ, nor the printing of the evidence. He cared not how the House might dispose of it; his only object in recommending postponement was, that the matter should have a fuller and fairer discussion in being brought forward after the evidence was in the hands of hon. Members.Mr. Ellice
 observed, that corruption had only been proved against twenty-two electors, and he thought it would be a severe measure of justice to disfranchise 456 voters on account of the offences of two-and-twenty. Common rumour prenounced the borough to be corrupt; but the mode now proposed was not the proper mode of dealing with boroughs which were looked upon as corrupt merely upon the ground of common rumour. With the case proved against it, it would have been only a waste of the time of the House to attempt to deprive it of the elective franchise; for sure he was, that no disfranchisement bill, would be permitted to pass either Lords or Commons upon the evidence brought before the committee. At the same time, if the noble Lord wished for the suspension of the Writ, he saw no objection to it.Mr. Bolton Clive
ll moved, that the petition be brought up. He said, that the duty against which the petition was presented fell with peculiar severity upon the citizens of London, and all who resided in the neighbourhood of the metropolis. The operation of the tax was most partial and oppressive. It yielded about 800,000llMr. Alderman Wood
l assured the House, that no boon could be more acceptable to the City of London, and the inhabitants of the metropolis and its neighbourhood generally. There were many parishes in which it had been most bitterly complained of. A reduction of the expenditure to the amount of 1,000,000lMr. Alderman Thompson
 supported the petition, and said, that the tax pressed with peculiar severity on the poor.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that the Property-tax, suggested by the hon. member for Southwark, might be a very good thing, but it had nothing to do with the present discussion. The tax complained of was one which affected one of the first necessaries of life, and it ought to be got rid of instantly.Mr. Hothouse
 wished to call attention to the Report made by the Committee which was last Session appointed to inquire into the subject of sea-borne coals, for the purpose of observing, that a sentence had been interpolated, which ought not to have been, in the Report. It might be altered, as it implied that the House of Commons required the consent of the City of London to do what it had the power to do of itself.Mr. Warburton
, the Chairman of the Committee, admitted that the sentence in question ought not to have been in the Report; he knew not by what oversight it had got in. There could be no doubt that steps ought to be taken to remedy the imperfection, as neither he nor any other person in the Committee had ever thought it at all necessary to ask the consent of the City of London. The paragraph related to local fees, and the City might bring in a private bill to regulate them if it pleased, but if it did not he would bring in such a bill.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, that one-half of the duty was paid by the people of London and Middlesex. It was a heavy and oppressive charge, and one that ought to be immediately removed. He saw no reason why the Scotch should be entirely free from it, and the Irish pay only half a duty, and why the English should alone be the persons to suffer.Mr. Hume
1126 was willing to take his share of the responsibility, but not more than his share. As the Committee agreed
1126Mr. F. Lewis
 said, that he would support the repeal of this tax, though it would be of no benefit to Scotland; but, at the same time, he thought that no tax ought to be repealed without considering how the deficiency was to be filled up.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
11311130lllll1129l1128l1127 said, he rose to present several Petitions relative to the state of Ireland—two of them wholly connected with the estates of the Corporation of Kilkenny and Galway; three for the Repeal of the Legislative Union; two relative to the Grants to the Kildare-street Society. He now prayed the immediate attention of the House to the case set forth in the Kilkenny Petition. It was from the citizens and inhabitants of that city, which was still the first inland city in Ireland, where Parliaments had anciently been held, and which contained above 30,000 inhabitants. It stated, that James the 1st, to improve the condition of the inhabitants, gave to them an excellent Municipal Constitution, and that the King carefully distinguished the different branches of government, and provided that the laws for the common utility of the city should be made by the Mayor and citizens, assembled for that purpose by public summons, and placed the executive power in different hands, and gave the election of all civic offices to the Mayor and citizens. That his Majesty made the inhabitants of Kilkenny the exclusive objects of his bounty, and limited i the right of citizenship to them only. It stated, that a compact was entered into between two individuals and their respective partisans in the Aldermanic body, to revolutionize the government of this ancient city, and to substitute a narrow, illiberal, and oppressive oligarchy for the excellent Municipal Constitution granted by his Majesty. That this oligarchy con-
11311130lllll1129l1128l1127Mr. Leader
 said, that he was afraid many of the statements contained in the petitions were exaggerated, but at the same time he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would persist in referring them to a committee. Nothing could more conduce to the peace of that part of the country than a full understanding of the subject.The Earl of Ossory
1132 was glad to hear such sentiments fall from the noble Lord, whose family was so much connected with that part of the country. He did not rise to enter into this subject at present, but to put a question to the noble Lord (Althorp) on a subject of considerable importance to the country. His question was founded on a declaration which he had heard made by the noble Lord who was at the head of the law in this kingdom, that the learned Baron now at the head of the Court of Exchequer was not competent to discharge the duties of the situation. A similar case occurred in one of the Courts in Ireland, and he alone had petitioned against the continuance of that Judge in
1132Mr. O'Connell
,—In answer to the hon. and learned Member's question, I say that I do not know, but I believe he is not.Lord Althorp
 had no doubt of the hon. Member's word, but the name of the Magistrate might throw a light on his statement.Mr. Hume
115211511150l.l11491148114711461145s.s.s.1144s.s.1143tommy11421141ex parte,1140, in rising to offer his decided opposition to the hon. member for Staffordshire's Bill, at that the earliest opportunity, was willing to bear testimony to the purity of the motives with which the hon. Member brought it forward. If the House would hear him for a short time, he hoped to be able to give a sufficient answer to all the arguments which his hon. friend had
115211511150l.l11491148114711461145s.s.s.1144s.s.1143tommy11421141ex parte,1140Mr. Hume
1163116211611160 was glad that this discussion had taken place, and was glad that so many hon. Members attended it, for he believed it would go far to quiet the irritation among the labouring classes when they found that this subject, so immediately relating to them had been so much and so carefully canvassed by that House. He had most attentively read the reports that had been made by the committees on the Combination-laws respecting the state and condition of masters and men. Those reports undoubtedly contained much very valuable information, but still they were not sufficient for him, or for any of those hon. Members who, like him, had no personal experience in these mat-
1163116211611160Mr. Hyde Villiers
1164 said, that viewing all the circumstances of the case, he thought the Bill, with proper modifications (for he would not pledge himself to approve of the whole of its provisions) ought to receive his support. Some provisions ought to be introduced with respect to the mining districts, which were peculiarly
1164Mr. D. Gilbert
Question.1176 said, that representing a very populous and manufacturing town, he was desirous of saying a few
Question.1176The Attorney General
 said, that if the House was impatient, perhaps it would be better to adjourn the Debate.Mr. Hume
Nullius in verba said, that the hon. German opposite (Mr. Harvey) had not pointed out in what way the measure before the House would remedy the evil complained of. One of the members of Government had said, he was afraid to refuse legislating in compliance with the wishes expressed in the petitions, while the other two of his colleagues who had spoken, approved of the measure, without stating how they expected the alleged remedy to operate. Much had been said of the theories of political economists—but he, for one, would say, that its motto was "Nullius in verbaMr. Warburton
11811180 said, that in the present Debate he stood in the extraordinary predicament of one who agreed with what had been said by the Gentlemen, both for and against the present measure. He might use the words of Sir Roger de Coverley, that "much might be said on both sides." But above all, he agreed with what had fallen from the hon. member for Boroughbridge, although he knew
11811180Sir Francis Burdett
, in reference to the remark of the hon. member for Abingdon, explained, that the Chairman of the committee gave the casting vote against reporting on the state of the borough.Mr. A. Duncombe
 moved, that the evidence be printed. Two objections had been made to this course by the hon. Chairman of the committee; the first on the ground of expense. Now, God forbid that he should be the means of expending one shilling of the public money in an unnecessary manner, or that he should not always be an advocate for retrenchment, yet he thought that in the present case the House and the country would not only bear him out as to the propriety of his Motion, but that they would even demand that the evidence should be printed, if he had made no proposition to that effect. As to the second objection to his Motion —namely, that it evinced a want of confidence in Ministers, who had pledged themselves to reform, he replied, that he gave them entire credit for the sincerity of their professions, and conceived, that he was only co-operating with them in bringing forward the case of a borough, in which there were 426 voters, a number in reference to which nothing was distinguishable but one mass of corruption. At the same time, he frankly admitted, that he was no reformer, in the sweeping acceptation of the term. He expressed his astonishment at the Chairman of the committee having last night moved the issuing of a new Writ, at a moment when the consideration of the evidence might have the effect of leading to the disfranchisement of the borough. The hon. Chairman had moved for the postponement of the further consideration of the Report of the committee till Thursday, conscious, as he must have been, that a new Writ having been issued in the meanwhile, a fresh election must take place. Thus the damage would be done, and the question of a deprivation of the franchise could not be raised.Mr. A. Duncombe
1182 said, that he would by no means refuse his assent to a measure which would tend to alleviate distress
1182Mr. Cresset Pelham
 said, the question before the House was, on the printing of the Minutes, and of the Motion for suspending the Writ, which came before them in the form of an Amendment: he begged to say, that he thought it ought to be brought forward upon notice.Mr. F. Baring
l1122 said, that entire and total corruption prevailed in the borough of Evesham, and gave as an instance,
l1122Lord G. Lennox
 had carefully attended to the whole case during its progress, and did not think that the evidence warranted the committee in adopting such a strong course as that of reporting its opinion of the corrupt state of the borough. It was only proved, that' about twenty-five out-voters out of, he believed a total number of 450, had been guilty of corruption.Mr. Buller
1177 complained, that the rule which the bill of the hon. member for Staffordshire required them to lay down was not that of allowing men to make the best bargains for themselves; on the contrary, its principle was, to put men in a state of destitution, and so take it out of their power to form any contract at all. If this interference between the master and the labourer was suffered, he did not know what might be the consequence. The thing of which he chiefly complained was, that this measure was unphilosophical and unstatesmanlike; for its object was beyond the power of man to accomplish. It was a bill which would most certainly be evaded; because the higher rights of self-protection would always interfere with any law they might pass. The noble Lord had stated as a reason for passing this law, that the parties were not free; but how could this be any argument for making them less free? which would, he contended, be the result of the proposed enactment. Another reason that
1177Mr. Tennant
 was perfectly willing to agree to postponement, if, by doing so, any advantage were to be gained; as he was most desirous of affording the noble Marquis, whose conduct was mixed up with the concerns of the borough, the fullest and fairest opportunity of preparing his defence; and he hoped if he should agree to the postponement required, that in the interval, those vindictive measures would be given up, which unhappily had been already carried too far, and he trusted that some assurance would be given to the House, that until the matter was one way or other disposed of, nothing further would proceed from the quarters to which he alluded.Mr. Tennyson
1175 said, that, even if he agreed with the hon. Member who just sat down, that the mode of paying wages by the truck-system had been introduced as a substitute for paper money, that would be an additional argument in his mind for supporting the present measure. Until the House decided that another system of currency should be established, they ought, to adhere to that which existed. Bad as the paper system was, it was better than a currency of cheese and butter, and other matters of that description. He agreed with those Members who said, that the truck-system was an indirect mode of diminishing wages; but he went further, for he said, it was an unjust and undue mode of diminishing wages. In giving his support to this measure, he considered he was violating no principle. The principle which he always advocated was, that they should confer the greatest possible benefit on the people for whom they had to legislate. With regard to the principles of political economy, he advocated them because they served as a fixed line to guide him, but he had never asserted that they were to approach that line under all circumstances, and at all times. He owned ho. was not so sanguine as some of his hon. friends as to the benefits to be expected from this measure. It was a difficult subject, but, after all the consideration he could give it, he believed, the measure would be beneficial to the great mass of the manufacturing population. It had been said, in the course of the Debate, that the truck-system had grown up because it was pleasing to the labourers. That might have been the case, in the first instance, but subsequently, no doubt, the practice had been greatly abused. No one could doubt that, under the system as it now existed, it was out of
1175Mr. Poulett Thomson
11791178d..— The hon. Member who has just sat down appears surprised, notwithstanding the number and variety of the arguments which have been pressed into this night's Debate, that no one has attended to what he said last night, or ventured to grapple with his challenge to shew what is philosophical legislation. I do not consider it inconsistent with sound philosophy to introduce from time to time, those measures which may become necessary, and which have for their object the guardianship of the rights of the labouring community from the oppression of the master; and if one proposition be more characteristic of that than another, it is this now before us. All who have opposed this measure call for inquiry, as if they were in doubt as to the object of the complaint. Do they propose to examine before the committee a greater number of witnesses than there have been petitions presented this night? Have we not had one petition signed by 17,000 persons; a second by 10,000; a third by 9,000; all complaining of a specific grievance? What they complain of is nothing ambiguous, nothing undefined, nothing but what is characteristic of the misery they endure. They state, that for their labour they cannot get their due reward in that standard of value which is convertible into the necessaries of life. It is said, that if they do not take lumps of fetid bacon, or that miserable stuff called beer, but in reality dish-water, at 611791178d.Mr. D. Whittle Harvey
 said, that as the Members seemed impatient, he would not detain them by making the observations in reply which he should otherwise have considered it his duty to make. He would remind the House that the question which he had submitted was, whether they would give him leave to bring in a bill on the subject which had that evening occasioned so much discussion? Of that bill, the object would be little more than to render effectual the laws which already existed. His hon. friend (if the member for Bridport would allow him to use the term) had called on the member for Colchester to explain in what manner the bill would put down the abuses complained of. Now, it was too much to ask of any hon. member to explain how a bill would operate, of which he yet knew none of the provisions.Mr. Littleton
1139113811371136lls.s.dd.s.s.,: He was satisfied that the hon. Member would not desire him to name his author, but he could assure the House of the correctness of the statements. The hon. Member then detailed a variety of instances of hardship suffered by workmen from truck-masters. Such as one man receiving a cheque for 101139113811371136lls.s.dd.s.s.,Mr. Littleton
Name, name;" by Mr. Hume11351134 said, it was a great satisfaction to him, after the disappointment, occasioned by the dissolution of Parliament, of the numerous class of the population for whose benefit he desired to introduce a measure against the Truck-system, and after the rapid extension given to that system, that he had thus early an opportunity of introducing a measure for putting an end to it. At the same time, he much regretted that a subject so materially affecting the capital, the industry, and the trade of the country had not fallen into better and abler hands. It might happen that some Gentlemen who lived in the remote and more agricultural districts of the country were not acquainted with the bearings of the system, so as to form an opinion of its evil tendency. But, at the same time, the subject was so notorious—its effects had been so frequently discussed—its abuses were so flagrant, and its dangers were so imminent, that he trusted such Gentlemen would defer somewhat to the judgment of those who, by living in the districts where the system was in operation had more competent means of forming an opinion on the subject. The facts that he intended to quote would not be confined to any particular district, but were the result of a pretty extensive acquaintance with the system in every part of this island—he said, of this Island, because he did not intend to include the kingdom of Ireland within his Bill, as, unfortunately, its manufactures were not extensive enough to have given rise to the introduction of this system. Though, for the last 400 years, there had been something of this system existing among the population of this country, yet it was only during the last 130 years that it had assumed that character which had gradually led to the mischief which they now saw. But he begged, in the first place, to call the attention of the House to what was the nature of this system. It was the payment of labour in goods or provisions instead of money; and the mode in which it was carried on by the manufacturers was, to setup a large shop or store, containing all sorts of necessaries for their workmen; so that, instead of paying them money for their wages, tickets were given to these
Name, name;" by Mr. Hume11351134Mr. Littleton
1167 said, that he was one of those who had opposed the former bill, and from all he had since heard, it appeared to him, that if ever there was a bill which should have been sent for consideration to a Select Committee, this was one. There was a great difference of opinion, not only on the facts, but on the principles of the measure, and it was very
1167Mr. H. Gurney
 observed, that if the mode of debating petitions were universally practised, they would not get through more than one or two in the course of a year.General Gascoyne
 said, that if a shilling duty were charged upon coals, at the mouth of the pit, it would yield quite as great a revenue as the present duty, and the arrangement would be highly beneficial to the public. Whenever the member for Devonshire brought forward a motion for the repeal of the duty, it should have his cordial support.Mr. Briscoe
 was proceeding to reply, whenMr. Maberly
, adverting to the Petition which was in the hands of his hon. friend, the member for Bletchingly, and which he had announced his intention of presenting that night, respecting the borough of Stamford, begged to recommend the postponement of it till after the holidays. He expected, before the resumption of business, to be in possession of a document, which, unfortunately,he had not yet obtained, that would, he anticipated, throw considerable light upon the question to be decided, and the course which the House ought to pursue.Mr. Maberly
 said, there could be no charge made against the Chairman for moving as he had done, he not. having been instructed by the committee to do otherwise than present the Report as it stood, and as it was then laid upon the Table of the House. He thought it rather strange that the minority should now come forward and seek to interrupt the regular course of proceeding in the House, for the purpose of defeating the majority. The matter in dispute, the nature of the Report to be made, for or against corruption, had been regularly debated and decided, and the committee did not report that the borough was corrupt.Mr. Maberly
1124 said, that he felt it was fitting he should give some answer to the question which had been put to him by his hon. friend. No man could be more disposed than he was, to promote the great objects of conciliation. If the noble
1124Mr. Maberly
 seconded the Motion. He was satisfied, that some measure of this kind was absolutely necessary for the protection of the workmen, though he did not think it necessary, after the able statement of his hon. friend, to follow that up by any remarks of his own.Mr. Wilson Patten
1174l117311721171117011691168d.d.d.,d. commenced by observing, that he agreed with those who conceived, that great ills had arisen from the application of partial remedies and inefficient legislative enactments. He deprecated the measure about to be introduced, because it partook of that character. The House was, in fact, again about to legislate without referring to the real circumstance, in which the evil to be remedied originated, and without adequate knowledge of the causes of the calamities, against the recurrence of which it was sought to provide. It was with pain he addressed the House on the subject, but he was satisfied, after considering all the statements, distressing as they were of his hon. friend the member for Staffordshire, and great as he admitted the evils thus described to be, that the proposed measure was not a proper remedy. If the hon. member for Staffordshire (Mr. Littleton) should be able to suppress the truck-system by his Bill— an object which he did not think the Bill would accomplish—the effect would only be, to involve those whom he wished to serve in greater calamities than those they suffered under the system he desired to abrogate. The hon. Member had referred to numerous details, showing the degree in which workmen, paid their wages by truck, suffered from the operation of that system. The House could not be better occupied than in examining into details, however minute, which explained the condition of large bodies of the people, at a time like the present; and particularly when the House was about to legislate with a view of providing a remedy for urgent and severe distress. It appeared from the details thus brought before the House, that the labourer in many instances only received a nominal reward. That he took in payment for his labour an article for 81174l117311721171117011691168d.d.d.,d.Mr. Attwood
115811571156s.,l115511541153 said, that it was his intention to have given a silent vote in favour of the motion of the hon. member for Staffordshire; but after having heard what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, he thought it his duty to trouble the House with a few observations., in reply to that hon. Gentleman; and his apology for so doing would be, that circumstances had rendered him in some measure acquainted with the evils of which the hon. Member professed himself ignorant. It was somewhat strange that the hon. Member should appeal to Glasgow, where, he acknowledged, the system was not in existence, confessing himself wholly ignorant of its effect where it was in full operation, and still doubt or deny all that had been asserted by those who had long witnessed and deplored the evil, and the representations of scores of thousands of petitioners who were its victims, and who were earnestly imploring the House for redress. The hon. Member had talked of proceeding to Bolton; he wished he would take that course. In the mean time, his ignorance of the nature and extent of the evil was no substantial reason why those who were well acquainted with it, who knew how much misery it inflicted, how wide it had already extended, and that the
115811571156s.,l115511541153Mr. Sadler
d.,s.s.1166 said, he meant to support the bill of the hon. member for Staffordshire; but in no stage of it would he consent to a Committee of Inquiry. The bill was, perhaps, opposed to the rigid rules of political economy. The rules of that science had reference to the production of wealth in a nation, but he must inquire what effect the application of them, in a given case, was likely to have on the
d.,s.s.1166Sir R. Peel
 also supported the petition, and observed, that the people had not derived any benefit from the last reduction of the tax on coals, in consequence of their first delaying their orders, and then making a run on the coal-market.Mr. Ward
 said, that the proof that was brought before him had Mr. Lewis's corrections preceding and succeeding the paragraphs in question; and it was represented to him that those corrections were in the hand-writing of the Chairman of the Committee.The Speaker
1123 said, the question ought properly to be confined to the printing of the evidence. The noble Lord might, if he so thought fit, move for a Supersedeas, or move for the suspension of the operation of the Writ, or he might give notice, and make a motion to that effect on Thursday, when the evidence would be printed, and in the hands of Members. It would be just as easy for him then to move the
1123The Speaker
1121, before putting the question on the Motion, observed, that on no occasion since the passing of the Grenville Act had the House taken on itself to stop the issue of a Writ, when a Member was unseated by the decision of an Election Committee, unless the committee had reported its opinion as to the state of the borough. No such report had been made in the present case, and it had always been a matter of course and duty, the House being acquainted with a vacancy in the Representation from the constitutional and statutable authorities, which alone had
1121The Speaker
 said, that the hon. Gentlemen had better consult and arrange between themselves the time when the petition should be brought forward, there being then Members to be sworn.The Speaker
 observed, that, in justice to the clerk, he was bound to say, that the proofs of the Report were sent to the Chairman—that he made some corrections —that the omission of the sentence in question was not among those corrections —and that the Report was circulated as it came from the hands of the Chairman.The Speaker
1159 said, that he felt it his duty, regardless of the misrepresentation to which he might subject himself, to state his opinion upon this important topic. He had not heard any one contend that it was better that the labourer should be paid in goods than in money. If they were called upon at once to decide whether the labourer should be paid in goods, or in money, there could be no difference of opinion. But that was not the question before the House. Two propositions had been submitted to it. The one for leave to bring in a Bill at once to abolish the evil complained of: the other for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire and report their opinion on the circumstances of the case. Such being the alternative; the latter proposition was decidedly that which should receive his support. He believed the truck-system was very prejudicial to the labourers and to the retail dealers throughout the country. Last year he was not aware that it existed in the city which he had the honour to represent. He had since found that it did so exist, and that there was a strong feeling against it; and he had been emphatically called upon by his constituents to assist in its abolition. Under these circumstances, he rose, not to oppose the Bill moved for by the hon. member for Staffordshire, but merely to call the attention of the House to the calm and dispassionate consideration of which of the two propositions before them was entitled to the preference. Let not the House deceive itself by supposing, that to put an end to the truck-system would be to put an end to the existing evils in the country. The truck-system was rather the effect than the cause of those evils. Those evils, as the hon. member for Middlesex had justly observed, arose out of a complication of causes. If he thought that the Bill moved for by the hon. member for Staffordshire would immediately produce the effect of paying the labouring classes in money, and thereby producing a better position of things, no man would more cordially and willingly support the measure. Indeed, he did not by any means now oppose the bringing in of the Bill. If the House determined to allow the hon. Member to bring it in, he (Mr. Robinson) would not only not oppose its progress, but would
1159Mr. George Robinson
 said, that sooner or later they must come to a Property-tax, and the sooner the better, in order that the public might be relieved from the pressure of taxes, affecting industry. Every possible retrenchment ought first to be made, and every unequal and injurious tax removed, and then a tax ought to be laid on to reach all property, including that of minors, misers, and absentees, and be easy and cheap in the collection.Sir R. Wilson
1165 said, he was undoubtedly at first more inclined to support the Amendment than the bill. But, having heard the Gentlemen who came forward, and described the state of the country, their observations had materially altered his opinion, and he could not help viewing the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex as one of an extremely doubtful character. They were now placed in this situation, that they must either repeal all the laws relating to the truck-system, or they must, render them perfectly efficient. Such was the alternative presented to them, and it was for the House to decide as to which course was the more eligible. A good deal had been said as to the character of the bill that was intended to be brought in, by Gentlemen who were not acquainted with its provisions. He, however, had seen the bill, which they had not, and therefore he could speak of it with confidence. Those Gentlemen appeared to be arguing with reference to a bill which was formerly before Parliament, whereas, the present bill, though its object was the same, proposed to obtain that object by different means. In one point, this bill possessed a very great advantage over the bill of last year. This bill provided for the repeal of all the former Acts; and all the regulations with respect to the payment of wages in truck, contained in it, were clearly and specifically expressed. Some provisions of a harsh nature with respect to that point, which were in the measure of last year, were excluded from this. Therefore the arguments used were not, in fact, applicable to the bill then before the House. The question now under discussion was, whether, before Gentlemen saw this measure, they would insist on having an inquiry, and afterwards decide whether the bill should be adopted under all the circumstances which might be brought to light. He confessed that he disapproved
1165Lord Althorp
 presented a Petition from West-India merchants and others, praying for compensation if Slavery be abolished, and praying for inquiry into the condition of the slaves. The hon. Member said, he heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition, and expressed a hope, that whatever might be done, due regard would be had to the interests of the West-India proprietors. He was convinced that to produce favourable results the abolition of slavery must be gradual.Mr. Ewart
 took the opportunity of asking, as it had been stated that the Jews were outcasts in the land, if a Jew, whose father, grandfather, and great grandfather were born in Monmouth-street, would be considered as a native of this country, and if he were taken with arms in his hands, fighting against this country in the service of a foreign State, would he be punished as a native-born subject? Would his plea that he was a Syrian be admitted? If it would not, then it was hard to deprive the Jew of civil rights, and extremely hard to recognize his birth only to make it a pretext for punishment. He would certainly support the motion of the right hon. Gentleman.Colonel Cradock
 would not answer the question; but when the subject came before the House he would discuss it.Sir R. Inglis
 would be prepared to explain the situation of these people, naturalized in this country, when the question was discussed.Mr. R. Grant
 would watch the Oath of Abjuration bill, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman.General Gascoyne
 had given no opinion as to the legal construction of the Oath of Abjuration Repeal bill.Mr. R. Grant
 having presented a Petition from Cardiff, for a Reduction of Taxation,Lord James Stuart
in commendam took the opportunity to ask the noble Lord (Althorp) whether the Ministers had made up their minds with respect to the annexing of the Living of Stanhope, to be held in commendamMr. Phillpotts
11901189 thought it was necessary to preface the Motion with which he meant to conclude, by some few explanatory remarks. He wished to have a return of the number and names of the Magistrates of Ireland, distinguishing those acting by a
11901189O'Gorman Mahon
1191 was sure that the Magistrates were so conscious of the unfounded nature of the hon. Gentleman's charges, that they would, if they knew them be the first to move for those returns. When imputations were cast upon the Magistrates generally of Ireland, he felt bound to say, that those of the county which he had the honour to represent, had set an example in putting down the disturbances which, now that disturbances prevailed here, it would be well if the Magistrates of England followed. They risked life and fortune in support of the laws, and their courage and firmness had had their reward; and he, as well as
1191Colonel O'Grady
1192 did not know a more honourable body of men —men more attached to the laws, or more humane in
1192Mr. Maxwell
 did not see any great benefit that would result from having the returns, and if his hon. friend pressed his Motion to a division he should vote against it. The Clerk of the Peace was not obliged to know the profession or calling of persons in the commission of the peace; and, therefore might not be able to make the return required.Mr. Jephson
 said, for his part, he had no objection to the Motion, nor had he heard any argument against granting the returns. If persons had been placed among the Magistracy of Ireland, who ought not to have been there, this return would merely show whether that were the case or not. He did not know how the officer could be directed to make these returns, but there might be some means of getting at the information required. Neither did he know how the Lord Chancellor, before a man was appointed to the commission of the peace, should inquire into all the circumstances of his life, for this would be both invidious and painful. He thought the returns of importance, and hoped they would be granted without opposition.Sir Francis Burdett
1193 said, that when returns were moved for, it was customary to state what parliamentary object the Member moving for them had in view. He saw no objection to granting these returns; but he wished to ask the hon. Member, what he intended to do with them. He felt, that if he were a Magistrate of Ireland, he should be entitled to know what the motive of the hon. Member was. He should be glad to know whether the hon. Member intended to attach blame to any quarter, or whether he thought that some benefit might be derived from having the names of the Irish Magistrates on the Table, to undergo the revision of the House. He was not aware, however, that the House would have any right to interfere, except in a case of gross impropriety of conduct in the discharge of the magiste-
1193Mr. Calcraft
1194 thought, the hon. gentleman had put a most extraordinary question to his hon. friend. He had asked him what he intended to do with these returns, supposing them to be granted? and what object he had in view? How could his hon. friend answer that question until the papers were granted? It had been stated, that improper persons were among the Magistracy of Ireland. His hon. friend wished to find whether that was the case or not. There was nothing of more importance to Ireland than its Magistracy, and he was sure that this motion was not brought forward with a view of throwing on that class the least obloquy. Nobody supposed that the late or the present Chancellor had appointed improper persons to the commission of the peace. He was satisfied that Sir Anthony Hart, who was an excellent Lord Chancellor, would never have sanctioned an improper appointment; for the late Chancellor, fortunately for Ireland, was not a political character. No man could entertain a higher opinion of Lord Plunkett than he did, and he hoped that the noble Lord would not suffer the politics of Ireland to enter into his conduct with regard to the Magistracy of Ireland. He had a most important and difficult duty imposed upon him, though there was no doubt that he would perform it to the satisfaction of the country. He was a man of pre-eminent abilities, and of unimpeachable integrity; but there was some degree of alarm, that he might not be able entirely to get rid of feelings which influenced, in a slight degree, the conduct of the most honest men, but which would be attended with most mischievous consequences to Ireland, if they were suffered to give a colour to the conduct of Lord Chancellor Plunkett. For himself he must say, that he had no personal feeling to gratify; he knew the Magistracy of Ireland well; he was acquainted with them, having been long a Magistrate himself, and no man could speak more highly of a body of men than he was ready to speak of the Irish Magistracy. In his part of the country they had acted with the greatest advantage, both to themselves and the neighbourhood, and he did not hesitate to say, that the country owed a debt to the Magistracy of Ireland for
1194Mr. Ruthven
1195 did not mean to say, that a Member was bound to state, on every occasion, the object which he had in view when he moved for returns? Although this was what was called an Irish question, he did not make any apology to the hon. Member for taking part in it, because he considered every question connected with Ireland of the same importance as a matter purely English. He knew no distinction or at least none ought to exist,
1195Mr. Calcraft
 thought, that the returns moved for would be almost useless, unless the hon. Member had some great object in view regarding the public convenience. It would be a cruel thing to drag gentlemen before the House without such an object. It could serve no useful purpose to have the record of any man's misfortunes laid on the Table. It would be infinitely better, therefore, for the hon. Member to limit his Motion.Mr. Hudson Gurney
O'Gorman Mahon had not the honour of being an Irishman, but he trusted that he might offer a few words on the present question. The Motion of the hon. Member was not only applicable to all Magistrates really in the commission of the peace, but would include all Municipal Magistrates, or those who had to discharge the duties of that office in any town or city of Ireland. The hon. Member must be aware that the Chancellor had no control over this latter class of Magistrates. The return, then, would be highly objectionable, as it would state, perhaps to the ruin of many of those city Magistrates, that at one time of their lives they had been bankrupts. [O'Gorman MahonMr. John Campbell
1196 said, that the hon. Member, in endeavouring to discover extraordinary grievances, had moved for extraordinary returns. It was impossible for him to discover what object the hon. Member could have in view in endeavouring to obtain these returns; but they would expose to the world the private affairs of the Magistracy, which would not even be creditable to the Inquisition in Spain, still less to a British House of Commons. He certainly should oppose the Motion, as it was highly improper. What a situation would the House place
1196Sir Charles Wetherell
 said, that the hon. Member had asked him, before he proposed his Motion for the returns, whether there would be any objection to it; and he answered, that he was not aware of any; but he must add, that tins Motion differed from what he (Lord Althorp) expected it would be. It would not be desirable to drag the name of every Magistrate before the House who had been a bankrupt; and the hon. Member, he was sure, would not desire to attach a reproach to a man because he had been in pecuniary difficulties. Any information with respect to the Magistrates of Ireland, he should be happy to afford, but he did not think that these returns would be desirable. There was a great objection to making inquiries into the pecuniary circumstances of the Magistracy. The feeling of the House was decidedly hostile to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, and he therefore suggested to him the propriety of withdrawing it.Lord Althorp
1200lsupersedeas1199ss.11981197 would acquiesce, readily in the recommendation of the noble Lord; but he could not see any objection to making the returns. He was surprised at the language which had been used, and
1200lsupersedeas1199ss.11981197O'Gorman Mahon
1201 wished to say one or two words, in respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member. He could assure him that he never thought of charging him with having been actuated by an improper motive. He was, however, mistaken in one or two points, especially upon the subject of the Limerick Magistrates. He felt it his duty to state, that he knew no case—bearing out the assertions of the hon. Member; if he had, he should have
1201Colonel O'Grady
1184 also supported the prayer of the petition, and expressed a doubt whether the people would be will-
1184General Gascoyne
lllll took occasion to allude to the observations made by the hon. member for Ayr (Mr. Kennedy,) when he thought fit the other evening, to allude to the offices held by him (Mr. Dundas) in Scotland. The hon. Member had then stated the income of those offices at a sum of 7,000lllllMr. William Dundas
1187l said, he had endeavoured to fulfil a public duty with as great a degree of courtesy to the right hon. Gentleman as circumstances would allow, and he had certainly not trusted so much to hearsay information as the right hon. Gentleman supposed. He had made diligent inquiries on the subject, and he begged it to be distinctly understood, that his object was not to bring any odium on the right hon. Gentleman, but to enable the Government to correct the errors which were visible in an important parliamentary paper, and to guard against their recurrence. At the same time, however, he must say, that supposing the right hon. Gentleman's statement respecting the income of 5,0001187lMr. Kennedy
ll recommended a revision of all the pensions and sinecures drawn from the resources of the country; and although he felt that no man would be willing to touch the pension of a Nelson, or the Conqueror of Waterloo, yet as the 5,000llSir G. Warrender
1185llll rose to move "that an humble Address be presented for a copy of the grant of a pension on the Irish Civil List, to Charles Hooper and P. Martin, and their representatives, specifying the term for which it was granted, and the conditions, if any, thereunto annexed, as also the names of the persons to whom it is now payable." The circumstances connected with this pension, were these:—It was granted so far back as the year 1756, for what he knew not; but it was granted, with this condition, that it should be continued annually until the sum of 2,0001185llllSir John Newport
 said, that he would cordially second the gallant General.Mr. A. Trevor
 trusted, that the hon. member for Westminster would persevere in the motion of which he had given notice. It was absurd to talk of parliamentary reform so long as parish authorities could tax the people without their consent.Mr. Alderman Wood
ds.ds.s.1208 stated, that the abolition of the select vestry in the parish of Shore-ditch was attended with a reduction in the
ds.ds.s.1208Mr. Wilks
 informed the House, that the select vestry of the Parish of St. Marylebone, much to their credit, stated, that they would not offer any opposition to their dissolution; and he would add, that nothing but a confident expectation that the system would be abolished, could keep the people of that parish in their present state of quiet and submission to the existing rates.Mr. Hume
 said, that select vestries were one of the greatest practical grievances of the present day, constituting not only a gross violation of every constitutional principle, but of every principle of common sense. There was something in them so preposterous, that an English House of Commons was called upon to get rid of them at once, and the mode of doing so was perfectly simple: it was by a recurrence to the ancient constitutional principle, that no man was to be taxed without his own consent.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he had to thank the hon. Member for his courtesy in sending him a note, intimating his intention of putting the question which the House had just then heard; but since the receipt of that note, he had not had time to read the publication referred to.The Attorney General
lll1214 presented a Petition from Southampton, complaining of general Distress, and praying for Reform and Retrenchment. The hon. Gentleman stated, that the petition had been confided to him, because the electors of Southampton
lll1214Mr. Hume
1216 said, that the hon. Member could not have paid him a higher compliment than calling him the redresser of wrongs. It was to redress the wrongs of the people that he came to that House, and he could assure the hon. Member that none of those who laughed at his joke were more pleased with it than he was. As to the respectability of the petition, he should leave the hon. Gentleman to settle that question with his constituents. This he knew, that it was signed by the Mayor, and delivered to him by the Mayor's brother. With respect to his courting popularity, he knew that no instance could be cited in support of such a position, and he would give the hon. Gentleman, and the right hon. member for Armagh, who had so heartily cheered him, a week to think of an instance. That the right hon. Gentleman should have cheered the attack that had been made upon him did not surprise him; for he had ever shown himself the patron of every abuse that had been brought forward, and the perpetual and
1216Mr. Hume
 said, a petition had been presented against this election on the 15th of November, purporting to be signed by certain freemen of the borough. He now held in his hand a petition from the same place, in which it was stated, that eighteen of thirty names subscribed to the former petition were forgeries, being neither signed by the parties, nor by any one authorized to attach their signatures to the document. One name attached to the petition was alleged to be altogether fictitious. The House would see, that this was a matter touching its privileges, and the right of the subject to petition, very nearly; and he should, therefore, give notice, that he would to-morrow move that this Petition be referred to a Select Committee. In adopting this course he was actuated solely by public considerations, being entirely unconnected with the politics of the place.Sir R. Inglis
ll1207 presented a Petition which, he had to state, was most numerously and respectably signed—it was from the Freeholders of the parish of St. James, in the city of Westminster. It complained of a great grievance—it complained of the deprivation of an important national right—the loss of which had occasioned much and serious discontent throughout many parishes of the metropolis, and in various parts of the country. The grievance of which the petitioners complained was, the existence in their parish of a self-elected
ll1207Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that when this charge had been brought against his hon. friend, he thought that he (Mr. Warburton) had given a full confutation of it; for he had stated, from his own certain knowledge, that his hon. friend had entertained doubts on the subject many weeks before that vote was recorded, and long before he had any idea of becoming a candidate for Middlesex.Mr. Warburton
supersedeas in rising to make a Motion on this subject, said, that the Committee appointed by the House had unseated the Members that were returned, on the ground of bribery; arid with this charge before the House, he certainly thought that they were bound to consider whether a new election should be allowed to take place. The evidence before the committee had not yet been printed; but, at all events, it was known that that committee had decided against the two Members on the ground of corruption; and this, he contended, was enough to call for the interference of the House, when it was proposed to intrust the borough again with the right of returning Members. All that he at present asked was, that a short time should be allowed for the printing of the evidence, in order that the House might judge for itself; and he should therefore move, that the Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, to make out a supersedeasThe Marquis of Chandos,
 considered, that as the committee had not reported the whole borough as guilty of bribery, a case could not be made out for disfranchising it. If the question were, whether the franchise should be transferred from a small to a large town, he knew how he should vote, but the case was different. There were 426 voters for the borough, of whom only 141 were resident; 235 were living at a distance of twenty miles from the borough, a great many of whom were very respectable persons; only twenty-two were proved to have been bribed. In moving the writ, he did what he conceived was his duty, and hoped he had not acted irregularly. It was not regular, he believed, to allude to the manner in which individuals had voted in the committee, and therefore he would not say on what occasion he had given the casting vote to which an allusion had formerly been made. He did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion before the House, but he did not think that a case could be made out for the disfranchisement of this borough.Mr. Bolton Clive
12231222 meant, in the few words he should address to the House, to confine himself to the narrowest limits. He should not enter into the general question of Reform, nor assert that it would be improper to assent to the Motion, because the House had already ordered the writ to issue. There were many rights to be considered before the House resolved to suspend the writ. An inquiry should be instituted, and evidence
12231222Lord John Russell
 supported the motion for superseding the writ. He had resided long in the neighbourhood of Evesham, and there could be no doubt that gross corruption had been very general in the borough.Mr. Martin
 said, that he could see no advantages they were likely to receive from suspending the issue of the writ, and he should certainly vote against the Motion. In a case of much the same kind —that of Stockbridge— he found opinions stated on the subject by a celebrated Member of the House of that day, Sir Phillip Francis, which so perfectly coincided with his own, and were, withal, so perfectly applicable to the case, that he should take leave, as they were very short, to read them to the House. "If," said that hon. Member, "I saw the candidate pay the money down on that table, and the electors take it up, yet I would not vote for the disfranchisement of the borough; for I ask you, how you can take the franchise away from one or two places, when you refuse every proposition for a general reform?" And he adds, that it is better the abuse should become so glaring that the House would be compelled to put an end to it. This was the language held thirty years ago on this subject, and he thought it still worthy of adoption as a principle. On these grounds he should vote against the Motion.Mr. Warburton
1231 said, he thought the opinions embraced by the hon. member for Bridport so extraordinary, that they did not require much observation on his part. He would merely say, that if generally adopted, they would go to the extension and encouragement of every conceivable abuse in the system of representation. The noble Lords opposite had stated their opinions with great candour, and he concluded that they regarded the precedents as sufficient to justify the course proposed by the Motion. In his opinion, the arguments relating to the course to be pursued with respect to the borough of Evesham
1231Mr. Bankes
 said, that before the House came to a decision on this question he wished to ask the hon. member for Blechingly (Mr. Tennyson) on what grounds he considered his (the Marquis of Chandos) conduct liable to suspicion? The House would do him the justice to recollect, that he had, on every occasion, endeavoured to preserve consistency in the course of politics which his judgment induced him to adopt; and he had at all times laboured to preserve it free from the suspicion of insincerity. He thought he was also entitled to some explanation from the hon. member for Staffordshire (Mr. Littleton), with respect to the charge of a new-born zeal in the cause of Reform. He (Lord Chandos) had always advocated the course which, to his mind, seemed the best, and he should be glad to know how long the hon. Member had himself exhibited a zeal for ReformThe Marquis of Chandos
 might perhaps feel, with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that it was a little extraordinary that a measure, introduced by a Gentleman who was a commissioner to inquire into the laws regulating real property, and who was at the same time a Member of that House, should not have received the concurrence of his Majesty's Government; but still, whether it had that advantage or not, it should most unquestionably have his best support. There was, however, no wonder that the plan should have wanted the approbation of Lord Eldon, for it was a plan of reform, and that noble Lord was no reformer, as was clearly proved by the fact, that he had presided for twenty-five years in the Court of Chancery, and yet, though the abuses of that Court had been so manifest that no man now ventured to defend them, that noble Lord had not once in the whole course of his judicial career, proposed a single reform, but seemed to have found the whole of the law of that Court to be the perfection of human reason. The measure now proposed fully deserved the support of every man in that House.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, that whether the hon. and learned Member who introduced this measure did it as a commissioner, with the authority of the Government, or as an individual Member of that House, he was equally entitled to credit for his exertions, and for the learning and ability he had so usefully directed to this subject. The measure was one of very necessary reform, and he would give it his cordial support. Having heard much praise of the Register system of Scotland, he wished to see that system introduced here. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not be led away by the opposition of the hon. and learned member for Boroughbridge, nor by his fearful pictures of a metropolitan mausoleum of deeds. In spite of what had been said on a former occasion, he (Mr. Hume) wished to have law so intelligible that everybody could understand it—he amongst the rest. The lawyers might wish it otherwise, but the statement of theirs, that law was and must remain a science, amounted to this—that the people could not and should not do without them. Now he wished to do without them altogether, and therefore he should support the measure of a General Register.Mr. Hume
 said, that the expressions employed by an hon. Member with respect to Lord Eldon were probably not intended to apply to that noble Lord alone, but to the other members of the profession, for lawyers were not generally considered a reforming tribe. But that very circumstance gave additional value to this measure, proposed as it was by a lawyer of great eminence, and having the support of many of the most learned members of the profession. He should be surprised if, on the fullest discussion of the subject, the opinions of the best educated men, lawyers or not lawyers, were not found to be in its favour. It was no objection to the measure that it had not obtained the declared support of the Government, for it did not require authority, founded as it was upon sound good sense, and upon the necessity of the case. The measure, however, if authority were wanted, had the authority of the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced it, himself a very learned lawyer, of the former and present Lord Chancellor, and certainly of a majority of the present Government. That fact ought to relieve the lawyers from the imputations that had been cast upon them. Suppose the necessary calls on the attention of the Government at the present moment had prevented them from considering it so that they could not give it their declared support, still the House were obliged to the hon. and learned Member for bringing it forward, and he was certain the Government would do nothing to stifle the measure, even if they did not support it; but he hoped it would be found they could give it their full and cordial support.The Attorney General
128912881287 in seconding the Motion for adjournment, said, that though his hon. and learned friend had, in some respects, censured the conduct of the present Lord Chancellor, he had not advised his noble predecessor, though a member
128912881287The Attorney General,
1290 begged to explain to the hon. member for Weymouth (Sir E. B Sugden) that what he had said, and what the hon. Gentleman had overheard, had been addressed privately to a friend that sat next him, and not at all intended to interfere with his speech. His friend had asked him, on what the motion was? To which his reply was, that it was not a motion, it was only a splash. If the hon. member for Weymouth wished to know what a splash meant, he would tell him: he meant a speech on a subject, but no motion on the speech. The hon. and learned Gentleman had been three years in office without ever
1290Mr. Hume
1229 who was a member of the Committee, explained, that the committee had agreed to make a report similar to that made by the East Retford committee. Subsequently, that decision was revised, and the committee were equally divided, when the Chairman gave his casting vote in favour of an ordinary report. There never was a special report resolved on without its leading to a suspension of the writ. He hoped that the House would see the evidence, and not give its sanction to Members being again returned by a place which had been guilty of such corrupt practices. The electors were as corrupt as the elected, and ought to be punished. He did not know why the hon. member for Blechingly should be so ready to attribute improper motives to other hon. Members, unless it was that the hon. Member had been much disappointed, because he was not the sitting Member for Birmingham. He was fully as independent and as upright as the hon. Member, and had no motives of which he
1229Mr. A. Duncombe,
 thought many of the inhabitants of the metropolis favourable to Mr. Sturges Bourne's bill.Mr. Cressett Pelham
1218 seconded the Motion, and called the attention of the House to a paper signed Edward Protheroe, jun., in which that gentleman made the following statement:—"I plainly acknowledge my desire to renew our connection. There is no inconsistency in this. With you, gentlemen, I never had the slightest cause of dissatisfaction: it was with the
1218Lord George Lennox
 said, that it was one thing to deal with the question what should be done with respect to a report relating chiefly to the sitting Members, and another as to what should be done with the borough. He would take the liberty of citing some precedents, which he considered would justify the House in adopting the Motion which had been introduced. The first case was that of the borough of Barnstaple. In that borough there were 460 voters; five individuals of whom received bribes, and the House thought proper to investigate that case. In the case of Penryn, eight individuals were reported to have received bribes, and the House proceeded to examine into that. But the hon. Gentleman had stated, that in no instance had the House investigated a case unless the committee had reported against a borough, and recommended the House to inquire as to the manner in which the elections had been conducted in it. The case of Penryn, in 1819, was very similar to the one now brought before the House. The committee reported, that one of the sitting Members had been guilty of bribery; and a similar charge was brought against the Members returned for Evesham, and the report of the committee; therefore, assumed the character of a special report, so far as respected that part of it. In the case of Camelford, the committee reported, that Mr. Stewart had acted in violation of the Bribery Act, and then merely stated, that six individuals had corruptly endeavoured to procure the return of a Member for Camelford. In both these cases, the writs were suspended, and an inquiry instituted, and therefore it did not appear necessary that a report should be presented against the borough of Evesham, in order to afford sufficient grounds for the House to investigate the case. In the instances he had referred to, the House was called on, not only to suspend the writs, but to disfranchise the boroughs. In Evesham there were 426 voters, and of course they did not all vote for the sitting Members; but it had been proved that every one of the non-resident voters who did vote were bribed. Every one of them actually received a bribe. On these grounds he would support the Motion of his noble friend for superseding the writ, which would give the House an opportunity to inquire.Mr. Ross
minima1221 thought no case to justify the Motion had been made out, either by the noble Mover or the hon. Member who spoke last. He put it to the House whether the case, as it stood, could justify suspending the writ. In the other cases referred to, the Chairman of the Committee had been instructed to move for the suspension of the writ; but that had never been done, unless at the instance of a committee. As the hon. Member had observed, that was not the case with the present committee. The House, too, had agreed the other evening to issue the writ; and it would not be very judicious now to suspend its own order. All the persons convicted of taking bribes amounted only to twenty-two out of 426 voters; they were all out-voters, and formed a very small minority. In the case of East Retford, it was proved, that a very large majority of the electors complained of were corrupt. They were proved to be corrupt, not at the last election, immediately before the investigation, but at several former elections, and it was proved that they were a great mass of corruption. The House in that case suspended the writ, and entertained a bill to disfranchise the borough. In the case of East Retford, it was not a single act of bribery and corruption at one election which was proved, but a gross case extending through several elections, and not proved to exist at the last. There was long-continued corruption. Here there was nothing like that. He should object, however, to the Motion, because now there was an Administration formed which had given a distinct and positive pledge to investigate the state of the representation, with a view to amend it. He was disposed to place full confidence in that pledge, and to believe that the Ministers would persevere in that course. If the borough of Evesham required correction and excision, he would leave it to the Ministers to inquire and correct it. When he saw whence the present Motion proceeded, and recollected that the Gentlemen who supported it had last Session supported the motion respecting Bassetlaw, he could not avoid suspecting their motives. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last had always opposed the motion for disfranchising East Retford, and therefore he must have some doubts as to the consistency of his present opinions. If the hon. Member wanted to establish another Bassetlaw, that itself would be with him a reason for objecting
minima1221Mr. Tennyson
 explained, that what he meant respecting the hon. Gentlemen opposite was, that he suspected that it was their intention, of which he could not approve, not to transfer the franchise to a large town.Mr. Tennyson
 felt obliged to the noble Lord for allowing him an opportunity to explain any expression which might have given him cause of offence. He at all times entertained great respect for the noble Lord's conduct, both in the House and elsewhere; and he could assure the noble Lord, that nothing was more foreign to his wishes than to offer him any offence. What he had said was, not that the noble Lord's conduct was suspicious, but that he suspected the objects of those who wished for this delay, as being intended to administer the same remedy to the borough of Evesham as they had already adopted with regard to East Retford, and to make it another Bassetlaw.Mr. Tennyson
1263 hoped, that when the Bill came to be discussed, the House would have the benefit of the presence of every county Member who might prefer having the title-deeds of his estate in his own house, rather than in the recondite mausoleum of parchments which his hon. and learned friend proposed to erect. He trusted that every county Member especially, and that the House at large, would hesitate before they adopted what, he could not but think, was a proposition pregnant with the greatest mischiefs. He would not have risen on the present occasion, however, but for his hon. and learned friend's ambidextrous allusion to Lord Eldon. His hon. and learned friend certainly patted that noble and learned Lord with the one hand, but then he knocked him down with the other. The vocabulary of praise was exhausted on that noble and venerable person in the first instance, but then it was added, that
1263Sir C. Wetherell
 said, the practice always had been, to appoint Solicitors to the situation of Secretaries. When Lord Macclesfield was impeached, every thing that could be was alleged against him; but his appointment of Solicitors as Secretaries was not amongst the charges; and it was, therefore, to be inferred, that there was nothing improper in it. He did not know whether his learned friend meant to introduce a clause in some bill to prohibit the Chancellor from appointing whom he pleased as Secretaries. If he did, he thought that that Chancellor would not be a very spirited man who submitted to be over-ruled by such a clause. The present Lord Chancellor, as his learned friend the Attorney General had said, had done no more than a long series of his predecessors had done.Sir C. Wetherell
1233 said, that as he also had been called on by the noble Lord to explain the meaning of his expressions, he begged to observe, that he did not intend to offend the feelings of the noble Lord, but he might be permitted to say, that during the eighteen years he had held a seat in that House, he had invariably assented to propositions for Reform, and
1233Mr. Littleton
1219 said, that he had always been a friend to the disfranchisement of corrupt boroughs, and in some cases had even taken an active part; he must, however, confess, that in this instance he was far surpassed by the noble Marquis, whose new-born zeal for Parliamentary Reform had induced him to make this motion. He was, however, bound to say, that with respect to the present case, he thought that they would be acting unwisely if they established such a precedent; for the report did not contain an accusation
1219Mr. Littleton
 disclaimed any intention of offering a captious opposition to the proposition of his hon. and learned friend; although he would take a future oportunity of stating in what he differed in opinion from him. He now, however, wished to ask his hon. and learned friend, whether he brought the measure in on his own responsibility, or whether it had been previously submitted to his Majesty's Government?Sir E. B. Sugden
 observed, that the commission which had been appointed to inquire into the laws affecting real property was authorised to investigate, but not to originate any measure themselves. It was the bounden duty of Government to consider whether the measures recommended by the commission ought to be adopted: and if they thought so, to originate them on the responsibility of the Law-officers of the Crown.Sir E. B. Sugden
 said, that whilst he was in power, he had given due notice of this motion.Sir E. Sugden
 in explanation, said, he was no friend of the Lord Chancellor, and did not feel that he was authorised to intrude, in order to tell him what he meant to say in that House. In making the observations which he had addressed to the House, he was merely actuated by his feelings as a public man. He had a duty to perform, and he would perform it; he had a station to uphold, and he would uphold it.Sir E. B. Sugden,
Here some remark made behind him called off the attention of the hon. and learned Member.1285l.l.l.s.l.1284l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l,1283l.l.1282l.1281l.12801.l.l.1.1.l.1279127812771276127512741273127212711270l.l.l.l.1269 in rising to call the attention of the House to the Administration of Justice in the Court of Chancery, reminded it that when he was in office he had given notice to bring forward a measure relative to the imperfect Administration of Justice in that Court. As he had now retired from office, he was no longer the person to introduce that measure, which would fall into the hands perhaps of abler men, but certainly not of men more zealous than he in the discharge of so important a duty. Had he continued in office, he should have possessed the power to introduce a measure, which he verily believed would have been of great benefit to the suitors of the Court of Chancery, for he had had the honour to belong to as virtuous a Government as ever presided over the councils of Great Britain—a Government that he was sure would have put down whatever abuses were clearly shewn to exist, without regard to the interests of friends or foes, He felt that he should have received their full support, and on that support he should have relied had he brought in his Bill. Whenever the present Government should bring forward any measure of a similar kind, he should give it his support. He must say, that the subject of the Court of Chancery had never been fairly met, but had always been used for party and political purposes. It was that circumstance which had hitherto prevented it from being made the subject of Reform; for never could an abuse in any office be mentioned, with a view to correct it, but a proposition was instantly made to do away with the office altogether. That House had thus, in many instances, thrown difficulties in the way of the late Government which would not exist with respect to the present,
Here some remark made behind him called off the attention of the hon. and learned Member.1285l.l.l.s.l.1284l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l,1283l.l.1282l.1281l.12801.l.l.1.1.l.1279127812771276127512741273127212711270l.l.l.l.1269Sir E. B. Sugden,
1232 declared his determination to vote for the proposition of the noble Marquis, and defended himself from any imputation of inconsistency, in consequence of his having acted differently in the case of East Retford, by contending, that the committee had not in that case gone as far as they might have done, or
1232Mr. G. Bankes
 appealed to all who had heard him, whether the first attack had not been on the part of the hon. member for Middlesex? Till that attack had been made, he had taken no part in the debate beyond cheering what had fallen from the hon. member for Southampton: on account of that cheer, the hon. member for Middlesex had thought proper to say that he was the patron of every abuse that was ever brought forward. The hon. Gentleman had challenged him to mention one instance of his inconsistency; and he had therefore stated what had occurred on the Beer bill, of course leaving it open to explanation, if it was susceptible of it.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that as he had been appealed to, he would mention one of the cases where the hon. Gentleman had not always shown himself impelled by that feeling for which he had been so ready to take credit. In citing that instance, he would go no further back than to almost the last transaction of the last Session of Parliament. It was well known that he (Mr. Goulburn) had last Session brought forward a measure for throwing open the trade in beer. On the first discussion of that measure, the hon. Gentleman had concurred in the proposition; but in a subsequent stage of the bill he had recorded his vote against it. It was true, that between the first proposal of the measure, and the period of that vote, the hon. Gentleman had become a candidate for the county of Middlesex; but he would not take on himself to say what influence that circumstance might have had on the transaction.Mr. Goulburn
 thought the precedents were entirely in favour of the Motion, and if it were pressed to a division he should vote for it.Mr. Twiss
1266 defended the branch of the profession to which he had the honour to belong, from the imputation about their
1266Mr. Freshfield
 said, the hon. member for Middlesex had taken to himself personally what, he had intended in a general sense. He could assure the hon. Member that he should willingly bear his testimony to the indefatigable zeal with which he acted in what he conceived to be for the interest of the country.Mr. Hoy
"Procumbit humi Bos."1215 complained of the statement of the hon. Gentleman in saying, that he had lost the confidence of his constituents. The fact was, that the petition which had been presented was one proposed as an Amendment by one lawyer, and seconded by another. When he mentioned the profession of these gentlemen, he did not do it invidiously, but only to show that at all events they were not persons of first-rate consequence in Southampton. It was likewise worthy of notice, that one of these gentlemen had been agent to his opponent at one election, and the other had written to him (Mr. Hoy) requesting to be employed at the late election, with which request, however, he had not complied; besides which, he thought that if the hon. Gentleman would take the trouble to inquire, he would find that the petition was by no means signed by the majority of the electors of Southampton. He also assured the hon. Member, that he
"Procumbit humi Bos."1215Mr. Hoy
1217 said, he rose to answer one of the most unfair attacks he had ever heard made. The right hon. member for Armagh had last Session received the same explanation that his hon. friend (Mr. Warburton) had furnished to the House now. He was able able to state, that the hon. member for Middlesex had made up his mind to vote as he did, before he even thought of becoming a candidate for Middlesex. It was, therefore, a most un-
1217Mr. Maberly
 did not intend to take any part in the debate; but as he was connected with the borough of Evesham, through one of the candidates, he felt bound to say, that he would not have suggested that proceeding if he had been aware of there being any irregularity in the conduct of the electors.Mr. Maberly
 said, he had too much compassion, though he felt none for the hon. Gentlemen who usually sat below him. but who were not now in their places, to detain the House by entering then into the abuses of the Court of Chancery. With the speech which they had just heard, or rather, with the results which it was likely to produce, if there was one man in the country who ought more than another to be gratified with them, that man was himself. Of all the abuses of the. Court of Chancery he had told them, or rather not all, but some—merely a few; but now he had the satisfaction of hearing the hon. and learned Gentleman below him calling upon his Majesty's Government to bring forward the necessary alterations—now for the first time it was admitted on all hands, that alterations were necessary—while it must be full in the recollection of the House, that the late Lord Chancellor, in the course of the last Session, brought in two bills, which he abandoned, and that the hon. and learned Gentleman himself also abandoned his own measures of last year. As to what had been said in reference to the appointments made by the present Lord Chancellor, he had only to observe, that that noble Lord had done nothing but what had been sanctioned by the example of every one of his predecessors; and why should not he, as they had done, surround himself with men of honour and character, in whom he could confide? He was enabled to say this— that Mr. Vizard, the Secretary for Bankruptcy, assured the Lord Chancellor, that he would no longer practise in cases of bankruptcy or lunacy. Once more he would congratulate the House, and he trusted he might in a peculiar degree felicitate himself, that at length the country would, by common consent of all parties, enjoy the benefits of reform. For very obvious reasons, the House must feel the impossibility of his entering into the various matters which the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman presented for consideration, and therefore he thought he should best promote the object which he earnestly pursued, by moving that the debate be adjourned to Monday next.Mr. M. A. Taylor
s.l1212s.l1211s.12101209:—I hold in my hand a Petition from the Parish of Rahoon, in the town of Galway, praying that this honourable House will be graciously pleased to place the Roman Catholic mercantile and trading classes upon an equal footing with the Protestants, in regard to the Elective Franchise, as at present exercised by them in Galway. The grounds on which they pray for this undoubted right, have been already, on several occasions, exposed in so much detail, and listened to with so much sympathy and consideration in this House, that I should be trespassing unwarrantably on its indulgence, by insisting anew upon the arguments. The anomaly stands singly and unaccountably an exception to the provisions of the Relief Bill of 1829; and had it not been marked by the opposition of the late Prime Minister in the upper House, it might be also imagined an exception to the enlightened intentions of its framers. It is time this blot should be wiped off, and his Majesty's present Administration, pledged as they are by former votes, will consult their own consistency and the just claims of the petitioners, by as speedily as possible pro-
s.l1212s.l1211s.12101209Mr. Wyse
 corroborated the statement of the hon. member for Westminster, as to the great and prevailing discontent with select vestries.Mr. Denison
1227122612251224supersedeas admitted, that the noble Lord had placed the question fairly before the House, and had discussed it with that same candour which always distinguished his parliamentary conduct; and he felt confident, from the candour of the noble Lord, that he should convince the noble Lord that a 1227122612251224supersedeasSir R. Peel
 wished to learn, whether the question which the hon. Member intended to put, had anything at all to do with the present Motion, which was, that a certain petition be brought up? However unwilling to intercept any question, the House must feel that the observations of the hon. Member must conclude with a motion, and surely no other motion could, with any regularity, be allowed to interrupt that then before the House.The Speaker
 said, that he had' been a member of the committee, and contended that a gross case had bean made out, which called for the severest censure of the House. The Report of the Committee had turned out the Members on account of corruption. At least, the writ ought to be superseded to enable the House to inquire. He had good reason to believe that corruption was common at Evesham, and the present opportunity should be embraced to bring to a test the opinions of the House on Reform. In common, he believed, with almost all men, (nobody objecting to punish a case of delinquency, not even the most violent opponents of general Reform,) he was disposed to disfranchise every sinning borough, and transfer its privileges to some one of the large unrepresented towns of the country. He could not agree with the hon. Member who spoke last, that this subject ought to be deferred, because the general question of Reform was to be discussed; for they knew neither when the Government would bring forward the subject, nor what measure it would propose.Sir George Staunton
 said, he was always happy to agree with the hon. member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Bankes); but, as an elector of the very borough the rights of which were under discussion, he felt himself called on to say a few words in its defence—in defence of the 141 electors against whom no imputation was laid— and in defence of more than 100 of the out-voters, comprehending a vast proportion of the respectable gentlemen in the neighbourhood, and in the county of Worcester, who, like himself, had taken no part in the late proceedings. He was a friend to reform; but he considered the present case offered no precedent for the suspension of the issue of the writ; because, as it had been already well observed by a noble Lord, in all cases where the report of the committee on the petition declared, that the Members were guilty of bribery, bat found no case to report on with respect to the electors, the writ immediately issued. In the present case it appeared that the committee had not, on the examination of the evidence, felt themselves warranted in declaring the corruption to be so general as to induce them to recommend the disfranchisement of the independent voters, in consequence of the offences of a few; and he trusted that, under such circumstances, the House would not sanction the adoption of a dangerous precedent.Sir G. Warrender
1265 observed, that this
1265Sir James Scarlett
1268l.1267:—As I do not find that there is any opposition to bringing in the Bill, although some hostility is threatened to it in its future stages, I shall have to trouble the House very briefly in reply. I should regret exceedingly if it were thought that I had reflected upon the Solicitors as a body; but I considered it my duty to throw out a caution to some of them, to consider whether, in the steps they are taking to excite a prejudice against the establishment of a General Register, they are not actuated by an exaggerated apprehension, that it will materially interfere with their own gains. And I thought I might, without offence, offer a suggestion (which I am sure, if it could be carried into effect, would be most agreeable to my hon. friend, the member for Penrhyn, who is so eminent in this department of the profession), that another mode should be adopted for remunerating the valuable services of Solicitors employed in conveyancing, whereby they may no longer appear to have an interest against their duty. Considering the unbounded confidence reposed in them on the most important occasions of life, there can be no doubt that it is for the public advantage that their remuneration, by whatever rule it may be determined, should be ample. The only argument as yet brought forward against the measure itself, is the apprehended expense of erecting the building in which the deeds are to be deposited; and I am happy to be able to tranquillize the fears of the hon. member for Boroughbridge upon this subject. We do not mean that the Register Office in London should be one of the wonders of the world, like the tomb raised by Queen Artemesia to her husband Mausolus,—to which my hon. and learned friend has been pleased to compare it,—but should be composed of plain brick, mortar, and iron; and I can tell him, that of these materials a commodious, substantial, fire-proof building, sufficient to contain all the deeds to be executed in England for 100 years to come, may, by estimate, be constructed for the sum of
1268l.1267Mr. John Campbell
 replied, that he had brought in the Bill with the concurrence of the present Lord Chancellor; but not as a measure to which Government was at present pledged. Government was not at present determined whether to support or to oppose the measure. The measure was, in the first instance, brought forward by him as a Member of the House of Commons; but with the full concurrence and approbation of the Lord Chancellor.Mr. Campbell
12621261126012591258" Vigilantibus nondormientibus subveniunt leges."1257l.12561255inter vivos;125412531252125112501249s.l.1248s.12471246prima facie1245 ex concessis,1244" qui prior est termpore potior est jure;" tabula in naufragio."  bonâ fide1243bonâ fidelis pendens1242nisi prius,1.,bona notabilia,1241bona fide1240123912381237bon áfide market overt,123612351234*** spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker,12621261126012591258" Vigilantibus nondormientibus subveniunt leges."1257l.12561255inter vivos;125412531252125112501249s.l.1248s.12471246prima facie1245 ex concessis,1244" qui prior est termpore potior est jure;" tabula in naufragio."  bonâ fide1243bonâ fidelis pendens1242nisi prius,1.,bona notabilia,1241bona fide1240123912381237bon áfide market overt,123612351234***Mr. John Campbell
 deprecated one hon. Gentleman imputing motives to another hon. Gentleman.Sir John Newport
1228 agreed with his noble friend, and the right hon. Gentleman, that this question was to be decided on the narrow ground of precedent; but that precedents were not to be slavishly followed. The House must decide if precedents authorised the suspension of the writ, and it was a matter of some importance that the House should not make a mow precedent without due consideration. He did not think that the precedents quoted by the right hon. Gentleman justified the suspension of the writ. He differed from him, because, in the two precedents he had quoted, both the committees had reported against the electors. In the present case, the report of the committee was confined to censuring the Members. The right hon. Gentleman
1228Lord Althorp
Cobbett's Register.cries of "name." would reduce his question to a few words. He wished to know, if the publication referred to had come under the notice of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney General, and whether he intended to do anything relative to it [Cobbett's Register.cries of "name."Mr. Trevor
 would to-morrow bring the matter under the notice of the House.Mr. Trevor
cries of read, read! name, name.1213 said
cries of read, read! name, name.1213Mr. Trevor
1230 Supersedeas following the course which his duty prescribed to him, could not, with the most sanguine wishes for reform, feel himself warranted in voting for the proposition of the noble Marquis. He had, in the course of the debate on the East Retford bill, shown the view which he took on questions of this nature; but there was this peculiarity in the present, case—that although the committee had reported the Members to be guilty of bribery and corruption, they made no report that the electors were also corrupt and unfit to exercise their rights. The report of the committee, did not inculpate the borough, although it declared the election void from bribery; and therefore he thought that they were not, as in the case of East Retford, called on to exercise that judicial part of their functions, which might have been called into exercise by a different species of report. The resolution of1230 SupersedeasLord Morpeth,
 hoped the hon. Member would not think of pressing his Motion, after what had fallen from the Chair.Mr. Hume
lll supported the prayer of the petitions. The tax upon printed cottons was most unequal and unjust, and it was fast destroying that branch of manufacture. This tax caused the garments of the poor to pay a duty of sixty per cent, while the garments of the rich did not pay a duty of more than five or six per cent. The extent of cotton-printing was at the rate of 300,000 or 400,000 pieces in the year. There were two millions of money in the gross collected from this duty, of which 500,000lllMr. Hume
 also bore testimony to the oppressive nature of this duty. It was extremely expensive to collect, and bore particularly hard upon the poorer classes, and he was anxious to have it repealed.Mr. Greene
 had personal experience of the oppressive nature of this tax, and he had repeatedly brought the subject under the notice of the House, but no attention had been paid to him.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 concurred in the observations which had been made on this subject, and supported the prayer of the petitions.Mr. Dugdale
 said, unfortunately they had little or no capital in Ireland. If the hon. member for Abingdon would introduce his, the people there would feel most happy.Sir R. Bateson
1310 said, the hon. Baronet laboured tinder a strange confusion of ideas, for he had recommended that the two most important subjects, as regarded England and Ireland, namely, the Slave Trade and the Repeal of the Union, should be deferred for less important considerations. It had been truly stated, that the linen trade of Ireland had declined, but that, he thought, was owing to the quantity of absentees. He assured the House that there was no risk in investing capital in Ireland, where it was quite as safe, and indeed safer, than in England. The great evil in that country was want of capital, which, if invested there, would promote industry and prevent agitation. Much had been said by the hon. member for Abingdon about agitation in Ireland, but he must deny that any existed there, if by that term was meant any thing that led to rebellion and insurrection. To be sure, if it was merely meant that people felt warmly when their interests were concerned, there was no occasion to deny that; but in other respects, the whole of Ireland was in a state of the profoundest tranquillity; and he would take upon himself to say, that that tranquillity had emanated from the agitation that had pre-
1310O'Gorman Mahon
 complained of these discussions upon petitions. He had been attending three or four nights running to present a petition, and had always found, from hon. Gentlemen indulging in such long speeches, that before his turn came, the time allotted by the House for the presentation of petitions had elapsed. He must claim the right, on the part of the people, of having their petitions heard, if he sat there all night.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, the cause of the decay of the linen trade in Ireland was the restriction under which it laboured, and for this Irish Members were principally to be blamed; for he recollected when, seven years ago, bounties and such restrictions were taken off the linen trade in Scotland, he and other Members, amongst them the hon. Baronet, the member for the Queen's county, predicted that the Scotch linen trade would flourish, and the Irish trade decay, and such turned out to be the fact. It was to the removal of those restrictions that he attributed the start which the Scotch trade had taken, and he was sure the best way would be, to leave that and all other trades and occupations to themselves.Mr. Hume
 said, that with respect to what had just dropped from the worthy Alderman, he thought that unless some other arrangement was made, the petitions of the people might as well be at once thrown aside. He had attended five days in his place to present a petition, and though he had always been down at the House by twelve or one o'clock in the day, and set his name down immediately, he had no opportunity of so doing. He therefore trusted that the rule for public business to commence at five o'clock, which was now existing, would undergo some modification and restriction.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
1308 rose to present a Petition, and as it was neither on slavery nor on the repeal of the Union, he hoped to obtain the attention of the House. He regretted much at not seeing any of his Majesty's
1308Sir Robert Bateson
 said, he had not the least idea that his name would have been called over at half-past one o'clock in the morning.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 said, he was absent on account of illness; and it would be impossible for hon. Members to avoid indisposition, if they were required to attend till a late hour in the morning.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 had no objection to the postponement, though he was sorry that any delay should take place on so important a question. He could assure the House, however, that the Bill already before it had been fully considered by the Members of the late Government, and that every endeavour had been made to meet the interests of those most concerned in the measure. In the event, therefore, of any new Bill that should be introduced being found objectionable, he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would have the candour to revert to the present one.Mr. Herries
1315 rose to answer the question put to him by the hon. Member, and appealed to the House whether the observations made by his hon. friend, and the reference to the subject under discussion, had been fair and open. The question before the House was, whether or not the bill should be postponed; and on that occasion he would not, nor was it fair to discuss the principles of the measure. He regretted that, having already spoken, he was unable to answer the observations of the hon. Member, who attacked the late Government, which were as capable of being answered as the remarks of his hon. friend. He had never heard statements more susceptible of being answered, he had never heard assertions made, more contrary to truth, nor had he ever heard greater mistakes than had been then made and committed. If he were not prevented by the forms of the House, he would expose
1315Mr. Herries
 deprecated the language used by the hon. Member (Mr. Robinson) as to America, and condemned the bill as contrary to the interest of the United States and our own West-India colonies. It increased the price of commodities in the West-Indies from fifty to 100 per cent, and rendered production there dearer in that proportion. He should always oppose the bill.Mr. Hume
1316 hoped, that when the bill was again brought forward, the ques-
1316Mr. John Stewart
 thought the statements of the forgery ought to be first verified on oath, as had been done in other cases.Mr. Hume
 opposed the Motion, and stated, that the petition complained of was an election petition, complaining of the noble Lord's return, and accusing him of corrupt practices. It was a genuine petition, and not a fraud, as alleged by the hon. Baronet.Sir A. Chichester
 was of opinion, as it touched the privileges of the House, that the Motion should be granted.Sir James Graham
 bore testimony to the character of some of the petitioners, and denied that the statements against them were substantiated.Sir A. Chichester
 moved, that a petition he had presented to the House yesterday evening, from Lord George Hill, stating that some of the names signed to the petition from Carrickfergus, complaining of his return, had been forged, be referred to a Committee. This was an important subject, involving the privileges of the House, which was quite sufficient ground on which to rest his Motion. He might assert the fact which constituted the offence on the authority of the noble Lord the sitting member for Carrickfergus, and he did not suppose, that the House could object to the Motion.Sir R. Inglis
d.s.1323d. wished, that he could think, with the hon. member for Surrey, that the plan he alluded to would be beneficial, because it could be easily applied; but he was convinced, from his own experience, as well as that of others, that the benefits to the poor from such a plan would not answer expectation. Some years ago, he observed some cottages in his parish, not belonging to him, which had no gardens, whilst all his cottages had. He laid out a piece of land, and divided it into gardens for those cottages, letting each garden at the nominal rent of 6d.s.1323d.Sir John Sebright
 observed, that the hon. member for Sussex had said, that the agricultural interest must, should, and would have protection. Had the House ever heard the commercial or manufacturing interest declare that they must, should, and would have protection? Was that proper language for any hon. Member to use? Was not the House to consider every measure calmly and deliberately, with a view to the public good; and was the public good to be sacrificed to the violence of the agriculturists?Mr. Warburton
ll1326l.ld.1325 thought, the hon. Member had entered upon the discussion of questions which must be left to the landlords themselves. He did not pretend to have much experience in these matters, but he knew that if a cottager was not to be a thief, he should have a good-sized garden; for it was too much to expect that he should see his family want; and when once he had broken through the law, there was no saying at what he would stop. Some persons called out down with the rents, and if the House wanted a revolution, be it so, but the country was not in such a condition, that one class of the community could be relieved at the expense of another. He had a petition in his hands, which he should not then present, from a number of the inhabitants of London, at the head of whom was an Alderman, once in this House, complaining of great distress. They state, that their trade and profits are diminished, and that their property is annihilated. He could well believe the statement, for
ll1326l.ld.1325Mr. Alderman Waithman
 rose to Order. He put it to the Speaker whether the motion before the House admitted such a debate.Sir Robert Inglis
13351334s.s.s.s.s.1333 presented two Petitions from the county
13351334s.s.s.s.s.1333Mr. Hume
1336s.s.s.s. was desirous to see every interest of the country in a flourishing condition; and was not anxious to have one interest protected at the expense of another; but, at the same time, he could not subscribe entirely to the opinions of the hon. member for Middlesex. It was not his intention to trespass on the attention of the House. His only object in rising, indeed, was, to point out the complete fallacy of the averages upon which the admission of foreign corn depends. In July last, it appeared that wheat rose to the price of 641336s.s.s.s.Mr. Saville Lumley
 cordially concurred in the desire of the petitioners, that the taxes on malt, hops, soap, candles, and coals, should be removed; but he could not agree with the hon. member for Middlesex, in advocating so warmly a free trade in corn. If the hon. Member considered the effect that a free trade in corn must have on the agriculturists, he would see how impossible it would be for the farmer to meet the heavy payments of rates required from him. The hon. Member contended, that the benefit of the manufacturer would also be the benefit of the agriculturist. He admitted the truth of that as a general principle, but not when applied to the Corn-laws.Colonel Sibthorp
s. could not entertain so favourable an opinion of the condition of the labouring classes in Sussex, as the hon. member for that county. He was convinced that there was not a single agricultural labourer of Sussex who had not, in one period or other of his life, been obliged to have recourse to the parish for relief. This had been proved in evidence before a Committee appointed by the House, and he therefore entreated the gentlemen of Sussex, who, he was sure, were most anxious to better the condition of the poor, gradually to adopt the system now practised in Northumberland, where, instead of having poor-rates at 6s.Mr. Slaney
1337 felt much surprise at the language used by the hon. member for Sussex. He did not expect to have heard the Representative of an English
1337Mr. Owen O'Connor
1331 also deprecated the use of any language in the House calculated to excite the labouring population, and especially the agricultural labouring population, in these times of difficulty; but he had no hesitation in stating, that the construction put upon the words of the hon. member for Sussex was perfectly unwarrantable. The hon. Member, in presenting a petition from his constituents, in the ardour of his feelings for their welfare and best interests, stated to the House that, in his opinion, the landed interest
1331Mr. W. Duncombe
13221321 was satisfied, that the country and the House would receive the opinions just delivered, with the greatest possible respect. This question was one of the greatest and most important which the Government could take into consideration. Of all the questions that concerned the internal welfare of this country, there were none so important as those which the two hon. Members had raised; and of all the branches of those questions, there were none more important than those which they had in part discussed. The hon. member for Sussex spoke of the Corn-laws, and of the importation of foreign corn; the other hon. Member had stated, that spade-husbandry alone could relieve the labouring classes, or at least he meant to make spade-husbandry a primary object. Those questions had
13221321Mr. Long Wellesley
 could not understand why the hon. Member should remonstrate because it had been said, that the agriculturist must, should, and would have protection. He joined with the hon. member for Sussex in that declaration, and thought that he was entitled to the thanks of his constituents for making it. He hoped that the agriculturists might yet be allowed to demand and receive protection.Colonel Sibthorp
 was sure, that the hon. member for Sussex would retract the expression in the sense put upon it by the hon. member for Bridport in the present distracted state of the country, and especially of the agricultural interest, the use of such language might have the most injurious consequences. There was quite enough excitement out of doors already, without having a seeming sanction given to it by Gentlemen in that House.Mr. Tennyson
 declined to answer the question of the hon. Member, and lamented that he should have indulged in such language against America. If that Power had injured us, redress could better be obtained by calm remonstrance than angry expressions.Mr. Poulett Thomson
1312 proposed that the second reading of the Bill on the subject should be postponed until after the recess, on account of the many interests it in-
1312Mr. Poulett Thomson
1305 said, that this was another instance of the cruel manner in which the poor were taxed. He had no doubt that the industrious classes of the community bore at least four-fifths of the gross taxation of the country; and he
1305Mr. D. W. Harvey
l1329l thought the language of the hon. member for Sussex such as he had no reason to be ashamed of, and such as would excite the grateful feelings of his constituents. He went further than the hon. Member, for he said, that the agricultural and manufacturing interests, both must, should, and would have protection, for language of that kind the people had a right to address to their Representatives, and their Representatives to address to the House. He was glad, therefore, that the hon. member for Sussex had spoken in so bold, manly, and firm a tone. With regard to the Corn-laws, he must say, that the averages, which form their distinguishing feature, are most injudicious and inconvenient. The agricultural interest had a right to fair protection, but that would be best afforded by a regular equal duty, not liable to be altered by the machinations of the corn-market. There was no doubt that the alteration in the currency had had a great influence on the present condition of the country, and if means were not taken to enable the industrious classes to pay the taxes, the taxes must be reduced. He agreed in what had been said respecting the necessity of doing away with the great sinecures and extravagant exactions that were made to support them. The Returns of such matters, including pensions, on the Table, were very defective, and the omissions ought to be supplied. When the people saw noblemen putting, as appeared by that list, 15,000l1329lMr. Ruthven
1330llll in continuation. He would attend with deference to the suggestion of any Member of that House, and to the decision of the Chair, with the greatest respect and gratitude. At the same time he must say, as he was not touching upon any thing relating to the Church, or Jewish Emancipation, that he did not expect that the hon. Baronet at least would have held him to be out of order. If it could be said that sinecure places did not affect the distress of the people, he was indeed out of order. He was speaking of the hon. member for Edinburgh, who complained the other night, that rumours were abroad of his receiving 7,0001330llllMr. Ruthven
 observed, that there were few subjects on which so much time was misspent as in deprecating further discussion. When hon. Gentlemen, one after another, deprecated discussion, there was a reasonable ground to be alarmed at the probable length to which it would run. On the presentation of these petitions the House had discussed, at length, the principles of free-trade, the benefits of spade-husbandry, the Poor-laws, and, at length, the abuses of sinecure pensions; while the petition, on which all those questions had been raised, related to the abolition of the duties on malt. He should not have risen, had not the hon. member for Lincoln, and the hon. Member who last spoke, not much in the spirit or feeling of the hon. member for Sussex, got up to reiterate, confirm, and proclaim a phrase that hastily escaped from him, with reference to what he conceived to be the claims of the agriculturist. What the hon. member for Sussex said, unguardedly, they had deliberately proclaimed and enforced. He wished those hon. Gentlemen to consider to what practical, useful end, such language could contribute,—to what could it tend, but to excite the poorer classes? Were there no other interests vested in land besides those of the land-owners? was the occupier of the soil, and was the labourer not to be considered? God forbid that we should ever see the time when the peasantry should be encouraged to say, that they must and would have protection! That sort of language had tended to excite the present disturbances; and he must on all occasions deprecate its use in the strongest manner.Lord Nugent
ls.ls.s.l1324 said, that a system of the sort under discussion, in the course of the last two years, had fallen under his observation, and the result of that experience was favourable. It might, however, be one of those particular cases which the hon. Baronet spoke of, and certainly, in that part of the country the land was very good. Small portions of land had been
ls.ls.s.l1324Lord Nugent
1319l.l,s.s.d.s.1318s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.1317 had several petitions to present from different parishes in Sussex, complaining of the weight of taxation, and of the tithe-sys-
1319l.l,s.s.d.s.1318s.s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.1317Mr. Curteis
1327 on moving that the petition be printed, begged to thank hon. Members who had given him their advice, and par-
1327Mr. Curteis,
 said,—in moving that they he upon the Table, he should not attempt to answer separately all the Gentlemen who had addressed him; but he begged to be understood as not having stated anything with respect to labourers in Sussex, that was not correct. There was no doubt great distress in different parts of the country; and many farmers paid lower wages than those he had stated; so that both the hon. member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Slaney) and he might be correct. With regard to what was said by the hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton), he begged to state, most distinctly, to all present, that he did not think that any one could imagine that he was countenancing anything like an appeal to force, or anything but fair petition and just argument. With reference to the words must, should, and would, his opinion was, that the agricultural interest must be attended to, or the country would be ruined; that it should be attended to, would depend upon the exertions of the representatives of the agriculturists in that House; and that it would be attended to, if the House yielded its attention to a just cause.Mr. Curteis
ls.s.1320 wished to claim the attention of the House for a single minute, what he had to say being in reference to the distress of the labouring classes; and as he thought he could suggest a practical mode for administering relief to them, it was his duty not to hesitate to trespass on the House. He wished to allow labourers to occupy portions of land not exceeding an acre, by which they might be able to raise a subsistence for the maintenance of their own families. He had received visits from farmers, and from persons who had devoted their time to the welfare of the country, and they one and all assured him that in no instance where the experiment had been made, had it been known to fail. For his own part, he had been in the habit of directing considerable attention to the welfare of the poor, and he did not think, that at the present moment there was any other mode whatever by which relief could be afforded to them, and by which the burthens which bore so heavily on the farmer, and consequently on the landlord, could be mitigated. In the county which he had the honour to represent, there existed this extraordinary phenomenon, for such he could not help considering it;— there was a parish with between 4,000 and 5,000 acres of uncultivated land, and applications were daily made to the overseers for work. There were many families quite unemployed, and although all the inhabitants of that parish, with one exception, and that exception an absentee proprietor, concurred in the propriety of enclosing only twenty acres, which would immediately furnish employment to those persons, such was the state of the law, that the parish could not turn that waste land into account. When the pressure of distress was so severely felt by all classes, not merely by the rich, but by those only one degree above the poor themselves, it was strange, that a thing so obvious to common
ls.s.1320Mr. Briscoe
 thought, that the doctrines urged by the hon. Member would be highly injurious to the country. What! did the hon. Gentleman recommend that a duty should be put on cotton; on the very article which was the principal source of employment to the poor in the country? He rather thought that a bounty should be granted for its importation. The hon. Gentleman had said much about the failure of the linen trade in Ireland. The reason of this, in his opinion, was, that Ireland did not apply that skill of which she was capable to the improvement of her manufactories, and, in consequence, her trade in linen had emigrated to Scotland and Yorkshire. He agreed with the hon. Member, that the system of agitation carried on in Ireland tended much to injure that country. No sooner was one subject over than another was started, and the people were kept from applying themselves to procuring permanent employment.Mr. Maberly
1306 was of opinion, that the best way of arriving at a right decision on subjects of this kind was, to call for a
1306Mr. Maberly
 observed, that when the proper time arrived he would show that this tax pressed heavily on the agricultural interest. When a farmer had several daughters, it must of necessity be very onerous to him.Mr. Patten
ll presented petitions, very numerously signed from Manchester and its vicinity, praying for the Repeal of the duty on Printed Cottons. The hon. Member said, that this tax weighed most heavily and most injuriously upon the lower orders, and declared his intention of bringing the subject before the House, by moving that the duty be repealed, immediately after the recess. The duty on printed calicoes amounted to more than 1,000,000llMr. Patten
 said, that after the communication which had been made by Mr. Speaker, he could not think of pressing the Motion.—Motion withdrawnMr. Leader
1301 Hansard's Parliamentary Debates,'1300 Hatsell's Precedents' moved, that the Speaker do issue his warrant for a new Writ for this borough, in the room of Lord Louvain, now Earl of Beverley. The hon. Member said, that the Speaker having inquired, when the subject was mentioned to him yesterday, whether the usual words "now summoned up to the other House of Parliament" were added to the Motion, and having been answered in the negative, that he was pleased then to recommend that reference should be made to precedents, for the purpose of seeing whether such addition to the terms of the Motion was not essential. The first authority to which he had accordingly referred was that contained in '1301 Hansard's Parliamentary Debates,'1300 Hatsell's Precedents'Mr. Leader
1332 thought, that the hon. member for Sussex attached no improper meaning to the words he used; but he would suggest to him, that his best course would be, to explain distinctly to the
1332Mr. Courtenay
1307ex-parte:—I rise to present five Petitions from various parts of the county of Tipperary, praying for a Repeal of the Legislative Union between Great Britain and Ireland. The first from the inhabitants of the united parishes of Kilsheelan and Kilcash; the second from the inhabitants of the parishes of Fethard, and Killusty; the third from the inhabitants of the parish of Temple Michael; the fourth from the parishioners of Ballingarry; and the fifth from the inhabitants of the barony of Eliogarty. The parishioners all ground their several prayers on nearly the same persuasion, of the injuries which have been inflicted by this international treaty: but as I stated on a former night I should abstain from all discussion of the merits or demerits of the question, until it should be brought before the House in a practical and distinct form, I will adhere to this resolution, and not trespass on the time or attention of the House by any 1307ex-parteMr. Wyse
1311 said, it would be well for hon. Gentlemen to bear in mind what really was the rule adopted by the House. The rule was, that he should attend at three o'clock, and that the public business of the day should commence at five o'clock. After the public business was disposed of,
1311The Speaker
 said, that although the hon. Gentleman might be incapacitated by ill health from attending, he could assure the House that it was possible to bear the fatigue, for if any one was compelled to attend, he was.The Speaker
 who informed the hon. Member that, as he did not intend to persevere in his motion, he could not at that time enter into a discussion on it.The Speaker,
1303dicta1302dictadicta said, he was sure that the House would expect, and that the hon. Member would not only pardon him if he addressed them on this subject, but that they would all think that, on such a question, he was called upon to make some observations upon the motion of the hon. Member, and upon the grounds on which the hon. Member had founded his Motion. The Motion was, that a new Writ be issued for a certain borough, in the room of a person who was alleged by the hon. Mover to have ceased to be a Member of this House in consequence of his having, by the death of his father, succeeded to the peerage. Now, it must be quite clear to every hon. Member, that if the person alluded to was not a Peer, his place was not vacant, for no other ground of vacancy had been alleged. Such being the motion of the hon. Member, the hon. Member had said, that he would cite precedents and authorities to show that the House might, in such a case, order a new Writ, without a summons having been issued by the other House to the person situated as the hon. Member had described the member for this borough to be. He had carefully watched the hon. Member during the course of his argument, and the fulfilment of his pledge to produce authorities in support of his Motion. The hon. Member had first produced 1303dicta1302dictadictaThe Speaker
 said, when a petition was on the Table, complaining of distress, it was very difficult to say what hon. Members should not speak of, as occasioning that distress. He could not, therefore, support the hon. Baronet in rising to order.The Speaker
13141313 said, that he had one or two questions to ask, and he would take this opportunity of asking them. From the correspondence between the American Minister and Lord Aberdeen, it appeared, that we had conceded to the United States the principle of a right in those States to a direct intercourse between them and our West-India colonies. Into this most injurious arrangement he would not enter at present, but when the time arrived, he should be able to show irresistibly that to grant such a principle, without equivalent, was most unadvisable. The late President of the Board of Trade had stated, that in so doing the Government had acted on the principles of Mr. Canning and Mr. Huskisson; but he denied that this was the case, and he could positively state, that Mr. Huskisson, shortly before his death, declared, that he never would agree to such an arrangement without an equivalent, and that it was directly contrary to the feelings of Mr. Canning on the subject. He therefore thought that he had a right to complain, for in 1826 Mr. Canning, and afterwards Lord Dudley, had stated that they never would consent to the concession of that principle without some very adequate cause. On the faith of that assertion the merchants of Canada, and our colonies in North America, had embarked their capital on the trade between Canada and the West Indies; but now this very principle was conceded, and their trade would be ruined. He had read the correspondence between Mr. Maclean and the Earl of Aberdeen, and
13141313Mr. George Robinson
 would recommend the hon. Member to withdraw the Motion. He had been one of the majority in the case of Colonel Berkeley; and he should be very cautious how he committed himself in the same way a second time.Sir G. Warrender
 advised his right hon. friend opposite (Mr. Poulett Thomson) not to answer the question of the hon. Member, for it was plainly not the duty of Government to give him any information concerning an existing negotiation, which might materially injure its progress. With respect to the Bill brought in by the right hon. Gentleman the member for Harwich (Mr. Herries), he must say, that it was a direct violation of the Treaty we had concluded with the United States. There could be no doubt that negotiations were going on, for the American Minister would not fulfil his duty if he were not to endeavour to stop the progress of the measure. That negotiation must, however, lead to a new transaction. His right hon. friend could not adopt the principle of the bill proposed by the right hon. member for Harwich. Before that bill could pass, if the Government meant to pass it, he would call for a copy of the correspondence between Mr. Maclean and his Majesty's Government. The principle of the bill brought in by the right hon. member for Harwich, was the old principle of protection for our colonies and prohibition for other people. He for one would earnestly caution the House how it again adopted that now exploded and fallacious doctrine.Sir H. Parnell
 had heard the Speaker call over the names, and he (Sir M. W. Ridley) was the only one out of twenty who answered. It was by the inattention of Members, not the want of opportunity, if they were unable to present their petitions.Sir M. W. Ridley
 knew full well that there were many places in Sussex in which wages were extremely low. He did not say this as a matter of blame to the individuals employing labourers in those parishes, for it was shown before the committee over which he had the honour to be placed, that the lowness of wages arose from there being in some parishes a greater number of labourers than could be employed at an adequate remuneration, and from the poor-laws having being wrested from their original intention, and administered in a manner so different from what they were in the north of England. He hoped that those who had the management of the poor would retrace their steps, for till that were done, it would be impossible that the peasantry could be placed in a comfortable condition.Mr. Sidney
 did not deny that this was a most oppressive tax, but there was also a still more oppressive and unjust tax, which he was of opinion ought, in the first instance, to be repealed—he alluded to the duty on coals. He had no doubt that the tax now under discussion was, like many others, an ill-regulated tax; but the question was, whether it and others could be repealed without any serious defalcation in the revenue. He was of opinion that the coal-duty was a still more oppressive, and far worse tax, and if they were to take away any taxes, they should first commence with one which pressed so very heavily upon the public. If they could not repeal the tax in question along with the coal-tax, consistently with a due attempt to keep up the public revenue of the country, he would certainly be for selecting the coal-tax for repeal; it was a most unjust and oppressive tax, for it bore harder upon the public the further they were removed from the place where the coals were obtained, and thus greatly augmented the difficulty of obtaining a supply of fuel. If there were to be a coal-duty, it ought to be laid on at the mouth of the pit, and thus it would fall equally on all, instead of being, as it was at present, exceedingly partial. There was no tax which should be repealed before the duty on coals. He was of opinion, that one of the evils of the present system of taxation was to be found in the restrictions it imposed on industry, by which employment was limited, both in England and Ireland.Sir John Newport
 postponed it to Thursday.Mr. Trevor
 expressed his readiness to accede to the request of the noble Lord. The hon. Member was about to state the reasons which induced him to bring forward the question, when he was called to order byMr. R. Trevor
 said, it would be with regret that he should see the expressions of the hon. member for Sussex go forth to the public unrefracted, as at the present moment they might produce effects much to be lamented. He did not mean to follow the hon. member for London through all the topics of his speech, but he seemed to consider the principal cause of the distresses of the country was low prices. But he begged to say, in contradiction to that, that it was his firm persuasion, that one of the principal causes of that distress was the high price of the necessaries of life.Mr. Saville Lumley
 had some doubts as to the propriety of the course recommended, but would leave the matter to the decision of the House.Viscount Palmerston
 seeing the hon. Member for Carmarthen in his place (Mr. R. Trevor), rose to request him to postpone the motion of which he had given notice, respecting an alleged libellous publication, because the noble Lord who represented the Government in that House was unavoidably absent on, account of a family misfortune.Lord Palmerston,
1338 said, he understood a petition had been presented from Liverpool, praying- the House to inquire into the acts of bribery alleged to have taken place at the late election there; and he took that opportunity to give notice, that after the holidays, should that petition not be taken into consideration, as he understood it was to be, he should submit a motion to the House, which would afford the hon. candidates, and still more hon. electors, an opportunity of clearing their characters from the imputations which had been extensively circulated with respect to them. On the other hand, should those charges prove well-founded, the House would have
1338The Marquis of Blandford
1352 gladly availed himself of the opportunity afforded him by his hon. friend, to answer the first statement of the petition. He could only say, that the shadow of such an idea as the acceptance of the Chiltern Hundreds had never crossed his mind: it would be the dereliction, not only of individual duty, but of public duty also, since public justice must necessarily suffer, if he, who felt himself completely innocent, basely acquiesced in the charge of guilt. If consciously to do nothing; wrong, to sanction nothing wrong, or to wish it,—if this constituted innocence, then was he most truly and completely innocent. There was one portion of the petition, for a knowledge of which he had been indebted to the courtesy of his hon.
1352Mr. Ewart
 must do his hon. friend the justice to say, that he had communicated his intention to him. He begged leave to repeat, that he never entertained the shadow of an idea of taking the Chiltern Hundreds.Mr. Ewart
1355 trusted, the House would allow him to make a few observations on the subject, which was deeply interesting to his constituents. He coincided most heartily in the prayer of the petition, and in the sentiments expressed in it. Several hon. Gentlemen, when a petition of this description was presented from Liverpool a few nights ago, agreed in the opinion, that a temperate compensation should be made to the West-India proprietors. One learned Member, in particular, argued much in favour of the principle of compensation, which ought to be fairly treated. He did not mean to say, that all the expectations of the West Indies were to be realised; but the principle of compensation should be admitted in justice to the West-India proprietors. Representing the city of Bristol, whose inhabitants were deeply interested in this question, he thought it his duty to give his most cordial support to the hon. and learned member for Weymouth, and every other hon. Member who should assis' in carrying into effect what he believed to be the wish of the people of this country generally, and the expressed wish of the House-—the abolition of negro slavery. The principle of compensation being once fairly admitted, he should, as a West-India proprietor, and as a member for Bristol, be most happy to give his cordial support to every measure that could promote the emancipation of the slaves, and further the wishes of the people. And in case that the period at which the abolition of slavery might
1355Mr. E. Baillie
 wished to make a very few observations on what had fallen from hon. Gentlemen on this subject. When the House was told, that this question must stand, not on justice, but expediency, he must say that he could not subscribe to such a doctrine. The House was told, too, that, the slaves should be better educated, in order that they might be the fitter prepared for emancipation. But he would ask the House to consult any authority, to read the public papers, and then hon. Members would be convinced that there was no disposition in the masters to prepare for the abolition of slavery, by educating their slaves. He, therefore, was not disposed, looking" to what had been already done in the West Indies, to place much confidence in the planters; and if the: Government did not take some steps to promote the amelioration of the condition of slaves, it would lose the confidence which he, in common with the great mass of the community, was disposed to place in his Majesty's Ministers.Mr. Evans
1356 presented a Petition from the parish of Cloudegad, in the county of Clare, with reference to tithes and church-rates. These rates were considered to be one of the principal causes of the disturbances in England—and innumerable petitions were presented from its various districts, complaining of them. The English petitions were all from Protestants; and he certainly thought, that petitions complaining of the exaction of church-rates and tithes, for the support of Protestant churches and parsons, coming from the Catholics of Ireland, should meet with attention. The petitioners stated, that in their parish there was no Protestant church, no Protestant clergyman, and no Protestant
1356O'Gorman Mahon
 reminded the hon. Member that tithes were paid exclusively by the land, and if the Church did not receive them, a sum equal to them would go to the landlord, and the people would not be benefited by the abolition of tithes.Sir R. Inglis
 could not allow the observation to pass, that the landlord was the only person affected by the tithe-system, without notice. The manner in which the tithes were collected was productive of more evil than the hon. Member appeared to be aware of. No kind of tax was so productive of inconvenience to individuals, and the community generally, as tithes and the system of levying them; and he, therefore, hoped that some measure would be adopted, without delay, to effect a beneficial alteration in the system.Mr. Hume
l.,l.13581357 rose to present a Petition from the untried prisoners confined in the gaol of Newgate, in Dublin. They complained that they had been for a long period immured in the dungeons of that gaol, and that they had not an opportunity of being tried, in consequence of the absence of the Recorder, who was attending his parliamentary duties in that House. He was bound to consider the petitioners innocent until they were found guilty, according to law, and he conceived that they had just reason to complain of this hardship. The petitioners were in number ninety-five, who had been confined on various charges, and they could not obtain a trial in consequence of the circumstance which he had stated; they were thus kept, in prison, because the Recorder of Dublin, who ought to be at his post to try them, was a Member of that
l.,l.13581357 O'Gorman Mahon
 said, that one of the allegations of the petitioners was, that many of them had been confined in prison for thirty and forty days—a term too long for those who were innocent, and even the guilty had a right to be brought to trial. These men would not, surely, have been so long confined had the Recorder been at his post. He did not want to throw any imputations on the Recorder. It was manifestly impossible for him to communicate the contents of this petition to the Recorder, for he had received it since the departure of that learned Gentleman for Dublin. He must repeat, that the two offices were quite incompatible, if the learned Gentleman possessed a limited extent of ubiquity.O'Gorman Mahon
 conceived that this was a most important question indeed. The duties of the two offices were perfectly incompatible, and when the subject was mentioned, the right hon. Baronet, who was lately Minister of Justice, rose to find excuses for it. If the Recorder attended to his duty in Dublin, it was impossible that he could attend to his duty in that House. It was the duty of a Member of Parliament always to be in his place, and how could the Recorder of Dublin fulfill that duty? He wondered that his Majesty's late Government did not take up this question. He was surprised that the right hon. Baronet below him, the late Home Secretary, did not prevent this judicial officer from exercising functions so completely incompatible. He trusted that the present Government would direct their attention to the subject. At all events it was the duty of the House, when the Estimate came to be voted which included the grant for the Recorder of Dublin, to withhold it until he had made his selection between the situation of Recorder and Member of that House, the respective duties of which were so utterly incompatible.Mr. Hume
l.l. wished to set the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) right as to one fact. In Ireland there are no stated periods for the sitting of the Recorder. It altogether depended on his will, and this was generally guided by the state of the calendar; and if it should not please the Recorder to sit for a considerable time, or it he was absent attending his parliamentary duties, the unfortunate citizens of Dublin were mulcted in order to support the increased number of prisoners. Now, the keeping persons in prison who were supplied by the common funds, was an injury to England as well as Ireland. He held in his hand a document, giving an account of 550 English having been relieved in Dublin, 440 of whom were sent home to their own country. By keeping people in prison, the means were diminished for relieving distress. There was another circumstance, which he conceived rendered the presence of the Recorder at. all times absolutely necessary. It was his duty to receive bail in the absence of the Judges of the land. This duty could be delegated to no other person. The Courts of Dublin were different from those of London— there they were empowered to issue Writs, on oath, for the recovery of debts, from the sum of 40s. to 60,000l.l.O'Gorman Mahon
 Peel1362 said, that he did not expect that the right hon. Baronet would take up the question in the manner he had done, making an attack on him in not a very courteous and civil tone. He wished the right hon. Baronet to understand, he was not one of those men who pretended to be acquainted with every thing, nor did he say that he was not, like other men, liable
 Peel1362Mr. Hume
 said, he was wrongfully accused by the hon. member for Longford for assailing the learned Recorder in his absence. He had never uttered a word of accusation against him; all he had done was, to repeat the statements of the petitioners, for which he was in no way answerable; and as to giving the learned Gentleman notice, that would have been very difficult, as he was not in the way to receive it. The very complaint against him was, that he was not present where he ought to be, to perform his duties; but if he had been here when he was at home—then he might have received the notice. The fact was, he was not to be found anywhere. When asked for in Dublin, he was on the stage for London; and inquired after in London, was perhaps, in a steam-packet bound for Ireland. He hoped the hon. Member for Longford would withdraw his charge against him, of having assailed the learned Gentleman in his absence.O'Gorman Mahon
 moved the third reading of the Consolidated Fund Bill.Mr. Ellice
1365 admitted, that it was a correct assertion of the right hon. Gentleman, that it was the intention of his Majesty's late Ministers to propose to Parliament a reduction of the duties on barilla. A bill had even been prepared for that purpose; and in the bill, he was free to confess that, there had been introduced a provision something like the alteration now proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. He begged, however, to say most distinctly, that, as Parliament were sitting at the time the alteration was proposed to be. made, it would not have been attempted without the authority and consent of Parliament. He said thus much with reference to the case, not by way of censure, but as a warning to the members of his Majesty's Government for the future not to meddle with sources of taxation under the immediate control of the House. He must say, indeed, that, unless the right hon. Gentleman was able to state some better
1365Mr. Herries
: The right hon. Gentleman seems to forget that the House had passed a Resolution sanctioning that scale.Mr. Herries
1370 said, he should endeavour to give a short answer to the somewhat lengthy question of the hon. Member for Corfe Castle. It was quite true that Mr. Gregory had been removed from the office he held under the late Government, be-
1370Sir James Graham
 approved highly of the conduct of the Ministers on this occasion, and declared, it was absolutely necessary for the good government of Ireland that the office of the Under Secretary of State, which had long been a nest of partiality and party spirit, should be thoroughly cleared.Mr. Ruthven
On the question being again put, 1374**l.*13731372l.1371 said, that as it was not probable he should have another opportunity for some weeks to come, to attract the attention of the House to what he considered an important subject, he felt it necessary to make a few observations on the recent appointments and changes in Ireland. He believed that all men were agreed on the question of the fitness of the persons who were appointed to fill these offices, and he was confident, indeed, that the learned Gentleman raised to the bench of the Common Pleas, would, in a very brief space of time, satisfy all of the propriety of his elevation. It was not so much to the men who were placed in the new situations, as to the manner in which they were so placed, that the objections were taken; and he believed he spoke the feelings of the people of Ireland when he said, that the appointment of (Lord Plunkett) to the head of the Court of Chancery had excited the utmost dissatisfaction and astonishment. On a former occasion, he (Mr. Dawson) had asked a question of the noble Lord (Althorp) with respect to that appointment, and the noble Lord seemed to know very little about it. He had, however, since learnt, that Lord Plunkett had been selected for the appointment because the Government had occasion for a political Judge. Now, in his humble opinion, Ire-
1374**l.*13731372l.1371Mr. George Dawson
 rose, to express his surprise that the right hon. Gentleman should have ripped up accusations—exploded accusations—of ten years' standing, in order to make a point against the Government, without giving him (Colonel O'Grady) any notice of his intention. Had the right hon. Gentleman done so, he should have been prepared to prove, that those who brought forward those charges against his father acquitted him of any criminality, and that the public were equally satisfied of his innocence. With respect to the imputation of a bribe to leave the Bench, he must say, that he never expected to be the inheritor of honours acquired in that manner. He knew, indeed, that it never would be his lot. The character of his father placed him above such an imputation, and he could say with confidence, that if he retired, and he was not yet convinced that it was his father's intention to retire, his retirement would take place without any regard to the official changes which would ensue in consequence of his doing so. The Chief Baron had been frequently offered permission to retire; and if, after twenty-five years service, he now accepted the offer, he was sure it was without the shadow of an imputation of impropriety. He trusted the House would pardon the time he had occupied in giving vent to the feelings which had been roused on this occasion; but he could not avoid expressing his surprise, that he had not received any intimation of this renewal of the charges against the Chief Baron.Colonel O'Grady
1378l.l.1377l.13761375 began, by complaining that the right hon. Gentleman had taken the opportunity of making an attack on the Government, at a time when the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) was unavoidably absent, from a domestic calamity; and his other noble friend (Lord Palmerston) was also absent, from the pressure of the most urgent public business. The defence of the measures of the Government had, therefore, fallen on him (Sir J. Graham), one of its most unworthy members; and he must take leave to trouble the House with a very few observations on the extraordinary attack which the right hon. Gentleman had made on the whole
1378l.l.1377l.13761375Sir James Graham
1379 begged to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, respecting the opinions of the small minority, who, seven or eight years ago, had voted on the question to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded. As he (Mr. Lamb) believed that he was almost the only Member present who had belonged to that small minority, the responsibility of defending their conduct devolved upon him. He trusted he was not unequal to that task; but he thought it would have been more accordant to justice, although not perhaps to the right hon. Gentleman's view of it, if the right hon. Gentleman had abstained from touching upon that subject, in the absence of those who were more competent to answer. He confessed, that he was never more astonished than at the proposition which had been advanced by the right hon. Gentleman. That proposition was to the effect, that although the House had determined, on the occasion in question, that the Chief Baron should not be put on his trial, he should nevertheless be now treated as if he had been, not only tried, but convicted. Was the acquittal by that House nothing? He had always been taught to consider a person innocent before he had been tried; the right hon. Gentleman seemed to consider persons guilty after they had been acquitted. But because he had been one of a small minority who had formerly voted for putting the Chief Baron on his trial, was he therefore ever after to consider that learned person as unfit for office or for honour, and to hunt and persecute him to the end of his life? He had not a very clear recollection of the circumstances of the case; but he remembered, that after a re-con-
1379Mr. G. Lamb
 was one of those who, on the occasion alluded to, had voted for Parliament's sending the Chief Baron to trial in some other place. The minority was small, but among them were the present Lord Lyndhurst, and others whose opinions were entitled to respect. But because that was his opinion ten years ago, should he be justified after Parliament had determined against it, in maintaining', that the learned person in question should not have the rewards and honours to which his long public services entitled him? Further than that, he had never thought the case a strong one; and if he had been a friend of the Chief Baron's, he would at the time have advised him to demand an inquiry into his conduct. The proposition was, however, over-ruled by the House. He had had some connexion with Ireland, and he had never known the Chief Baron's integrity as a Judge impeached, except in the instance which had been adverted to. He was quite ready to take his full share of the responsibility of his conduct on that occasion; he did not shrink, he never would shrink, from avowing the part he had taken; but he must protest against such observations, reviving forgotten imputations, as had that night been made by the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. M. A. Taylor
1380 would touch upon only one or two of the multifarious points comprehended in the attack of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He had not the honour to know the Chief Baron; but the cause of that learned person had already been satisfactorily advocated by his most natural and competent defender. From all that he had heard of that learned person, he concurred in everything that had been said in his praise. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to consider, that the appointment of Lord Plunkett to (he office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland would be equally obnoxious to the Catholics and to the Protestants in Ireland. Why? No one had espoused the cause of Ca-
1380Lord Morpeth
1381 begged to say a few words. He was exceedingly surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman opposite say, that the Protestants in Ireland would look with jealousy on the appointment of Lord Plunkett as Lord Chancellor. Did he forget, that a most eminent member of the Protestant Church of Ireland had married his daughter; and that two of his sons were in the Church? As to the noble Lord's having been a Dissenter, did the right hon. Gentleman forget that Archbishop Seeker, and several other dignitaries of the Church of England, had originally been Dissenters? With respect to the removal of the Under-Secretary of State in Ireland, such a removal was essential to the efficient transaction of the public service, and was perfectly justifiable in principle, for that officer had often very important confidential political duties to perform at the Castle, when the Chief Secretary must be attending his duties in Parliament. He was well aware that the best devised measures of any Government might be thwarted or neutralized in their effects, by being carried into execution by unwilling instruments; for he knew, by melancholy personal experience, how unsatisfactorily business must be performed,
1381Sir John Newport
 thought the discussion now introduced had been most unnecessarily commenced, and he entered his protest against the mode adopted by the right hon. Gentleman to prejudice the minds of the Government and of that House against the adoption of measures of Reform and Retrenchment.Mr. Hume
 said, he had not the slightest intention to create any prejudice against Reform or Retrenchment, both of which he should be happy to see effected, provided they did not injure existing institutions.Sir R. Peel
1392l.1391cheers and laughter.terrorem,1390 maintained, that such had been the tendency of the right hon. Baronet's observations. He advised all
1392l.1391cheers and laughter.terrorem,1390Mr. Hume
 had not condemned the French—he had said that they had no alternative but resistance, and had only observed, that lawful as was the resistance, it was still unfortunately true that the Revolution thus occasioned, though successful, had been productive of much misery.Sir R. Peel
139713961395quiddam honorarium13941393: Sir, the hon. member for Middlesex has made so long a digression from the subject immediately before the House, that I almost regret that my connection with Ireland makes it a kind of personal duty on me to make a few observations in reply to the right hon. Baronet, who addressed the House at such length, and with so much ability, on the subject of the recent law appointments in Ireland. I admit that I have felt deeply on these appointments. I hope I entertain the opinions which an independent, considerate, and fair man, ought to feel on such an occasion. All those who have addressed the House on the subject of these appointments, have confined their observations to the personal claims and merit of Lord Plunkett. Sir, with the greatest deference, there is a person left out of the consideration of the question, whose station, whose feelings, and whose responsibility, ought not, in times of such immense public difficulty, to be treated lightly, or inconsiderately overlooked,—Sir, I mean the first Lord of the Treasury, and Prime Minister, Earl Grey. Sir, when that distinguished nobleman and statesman was called on to form an Administration, what was the state of public affairs? Will any man say, that the foreign and domestic concerns of the country were ever in so critical or so embarrassing a situation? Was not the continent of Europe exposed to a political earthquake and a moral convulsion, which bore no similitude or resemblance to anything that had happened at any former period? Will
139713961395quiddam honorarium13941393Mr. Leader
1398 believed there were but few who listened to the bad advice of the press to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, so that the poison, unless it spread widely, could do little harm to the community at large. He was persuaded that discontent would subside, and finally disappear. It had been excited by the posi-
1398Mr. Slaney
 explained, that he did not intend to be guilty of any want of courtesy towards the right hon. Gentleman, especially in not communicating the nature of the statement he had to make: the fact was, that it was called for on the sudden, by the unfair removal of Mr. Gregory. He, however, begged to apologise to the hon. Baronet for the use of the word "bribe," which had escaped from him, while he only meant it in the sense of inducement. In what he had said, he had not intended to express the slightest personal ill-will.Mr. G. Dawson
 having moved the printing of certain Parish Returns, which ought to be in the hands of Members during the approaching recess,Sir Robert Peel
1399 said, he would take that opportunity, in the absence of the noble Lord (Althorp), of stating the intended arrangement of public business. It was to be proposed that the House, at its rising this night, should adjourn till to-morrow; to-morrow it would be moved that it should adjourn at its rising until Thursday; on Thursday it was intended to move, that the House should adjourn for the recess until the 8th of February. On the 15th of February the House would commence with the Election petitions, in the order in which they stood in the book; three ballots would take place on each of two days in the week, viz. three on every
1399Sir J. Graham
 was quite aware of the circumstances in which Ministers were placed, and of their natural desire to have an interval of time to make certain preparations; but he could not help saying, that he thought the proposed adjournment too long, looking at the very little business that had been already transacted. He had no wish to embarrass Ministers, and he admitted their claim to an opportunity of maturely considering their measures.Sir R. Peel
 merely rose to protest against the doctrine of his hon. and learned friend (Sir E. B. Sugden), that a member of the Common Law Bar could not make a competent Lord Chancellor. This was saying, that to spend twenty years in an equity draughtsman's office, was the best education for a Lord Chancellor, a proposition which he could never acquiesce in. He had the authority of Lord Eldon for saying, that the best Chancellors were those that had been taken from the Common Law Bar. That learned Lord himself went the northern circuit. Sir Samuel Romilly practised at Sessions sixteen or seventeen years, and he believed that the most eminent Equity lawyers had received the best part of their education at the Common Law Bar.Mr. Campbell
1363 said, that the present Recorder of Dublin had performed the duties of his station with attention and impartiality, and he thought the charge brought against him might have been
1363Mr. A. Lefroy
 remarked upon the unfairness of making such an attack in the absence of the Recorder, who was, he was certain, able to clear himself from any imputations which the petitioners or the hon. Gentleman might cast upon him. He wished to know from the hon. Member, whether he was certain that the discharge of the prisoners in question was cot owing to other circumstances besides the absence of the Recorder. This he knew, that previous to the Recorder coming over here, he had tried all the prisoners who were then ready for trial, to the perfect satisfaction of the public. He was also desirous to ascertain from the hon. Gentleman whether he had acquainted the Recorder with the charges which were preferred against him in this petition, previous to his presentation of it?Mr. A. Lefroy
 said, that at all events, there were precedents for the course adopted, and he thought that it could not be denominated in the slightest degree unconstitutional, while it must be admitted, to be productive of immediate advantage.Mr. Poulett Thomson
 said, he thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Robinson) might have found a very sufficient justification for the course pursued by his Majesty's Government in the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite. That right hon. Gentleman had stated, that his Majesty's late Government were themselves prepared to bring in a bill for the purpose of reducing the duties. That intention had been, indeed, formally announced in the last Session of Parliament; and although not carried into effect, the confusion and the indecision which it introduced into every branch of the trade had been so extremely prejudicial, that many of the dealers, whose future condition the hon. Member so much pitied, were already quite ruined. As to the method by which the Government had effected the alteration, they had merely followed the precedents on former occasions of the same description, and he could produce ten cases of the adoption of a similar course, and full five of them, too, without, the intervening consent of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman, who had shown so much touchiness on the subject, mentioned the case of the silk-duties; but there was also the precedent of the alteration of the sugar-duties, on which occasion the right hon. Gentleman (the then Chancellor of the Exchequer) sent an order to the Custom House on the 1st of July, to take the duty according to the new scale, before the House gave its consent to the change.Mr. Poulett Thomson
s.,l.1364 was sorry to say, that the answer he had given to the question of the hon. Baronet was not likely to give him satisfaction, or to accord with his views. The Government meant to
s.,l.1364Mr. Poulett Thomson
1361 explained, that the Recorder of Dublin held Sessions more frequently than they were held in London. In Dublin, he believed, the Sessions were held every fortnight. He was of opinion that there was no want of attention shown by the proper authorities to the state of the several gaols in Ireland. He knew that any letter from any prisoners to the Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench, was sure to meet attention from that officer; though he believed that trials had
1361Mr. Ruthven
 submitted that the debate should be adjourned.Sir E. B. Sugden
142414231422l.l.l.l.l.,14211420l.l.l.l.,l.l.1419l.l.l.l.l., 1418l.l.1417l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.1416l.l.; s.l. l.l.1415l.l. l.l.l., l,14141413John Williams1412 confessed, that he had heard the speech of his hon. and learned friend, who had just sat down, with a great deal of surprise. He remembered the hon. Member's speech on the same subject last year, when he was one of the most strenuous supporters of the proposition for the appointment of a new Equity Judge, it seemed extraordinary, therefore, that he should now propose that the greater part, if not the whole, of the business should be removed from the Equity Courts to the Courts of Common Law. His hon. and learned friend found fault with his hon. and learned friend, the member for Weymouth, for not bringing forward any distinct question, and proposed to remove the business of Courts of Equity to his own Court. Instead, however, of shewing that any part of the business of the Court of Chancery could be disposed of in a more cheap, easy, and compendious manner in the Courts of Common Law, his hon. and learned friend had laboured to shew, that both jurisdictions were
142414231422l.l.l.l.l.,14211420l.l.l.l.,l.l.1419l.l.l.l.l., 1418l.l.1417l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.1416l.l.; s.l. l.l.1415l.l. l.l.l., l,14141413John Williams1412Mr. Spence
 thought, the petitioner had gone too far in declaring that he could prove bribery and corruption, and then insinuating that his (General Gascoyne's) hon. and learned colleague meant to evade the charge. He trusted that his hon. and learned colleague had been informed of the intention to present this petition.General Gascoyne
1368 was quite satisfied, that the argument of his hon. friend, the member for Newcastle, would not bear the test of examination. The adoption of any system like that which he alluded to for the encouragement of trade, would be most pernicious, and would completely fail to attain the object aimed at. What would be the effect of thus encouraging the manufacture of British barilla, by levying so heavy an impost on a foreign alkali? It would be this—to fix an additional cost on the production of every article, in the manufacture of which alkali is used; it would be to compel the manufacturer to resort to a British article, for which he would have to pay from fifty to 100 per cent, more than what he would procure a foreign article of the same quality for. His hon. friend would support the manufacture of alkali here by the imposition of an immense duty on foreign barilla. It was perfectly clear that the English manufacturer never could compete with the foreigner in the production of this commodity; and every attempt to encourage the manufacture of an article at home, by the imposition of an enormous duty on the foreign article, only inflicted a most serious injury on other manufactures in which it is used. He was surprised that any hon. Member, so conversant with trade as his hon. friend, should talk of imposing a protecting duty on an article of produce, or on a raw material, for the encouragement of Our manufactures. Such a system of trade would cause distress, and would ruin many of the important establishments. He admitted that, to a particular class of manufacturers the duty in question might be beneficial; but at a serious loss to the community. It was not the interest of the country to encourage the production of an article which could be produced at so much less cost elsewhere; for it was obvious, that the adoption of such a line of policy must operate as a heavy tax on some of our most important manufactures; the demand for which, and in proportion, the demand for the labour necessary to produce them, must be in the same ratio decreased, to the great injury of that class of manufacturing labourers engaged in this branch of our trade. Mr. Huskisson Stated, on the production of his schedule
1368Mr. Maberly
14111410l.l.1409l.l.,1408l.l.1407l.l.l.1406" Hear, hear," from Sir E. B. Sugdenof14051404 said, his chief objection to the proceedings of that night, and the night before, was, that there was no specific
14111410l.l.1409l.l.,1408l.l.1407l.l.l.1406" Hear, hear," from Sir E. B. Sugdenof14051404Mr. J. Williams
1369 said, the five instances alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, even if they had been found to prove that there were precedents for the measure, formed no justification in his mind for an act of gross usurpation of the powers of Parliament by any Government, and more particularly by the members of a Government scarcely yet fully installed in the offices to which they were appointed. In his opinion, it was not for the members of a Government of that kind to take on themselves the responsibility of interfering with the exercise of one of the most important privileges of Parliament—the re-
1369Mr. Attwood
14031402l.l.14011400 addressed the House. He said, that his learned friend (Sir E. B. Sugden) below him, seemed to think that he (Sir E. Sugden) had stood forward the other night, for the first time, as the first exposer of the abuses of the Court of Chancery. His learned friend, however, was,
14031402l.l.14011400Mr. M. A. Taylor
1354l.;1353 presented a Petition, very numerously signed, from the inhabitants of Bristol, on the subject of West-Indian Slavery. He thought it necessary he should explain the cause which gave rise to the petition. Some time since, a numerous meeting of the inhabitants of Bristol,—called by public advertisement, —took place at Bristol, to consider the state of slavery in the West Indies, with a view of petitioning Parliament for its
1354l.;1353Mr. H. Davis
 was ready to acquiesce in the adjournment; but he thought Members must feel how much more advantageous it would be to deliver their opinions when there was some substantive proposition before the House, and not on conversation leading to nothing. He did not conceive it was regular to adjourn, for the second time, on an unresisted motion,Mr. R. Grant
 spoke against the measure adopted by the right hon. Gentleman, and observed, that although the late Government did pursue the same course with respect to the silk-trade, they never had recourse to it afterwards. No such proceeding had been adopted whilst the right hon. member for Harwich (Mr. Herries) or Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald filled the office of President of the Board of Trade. Those Gentlemen always set their faces against the practice, from a consideration of the inconvenience which had resulted from it in the case quoted by the right hon. Gentleman. That right hon. Gentleman ought to remember, that this was a protecting duty, and that he could not abrogate it without exposing the manufacturer to great inconvenience. He regretted, indeed, that the Government had followed the only bad precedent it could find in the present instance.Mr. Courtenay
 was obliged to the hon. Member for the lecture, which he had read to him about the use of courteous and civil terms. He had no interest or motive whatever to palliate what the hon. Member called an abuse. He had no interest in the question, and he had declared, that he would give no opinion on the compatibility of the two situations. The hon. Member condemned the Ministers for not having prevented the union of the two situations in the same person— an argument he could only have used from supposing that the Recorder held his office under the Crown.Sir Robert Peel
 wished again to declare, that he had not intended to canvass the question, whether the Recorder should sit in Parliament or not. He had only wished to state, that the prisoners were detained by the rules of the law, and not by the absence of the Recorder.Sir R. Peel
1360 was prepared to answer any charges which could be properly
1360Sir R. Peel
1359 apprehended, that the
1359Sir Robert Peel
 presented Petitions from the Corporation of Glasgow, the Corporations of the Burghs of Dundee, and from the Royal Burghs of Jedburgh and Dumfries, praying for an extension of the Scottish franchise.Mr. Kennedy
 begged hon. Members, before they proceeded further, to bear in mind, that if this were an election petition, it was too late; and if it were not an election petition, it would be well to inquire how far they would prejudge this case, or enter into a subject which must, by the law of the land, be examined before a committee.The Speaker
s.l.l. would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade; if there were any truth in the report he had heard, of its being the intention of Government to reduce the duties on barilla. He had heard that the Officers of the Customs had received orders to admit foreign barilla at a rate of duty much below that ordered by the law. The House would recollect, that this subject had formerly been under discussion, and that the duty had been reduced from 11s.l.l.Sir George Clerk
1351 said, he had to present a Petition from an individual who was a party to the petition which he had formerly introduced to the House, against the return of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Ewart), for the
1351Mr. Robinson
 expressed his opinion, that this was not an election petition. The petitioner, anticipating the possibility of the petition which he (Mr. Robinson) had formerly presented not being inquired into, in consequence of the parties not entering into recognizances, or from some other cause, called on the House to prosecute the matter themselves, should his apprehension prove well-founded. Now he would ask, whether there was anything irregular or informal in that? With respect to what had fallen from the gallant General, he could assure him, that he never presented a petition of a personal nature without apprising the individual to whom it related of the fact.Mr. Robinson
 said, he could not allow the opportunity to pass, without also expressing his objection to the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman. He protested against it as unjust, and calculated to produce mischief. This was the season at which the merchants who dealt in barilla were in the habit of importing the quantity they required; and the right hon. Gentleman informed them, that those who took out their barilla under the new regulations were to give a bond for the payment of duty, in the event of its being required, if Parliament refused to sanction the reduction made by the Treasury. Now, he was at liberty to argue, that this assent would be refused. He had aright, for argument sake, to assume it; and, what, then, would be the consequence of this refusal, to those who took the barilla out for general consumption and sold it to the trade, when they were afterwards called on to make good the duty on their bond? This was one only of many inconveniences which would result from the right hon. Gentleman's interference in the present instance with a duty levied under the sanction of that House.Mr. George Robinson
1367 also protested against the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman as in the highest degree dangerous and injurious, and he hoped, for the sake of the kelp-makers of this country, that the determination to alter the duty would undergo some reconsideration. He was convinced that if the kelp-manufacturers of our own shores were properly encouraged, that barilla would speedily become one of the staples of the country. The manufacturers viewed, however, with the greatest alarm, the intended alteration of
1367Sir M. W. Ridley
 cordially supported the prayer of these petitions. He was of opinion, that a similar extension of the franchise in Ireland should be granted. In several of the Irish boroughs, the right of sending Representatives to that House was confined to a sovereign and twelve freemen, a great portion of whom were generally non-residents. Even before the Union, such, in many instances, was the case. He would mention the town of Galway as an example. He also knew three boroughs, of which the whole number of voters did not amount to thirteen, that sent six Members to Parliament. He spoke of matters as they stood before the Union, but at the same time he must remark, that this grievance, in a great measure, still continued.Sir J. Newport
 said, that in moving for a return connected with the Established Church in Ireland, his object was, to avert the evils now impending over that establishment, and to correct whatever abuses there existed under the present system. He had in his possession accounts of two cases of a Distress for tithes levied in Dublin lately—the one was for fifteen, and the other for sixteen years' arrears. The hon. Baronet then moved, than an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that there be laid before the House a copy of the Commission issued on the 4th March last, for an Inquiry into the Established Church in Ireland.—Ordered.Sir John Newport
7 presented a Petition from the county of Middlesex, praying for Retrenchment and Economy, for a general Reform, and for the Vote by Ballot. The petitioners also prayed for a reform in the Poor-laws, and in the present mode of collecting Tithes; but they stated, that they did not expect that any effectual remedy would be applied to the evils of the country, unless a thorough reform in Parliament should be accomplished, and the right of election given to every individual paying rates and taxes. But they conceived that no extension of the elective franchise would be beneficial, unless the mode of voting by ballot should
7Mr. Hume
9 was not surprised that the hon. Member, an opponent of reform, was in favour of maintaining a large standing army; because, if the people did not have reform granted them they must be governed by the bayonet. The hon. Member had said, that the late proceedings at Liver-pool had brought him to the conclusion, that the mere numbers of the voters would not secure purity of election. In that opinion he agreed with the hon. Member, and the ballot was the only security, in his opinion, against such misconduct as had been exhibited by the electors of Liverpool. With respect to the election at Preston, he was sorry that a very distinguished Gentleman, a member of his Majesty's Government, had not succeeded there. But his defeat was owing to his having answered in the
9Mr. Warburton
 said, that he could not concur in the statement made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Warrender), that the people were not generally in favour of reform. In his opinion, 19-20ths of the thinking part of the community were in favour of reform, though they might not all be prepared to go the same length.Mr. Guest
Mr. Hobhouse sat on the Opposition side of the House15141312"No" from Sir R. Wilson thought the arguments of the gallant General did not proceed from reason, and were not addressed to reason. It would be more useful to appeal to what had been done in America, than to what an individual said the Americans were going to do. In the United States, at the first beginning of their independence, open voting had been universally adopted [Mr. Hobhouse sat on the Opposition side of the House15141312"No" from Sir R. WilsonMr. Hobhouse
21 said, that as he was not likely to have another opportunity before the holidays, he felt himself called on to express his opinions on a subject which
21Sir R. Inglis
 felt strongly inclined to ask the hon. Baronet, the member for the University of Oxford, who the persons were, and in what class they were to be found, whom he denominated the intelligent portion of the community. And he would be glad also to know at what period all classes had so loudly demanded, and were in fact so absolutely clamorous, for a Reform of Parliament. He thought that the intelligence of which the hon. Baronet spoke, was to be found in the middle classes. They were the persons who now demanded a Reform of Parliament; and if the present Ministry did not make up their minds to grant the concessions which were required from them by the universal voice of that class, he saw no prospect of permanency in power for them, nor for any other party which might be called to take the helm of affairs. He was no advocate for what was called radical Reform; but he wished to see the intelligence and the property (if they pleased) of this country fairly and truly represented in Parliament; for as the House was at that moment constituted, no man could say, that, intelligence and property were fairly represented.Mr. Bernal
cries of "Order! rose to defend the character of the Ministry, and to justify the course adopted by the noble Premier, with respect to the question of Reform. That noble Lord had not held out any illusions, or pledged himself to more than he could perform. On that occasion, the noble Lord thus expressed himself in the other House [cries of "Order!Mr. Hume
Dolendi modus, timendi non item.multis utile bellum"This same Dolendi modus, timendi non item.multis utile bellumHinc concussa fides et multis utile bellum."'Hinc usura vorax, rapidumque in tempora fœnus"So when any of the four pillars of Government are mainly shaken or weakened (which are religion, justice, counsel, and treasure), men had need to pray for fair weather. But let us pass from this part of predictions (concerning which, nevertheless, more light may be taken from that which followeth), and let us speak first of the materials of seditions, then of the motives of them, and thirdly of the remedies. Concerning the materials of seditions, it is a thing well lo be considered, for the surest way to prevent seditions (if the times do bear; is to take away the matter of them, for if there be fuel prepared, it is hard to tell whence the spark shall come that shall set it on fire. The matter of seditions is of two kinds—much poverty, and much discontentment. It is certain. so many overthrown estates, so many votes for troubles.—Lucian noteth well the state of Home before the civil war—4140l.39l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.38 regretted the presentation of the petition in the existing state of the House, for never, perhaps, was one of greater importance offered to its notice. He had been asked by many of those who signed it to support its prayer. He knew the parties, and knew that many of the facts stated were strictly correct. He was perfectly acquainted with the district referred to in the petition, for his property was surrounded by a part of it. It was not his wish at that time to enter into all the circumstances connected with this case, which was, he hoped and believed, an extreme one, and that no other case of equal hardship and oppression could be found in any part of the country. Let the House mark what the petitioners stated, and look at the situation of the Established Church and of the law, with such causes of dissatisfaction in existence; and mark too the situation of the petitioners, driven to seek the expensive aid of Chancery, as a protection against the already too onerous impost of tithes. He knew the place and the people, and knew that they had no political feeling adverse to the Government. There was not. in the whole country, for a series of years, a body of men so strictly loyal, such rigid Tories, so proud of the Constitution under which they lived, and (though the: hon. member for Middlesex would not think the better of them for this) so ready at paying war taxes. There were no men who adhered more pertinaciously lo the Government—the Tory Government—than the people of Havering-atte-Bower and its neighbourhood. Only that very day, however, a person stated
Dolendi modus, timendi non item.multis utile bellum"This same Dolendi modus, timendi non item.multis utile bellumHinc concussa fides et multis utile bellum."'Hinc usura vorax, rapidumque in tempora fœnus"So when any of the four pillars of Government are mainly shaken or weakened (which are religion, justice, counsel, and treasure), men had need to pray for fair weather. But let us pass from this part of predictions (concerning which, nevertheless, more light may be taken from that which followeth), and let us speak first of the materials of seditions, then of the motives of them, and thirdly of the remedies. Concerning the materials of seditions, it is a thing well lo be considered, for the surest way to prevent seditions (if the times do bear; is to take away the matter of them, for if there be fuel prepared, it is hard to tell whence the spark shall come that shall set it on fire. The matter of seditions is of two kinds—much poverty, and much discontentment. It is certain. so many overthrown estates, so many votes for troubles.—Lucian noteth well the state of Home before the civil war—4140l.39l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.38Mr. Long Wellesley
44l.l.l.l.4342 said, that a petition so important was never brought forward under circumstances so inconvenient, and
44l.l.l.l.4342Sir Robert Inglis
4645 hoped, as the petition came from the immediate neighbourhood in which he resided, that the House would suffer him to make a few observations. He believed that his hon. friend, the member for Essex, left the House under the impression that the petition would not be presented to-night, and he was exceedingly sorry that his hon. friend was not present. He was prepared, however, most cordially to support the prayer of the petition, which points to a great and pressing evil, calling for immediate redress. He agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that the Church ought to claim its rights within a reasonable lime, or otherwise its claims should lapse, like those of individuals. The Church, and collegiate bodies, were the only corporations which now maintain this odious and invidious power,—a power so odious and unpopular, that there was no real friend of the Church who would not wish it abrogated. By the courtesy of the hon. member for Middlesex, he had had an opportunity of looking into the petition, and could bear testimony to the respectability of the petitioners. It appeared to him that the hon. Baronet, the member for the University of Oxford, had entirely mistaken the view which the hon. member for Middlesex took in presenting this petition. The hon. Member did not lay this case before the House as a Court of Appeal, but as affording reasons for calling upon the House to pass a law, by which the grounds of complaint stated in the petition might be removed. The hon. Baronet stated, that the tithes of Havering-
4645Mr. Lennard
 rose to order. He moved that the House be counted.Mr. Courtenay
 explained, that when any Member noticed that forty Members were not present, and called upon him to count the House, he was bound to do so; no motion could be made, nor any business proceeded with, after it was remarked and ascertained that there were not forty Members present, for, strictly speaking, there was then no House competent to dispose of any motion. The House was accordingly counted, and forty Members not being present, was adjourned.The Speaker
26:—Well, then, I'll take another way. In a certain island called Brob-
26Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.27l. in moving for the following Returns, viz. of the expense of the whole establishments now maintained in the Isle of Man, and paid from public monies, for the civil, military, revenue, and other departments (including that of the Church); stating the name of every person receiving more than 50l.l.l.l.l.27l.Mr. Hume
d.s.d.l.l.l.l.28 thought, that the hon. member for Middlesex, had given rather an exaggerated statement of the badness of this bargain. The sovereignty of the Isle of Man was bought of the Duke of Athol, who, though owing fealty to the King, had certain rights, the exercise of which was particularly inconvenient, on account of the encouragement it gave to smuggling on the coasts of Lancashire and Cumberland: a power was therefore given by the House, to purchase those rights, and persons were
d.s.d.l.l.l.l.28Lord Lowther
 was not disposed to agree with the hon. member for Oxford, that the desire for Reform had not increased. He believed that some Reform was necessary, and that the desire for it had lately made considerable progress in the country. When Ministers brought forward their plan of Reform, he would give it his best consideration; and if he could, consistently with his sense of duty, and without yielding to mere popular clamour, assent to that plan, he would give it his most cordial support.Mr. W. Duncombe
10 expressed his surprise at hearing the opinions which fell from the right hon. Baronet respecting reform. He believed that the desire for reform pervaded all places, and he believed that a full, efficient, and complete reform must take place. That was necessary for the salvation of our institutions, and to give contentment to the people. He had of late mingled much with the people of all classes, and he was sure that such was the universal sentiment. Amongst the great majority of the well-informed classes at present, the only apprehension was, that reform would be too long delayed, and would not go far enough. That was the opinion and the apprehension of the upper classes as well as the middle classes. At the numerous public meetings which had lately taken place, not one person had proposed to make any amendment to a Resolution for Reform: and whenever the opposite question had been mooted the speaker had not been listened to. He did not believe that any person could be found to vote against reform except such persons
10Mr. Tennyson
2019 thought the most important point in the petition had not been adverted to. It began by alluding to the very great distress in which the country was now plunged. In his opinion, that was the subject which ought most to attract the attention of the House. The state of the country, however, having been already sufficiently discussed, he should make it his endeavour to point out some of the causes which had brought it into
2019Mr. Western
1716 declared, that when he was convinced that the feelings of the great body of the people were as much in favour of ballot as they were in favour of reform, he, for one, should never oppose it by his vote. When it could be shown to him that the respectable body he represented were friendly to the ballot, he would yield his individual opinion to the general opinion. He regretted,
1716Mr. D. W. Harvey
 denied, that the tithes were felt by the agriculturists as a burthen; and maintained, that if a vote by ballot were conceded, it would involve the country in all the horrors of a civil war. He allowed that the great majority of the people were favourable to Parliamentary Reform; but he denied that they were favourable to the ballot. He had been attacked a few nights before, for using intemperate language, and those who attacked him had now supported a petition threatening rebellion.Mr. Curteis
22 said, he could not well understand why the observations of the member for Oxford had been received with a laugh by those who merely entertained a different opinion. It was by no means certain that the feelings of the people were so universally in favour of
22Mr. Horace Twiss
 explained, that he had been one of those who had forced the repeal of the Test Act on the Government; but though they had carried the question in that House, they had no hope of carrying it through the other House. That was done by the Duke of Wellington, and therefore he attributed the carrying of it to him.Mr. Calcraft
18 only rose to express his astonishment at the attack which the hon. member for Westminster had made on the government of the Duke of Wellington, and those who had formed part of the Administration of the Duke of Wellington. The hon. Member had spoken of that Government, as if it had conducted itself only by the principles of corruption, and as if he could not heap upon it too many disgraceful epithets. The hon. Member had stated, that the Duke of Wellington had so governed the country, that if his Administration were again to be placed in office, he must have recourse to a true despotism, because he could not govern by the old means of corruption. The Government of the Duke of Wellington was at first very popular, and it deserved to be so. That Government had repealed the Test and Corporation Acts; it had emancipated the Catholics; it had reduced taxation; and it had carried the principles of economy to a greater extent than he had ever before witnessed. Great credit was due to the Duke of Wellington for his management of the national affairs. He had never before heard, that of all the measures of the Duke of Wellington's Administration, there was not one that was not carried by corruption. He would only beg his hon. friend, if he again made such accusations, not to generalise so much, but to enter into particulars, to point out individuals, and bring forward proofs of his assertions. He wished to ask the hon. member for the county of Middlesex one question: Was it true, as had been stated, that when Mr. Byng, who had represented the
18Mr. Calcraft
252423 did not believe it possible for the Government to go so far as it promised, nor did he believe that even what it professed, could it act up to its professions, would satisfy the people. Their demand for Reform was neither temperate nor moderate. Much as the Ministers were disposed to boast of, and to vaunt their new-born popularity, it rested, in his opinion, on a very slippery foundation, and he was confident they would not long be able to retain possession of the popular confidence. They refused to look into the real cause of the distresses of the people, although they vaunted so much their desire to relieve them. In the petition which was before the House, a prayer was to be found for an alteration of the Corn-laws. He always felt grieved to see the attention of the public diverted in this manner to the discussion of fallacies, be cause they were diverted from the real cause of the distress. The Corn-laws, so
252423Mr. Attwood
 explained, that he was not opposed to the present Ministry, and he would support those who served the country.Mr. Attwood
 said, he had not seen the petition to which the Speaker adverted.Mr. Cradock
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Rye, entreating the attention of the House to the conduct of their returning officer. The petitioners stated, that he had acted, at the late election, contrary to a recent decision of a Committee of that House; and he was of opinion that subordinate officers, who were thus guilty of a dereliction of their duty, deserved to be visited with severe punishment.Mr. Cradock
6 observed, that if this were an election petition, it could not be received, as the time had gone by. The hon. Member must be aware, that in the last Session of the last Parliament, certain parties presented a petition against the then return, involving the right of
6The Speaker
 said, the duty of a Committee appointed under the Act of Parliament was not only to try the right of a person elected to his seat, but also the conduct of the returning officer. He then read an extract from the petition already presented, from which it appeared, that the conduct of the returning officer was complained of.The Speaker
 at length informed him, that he could not read the paper, with reference to its being the speech of a noble Lord of the other House, because the custom of Parliament forbade it; and furthermore, the hon. Member must be aware, that it could not have been inserted in the paper alluded to without a breach of the privileges of Parliament.The Speaker
8 concurred in the prayer of the petition as far as regarded retrenchment and economy, and if the Government only persevered in measures of economy, they would gain the support of the country. He had the fullest confidence that they would redeem the pledges they had given on that point; and he said that, because he deprecated the advice which had lately been given them from the other (the Opposition) side of the House. He had observed symptoms in that House of late, which made him think that, at no distant period, Ministers would be obliged to appeal to the opinion of the people. But they had only to persevere in measures of economy to secure the sympathy of the loyal but distressed inhabitants of the country. He did not concur in the opinion expressed by the petitioners, that it was impolitic to add to the numbers of the army. The first duty of every Government was, to put down sedition and uphold the laws, and he, for one, should always be ready to vote any amount of military force necessary for that purpose. To reform he had always hitherto been opposed, and unless he heard some better reasons adduced in its favour, his opinion would remain unchanged. It was curious to observe the resemblance between former periods of our history and the present period. The overthrow of the Administration of Sir Robert Walpole in 1742, was the result of the first vote of a Parliament which had just come from the people, and since that time he knew of no similar event till the present Session of Parliament. In 1742, as at present, there was a cry for reform, and Lord Percival, who was then member for Westminster, thus described the public proceedings:— "Meanwhile a prodigious ferment appeared
8Sir G. Warrender
29 brought in his Bill, "for establishing a general Register for all Deeds and Instruments affecting Real Property in England and Wales." Read a first time. The hon. Member in moving that it be printed, wished to make a single observation. He was apprehensive that those who were well disposed to the principle of the measure, might consider, perhaps, that it was longer and more complicated than was necessary. In framing the Bill, however, he had not merely had to make a new enactment, but to frame a law in reference to all the laws and anomalous regulations now in force. He could assure the House that simplicity and brevity had been most anxiously studied in adapting the Bill to existing regulations, and he hoped and trusted that its effect would be most beneficial. The Bill contained many provisions not essentially necessary to its principle, and which might be deviated from without affecting the principle. For instance, it was part of the Bill to have one Register Office, situated in the metropolis, for the whole of England and Wales. If it was the pleasure of the
29Mr. John Campbell
doctrinaires,11 agreed with the petition as far as reform and economy were concerned, but he disagreed with the petition, and with the hon. member for Bridport on the subject of ballot. He had on a former occasion expressed his opinion on this subject, and he did not like to sit silent, lest the hon. Member should suppose, that his arguments might have influenced him to change his opinions. He had before referred to America, and some other States, where the ballot was in existence, and had shown that it had not answered expectations there. He had since received a letter from a person of the highest respectability, who had been informed by a merchant of America, "That America had experienced the greatest, evils from the election by ballot; there was a general impression in that country that it would be found necessary to abolish it altogether, and he expected that a measure would soon be proposed to effect it." In Virginia, which contained upwards of a million voters, a Convention had lately met to consider what changes it was necessary to make in the existing institutions, including the Legislature, and in that Convention it was proposed to adopt the ballot, but that proposition was completely rejected, on the ground that the Representative ought to know the opinions, and communicate with the persons who send him to the Senate. It was requisite that the Representative should know the opinions of those who delegated their power to him; he ought to know all their opinions, and he could not do this if they voted by ballot. He should know the feelings of the different parties among the electors. In America it was found necessary, both for the well-being of individuals, and from regard to public opinion, that the votes should be publicly known. The ballot existed too in Sweden; what was the consequence? The Diet was divided into two parties, the French and the Russians, the former being called Hats, the latter Caps.
doctrinaires,11Sir R. Wilson
 was sorry to hear his right hon. friend give the Duke of Wellington credit for actions for which none was due. Did the Duke of Wellington begin the repeal of the Test Act? Certainly not; he did not agree to it till he was forced. He admitted, that the Administration of the Duke of Wellington was popular at the outset, but his Administration had ceased to be popular. Why was that? Because the Duke of Wellington had resisted the wishes of the people for Reform. He had ceased to be popular because he had declared that he would resist their wishes. If the present Ministers should resist those wishes,—if they did not gratify those wishes—they would show themselves unfit for the situation they held. The great military achievements of the Duke of Wellington made the people expect much from his civil government, but they were disappointed. His military glory cast a hope over his civil government, which had never been realized. His civil government never deserved any credit, and he believed no military man ever would make a good civil governor.Sir John Newport
l. presented a petition from the Ward of Aldgate, for the repeal of the Assessed Taxes. It was most respectably signed, the name of the Alderman of the Ward being at the head of the petition, and that was followed by the names of the Commissioners of Assessed Taxes. The petitioners deplored the declining state of trade, which had been failing since 1825, and as trade declined these taxes became a most intolerable hardship. The Assessed Taxes fell very severely on tradesmen, who paid two-thirds of the sum levied in that district. The litigation occasioned by these taxes was appalling, and the surcharges were very numerous, amounting to 180,000l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 was convinced, that nothing would be so acceptable to the public as the remission of these taxes. Fie hoped the worthy Alderman would persevere in his intention, and he should most certainly give him all the support in his power.Mr. Wilks
60 presented a petition from Bath against the House and Window-tax. The gallant General observed, that the petition had been more numerously signed than any former similar petition presented to the House; and although the petitioners had expressed themselves in strong terms, as they had said nothing upon the subject which at present so
60General Palmer
 supported the prayer of the petition; Bath was particularly affected by these taxes, and he hoped to see them repealed.Mr. Hume
 also supported the prayer of the petition. He hoped the people would petition on this subject till the taxes were repealed.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 presented a petition from Kirkaldy, for Parliamentary and Burgh Reform. The noble Lord said, he did not wish to identify or pledge himself to the support of the petitioners' views, but would come unshackled to the consideration of the question.Lord Loughborough
 stated, that the petition was signed by all the respectable inhabitants of the town, and he hoped with them that an extensive Reform would be granted, and would extend to Scotland.Sir Ronald Ferguson
61 wished to call the attention of the House to a petition on a subject which appeared to him of considerable interest and importance. The petition was signed by several Clergymen of the Established Church, by Dissenting Ministers, and by several of the most respectable inhabitants of Boston, in Lincolnshire, and it described the dreadful scenes which occur in India at the religious festivals of the natives. It adverted to the enormous fees collected at the temple of Juggernaut, and other superstitious places, and requested the interference of the House for their abolition. The petitioners also alluded to the numerous immolations of human beings which took place in India, and earnestly entreated the House to adopt measures for abolishing practices so repugnant to the feelings of every considerate individual. When he
61Mr. Wilks
62 thought, that some of the observations of his hon. friend appeared to convey a reflection on the conduct of the East India-Company, for not having interfered with the religious institutions of the Hindoos. He begged leave to enter his protest against such a remark. In his opinion the East-India Company deserved great credit for having allowed the natives of the extensive tract of country under the government of the Company to retain their religious usages without interruption. Having witnessed many of the Indian ceremonies which his hon. friend called idolatries, he must state, that it would be by no means advisable to interrupt them. The East India-Company had indeed put an end to the burning of widows; but it was admitted on all hands, that that sacrifice
62Mr. Hume
l. in moving that the petition be printed, wished to say, that his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, could not be more devoted than he was to the cause of religious freedom, nor less inclined to interfere even with idolatrous superstitions; but the petition stated, that the East-India Company interfered and countenanced these superstitions, and encouraged pilgrims to resort to Juggernaut and other temples; obtaining thereby a revenue of upwards of 900,000l.Mr. Wilks,
 deprecated the practice of hon. Members asking questions of the Government, which it was impossible for the Government to answer. It ought to have due time given it to make its own arrangements, and questions ought not to be put to elicit its opinion.Mr. Cutlar Ferguson
 presented a Petition from certain individuals in Belfast, for the repeal of the Coal Duties.Sir A. Chichester
 said, the question mooted by the hon. Member was not a new one, and had been brought before the House on the question—whether Masters in Chancery could sit in that House or not? He did not conceive, that the question had any relation to that House, as a Master in Chancery could only come into contact with it, by bringing down a message from the other House.Mr. Drake
 would not say, that he would wait, like the hon. Member, in silent confidence on the Ministry, but certainly he could not join in any of the objections raised to the Motion proposed by the noble Lord. With respect to the adjournment, he thought it would be best to leave the period to be fixed by his Majesty's Ministers; and it was not very fair towards men placed in their situation to object to the term proposed. The presence of Members was more necessary in the country than in the House. The objection to the noble Lord's motion he thought unfair; and he should be the last man in that House to raise any objection which, without cause, might embarrass the Government.Lord F. L. Gower
 wished to ask, if his Majesty's Government had any plan under consideration to amend the condition of the peasantry in the southern counties, and remedy the abuses of the Poor-laws?Mr. Slaney
 observed, that Ministers, in proposing the adjournment for so long a period, had been actuated by the consideration, amongst other important ones, that the Representatives of the people in Parliament would be at this moment employed, perhaps, more advantageously for their interests, in the particular counties and places they represented, than they would be even within those walls. Public duty, then, not personal convenience to his Majesty's Ministers, had been their object in the proposition respecting the adjournment. The Treasury Minute relative to barilla duties was not without a precedent. He would particularly refer to that of the 25th of February, 1825, authorizing the reduction of the duty on Sulphate of Quinine. Having that precedent, and there existing a particular reason why the duties on barilla should be lowered, the Government had taken the responsibility of doing that on itself.Mr. S. Rice
 said, that the trade had been acquainted, by the late Ministers, as early as last June, of their intention to lower the duties on barilla, and therefore he did not think that his right hon. friend was to blame for making the alteration. He was solicitous to know, as the late Ministers contemplated an alteration and revision of the stamp duties, if the present Ministers intended to follow up that projected alteration? Interested as he felt on the subject of marine and life insurances which he stood pledged to bring under the notice of the House, he was anxious to learn the intentions of Government on the subject.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 concurred in this recommendation but explained, that his hon. friend, the member for Romney, did not wish to urge the House to recommend a prosecution by the Attorney General. He only wished to attract the attention of the House to the subject, hoping that thereby a check might be given to similar publications. Now that he had accomplished this object, he hoped his hon. friend would withdraw his Motion.Mr. G. Price
 expressed a hope, that his Majesty's Government would, during the recess, take into consideration the distress which was so prevalent, and which was the cause of those seditious publications, and by relieving that distress, they would do more towards checking such violent appeals than any prosecution could effect.Lord Norreys
 had heard with much surprise the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Fitzgerald) below him, and thought the statement of the noble Lord opposite must have convinced even the right hon. Gentleman himself that the arrangement was a very proper and a very economical one. He trusted that the present Government would follow up measures of economy similar to that to which reference had been just made, and that the present was only the beginning of the simplification of the public accounts.Mr. Hume
l.86 in moving for certain Returns respecting the duties of the Recorder of Dublin, remarked, that the subject was one which deserved the consideration of the House and the Government. He had been taunted with gross ignorance the other evening respecting the appointment of the Recorder, by the right hon. Gentleman, the late Secretary for the Home Department, whom he was sorry he did not then see in his place. That right hon. Gentleman did not himself know what were the Sessions the Recorder attended, and in what different Courts he presided; and had he (Mr. Hume) been for four or five years Chief Secretary in Ireland, and had he
l.86Mr. Hume
87 entertained the same
87Mr. Quintin Dick
 was the Member who presented a petition against the Recorder; but he made no attack on him, he had merely declared, that the two offices, of Recorder of Dublin, and Member of that House, were incompatible. He denied, therefore, that he had displayed any want of courtesy to the absent Member.O'Gorman Mahon
 stated, that he had given notice of his Motion, and the censure, therefore, of the hon. Member was thrown away.Mr. Hume
 gave notice, that upon the second Thursday in February, he should move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire respecting the patents granted to the King's Printers in England and Scotland.Mr. Hume
 had given his Majesty's Government the credit of having abolished that office. He would willingly adopt the suggestion, and include it in his Motion. He wished to know from the noble Lord, whether it was a fact, that if the patent to the King's Printer were not challenged up to the 1st of January next, it would then be a good and valid one? It lay at present in some office in the Adelphi, open to public inspection; but he understood, that if no objection was made to it before the 1st of January, it would then be valid.Mr. Hume
 moved for various Returns to shew the Revenue derived from the sale of the Crown Lands and Clergy Revenues in Canada. The hon. Member expressed a hope that his Majesty's Government would turn its attention to the affairs of Canada. Great dissatisfaction at present prevailed in that colony.Mr. Hume
prima facie also moved for a Return of all Pensions granted in the Colonies. He would take that opportunity of saving, that he hoped that his Majesty's Government would direct its attention to the important colony of New South Wales. He believed that that colony was at present in a very dissatisfied state. He understood that the Government there had instituted eleven prosecutions against one individual; and that, since the introduction of Jury trials in that colony, that that individual had obtained seven convictions against the Government Gazette, for libels on his character. He wished to know whether it was a fact, that the Governor of that colony had suspended the Judge who had so fairly and properly exercised his functions in the instance of those trials? If the Governor of New South Wales had acted so, that was in itself prima facieMr. Hume
 was of opinion, that a great deal of oppression had been manifested in the case of Mr. Hall, who had been imprisoned very unnecessarily for a great length of time.Mr. Warburton
 hoped, that the noble Lord would take all the other cases with which Mr. Hall had been connected, as well as the one he had mentioned, into his serious consideration.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.92l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.91l.s.l.d.s.l.l. rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, with regard to the Pensions granted on the Civil List. The hon. Member commenced by remarking, that this was a subject which merited the serious attention of the Government and the country. He should confine his Motion, in the first instance, to the pension which had been granted to Mrs. Arbuthnot, in order to bring the general question, with respect to pensions granted where no services had been performed, hereafter under the consideration of the House. After stating the amount of salary to which the right hon. C. Arbuthnot was entitled, and of which he was in receipt as Secretary to the Treasury in 1823, the hon. Member stated, that at that period, while her husband filled that situation, a pension of 1,200l.l.l.l.l.92l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.91l.s.l.d.s.l.l.Mr. Guest
93l. in rising to second the motion of the hon. Member, begged to express his obligations to him, and also to say, that it was an irksome and unpleasant task for hon. Members to perform, when it became their duty to move for such returns as were contemplated by the motion of the hon. Member, as such a proceeding partook somewhat of the nature of a personal attack, though it was, in fact, of a very different character. He, however, felt that there was no other mode of putting a stop to the shameless drain occasioned, by such pensions, on the public purse; he had no hesitation in stating his conviction, that the acceptance of a pension of 1,20093l.Mr. Hume,
 considered, that the entire Pension List ought to be brought under the direct control of Parliament; he trusted that in future the list of pensions would be annually laid before the House; and had that course been pursued before, a great many names which now appeared in it would not have been found there. He felt unmitigated satisfaction in finding that the Duchess Dowager of Newcastle had relinquished her pension.Mr. Lennard
l. explained, that he had just been informed that the Earl of Mulgrave had not a pension of 3,000l.Mr. Guest
l.l.l.l.l.l. expressed his obligations to the hon. Member whose motion was before the House. He felt that it was a subject of great delicacy to single out the names of individuals who were in the receipt of pensions —still it was a duty, and as such was unavoidable. Amongst other names on that list, however, there was one which was super-eminent amongst them, that of Bathurst, a nobleman, who had held a high official situation for many years, and who, independent of the salary which he had received, had enjoyed for upwards of twenty years a sinecure of 2,700l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 explained. He never said that the right of granting pensions should be vested in the House of Commons: he only contended that, when granted by the Crown, they should afterwards be submitted to the House of Commons, and the reasons assigned for which they were granted.Mr. Lennard
 also explained. He had seen the name of Bathurst in the Civil List, and, in common with many other persons, was impressed with the idea that they were members of the noble Lord's family.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 was very anxious that the observations made on this subject should not convey a stronger impression abroad than was intended. It might be the duty of his Majesty's Government to investigate the Civil List, but he was quite persuaded they did not wish it to go abroad that they had made up their minds to advise his Majesty to withhold all assistance from those who had hitherto been placed on the Pension List. It should be recollected, in discussing this subject, that the pensions granted on the Civil List formed a part of the allowance made to his Majesty, in return for the hereditary revenues of the Crown. The course advised, of submitting all pensions to this House, might be right or wrong, but it was quite new, and ought to be adopted with caution.Mr. Keith Douglas
 said, that although it might be something of innovation, it would be a great improvement to submit all pensions to Parliament. This was proved by the fact, that the oldest and most intelligent Members of that House could not tell for what services the pensions had been granted. Pensions ought to be an honour, and not a disgrace; and if pensions were granted only for public services, he was sure Parliament would not be niggardly. He considered the appointment of a committee would be the preferable mode of determining whether any part of the pensions granted should be discontinued or not. He also observed, that leaving the consideration of pensions to Parliament was not such an innovation. Some of the largest grants ever made to individuals (those to the Duke of Wellington, for instance) were made by the votes, and with the concurrence of the Legislature.Mr. Wilks
l. said, that, though he had opposed the Duke of Wellington's Government, he was bound to say, that no Government had added less to the Pension List. He believed that the aggregate amount of pensions granted on the Civil List, under the Duke of Wellington's Government, did not exceed 10,000l.Sir Robert Inglis
9998hear, hear, from Sir J. Graham said, he had refrained from rising until then, expecting that some member of his Majesty's Government would speak on a point of such great constitutional importance as that which had been brought forward in this debate. His Majesty's Ministers were the proper guardians of the prerogatives and rights of the Crown, and their opinions ought to be stated on this point; and till then it was hardly decorous in him or other Members to obtrude any observations on the House. Some doctrines, however, had been put forward, upon which, as his Majesty's Ministers had neglected to reply to them, he felt called upon to offer a few observations. The hon. Member who brought forward this Motion, had confounded all the different classes of pensions—those granted by the authority of an Act. of Parliament, with those granted by his Majesty. His Majesty was legally intrusted with the power of granting pensions to a certain extent, and the question which had been mooted by hon. Members was, whether this class of pensions ought not in future to be voted by the House? Was that the conduct proper to be pursued? They had read little of the history of this country, of mankind, or of popular assemblies, who thought that such a power could with safety be vested—under a constitution at all monarchical—in any other branch of the Government than the Crown. He maintained, that the House was not the fit judge of the cases in which it might be proper for his Majesty to grant pensions—[9998hear, hear, from Sir J. GrahamMr. Herries
101100 agreed with some part of what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, that there ought to be some fund at the uncontrolled and irresponsible disposal of the Crown. But the amount of the specific sum so disposable would be the subject of discussion when the Civil List came to be settled by Parliament. He must say, however, that he believed that it would be found advantageous
101100Sir J. Graham
 moved, agreeably to notice, that the petition of Sir Harcourt Lees, presented on the 21st of December, for the repeal of the Act of Abjuration, be printed.Mr. Q. Dick
 objected to the Motion. It was contrary, he understood, to the rule adopted by the House, and if the petitions of individuals were to be printed at the expense of the public—a course which he would never recommend—they would adopt that method of making their sentiments known to the world.Mr. C. W. Wynn
103 moved for a Return "Of the number and names of those at present in the commission of the peace in each county, city, and town in Ireland; distinguishing in each the number and names of clergymen and laymen; also, distinguishing the names of the Magistrates in each department who have qualified to preside on Road Sessions, and specifying the number and nature of offices, (if any) civil or military, under the Crown or otherwise, held by each or any of such Magistrates, and the probable amount of salary or pay derived there from;—such Return to distinguish also the number and names of those Magistrates appointed under city or corporate authority, from those deriving
103O'Gorman Mahon
 doubted whether the whole of these Returns could be made out. The Clerk of the Peace could, undoubtedly, give the names of those who held commissions as Magistrates; but he had no means whatever of knowing what offices they might hold, or what salaries they might receive. It was impossible that the Returns could be made out, and he suggested, therefore, to the hon. Member the propriety of withdrawing his Motion.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 only wished the Returns to be made out as far as possible. He did not expect to obtain all the information that he required; but, let the Return be as defective as possible, he was the person, not the right hon. Gentleman, to complain of that.O'Gorman Mahon
 thought, that much difficulty would arise in ascertaining the meaning of the word "offices." For instance, an attorney was not an officer, and how an attorney could be described according to the Motion he did not know. Certainly, the Return could not be made without great difficulty.Mr. Hume
 did not expect to have been met by so many frivolous objections. The Motion would be intelligible enough to those by whom the Return must be made. Hon. Members could not expect that he should be answerable for their want of acquaintance with facts which were well known in Ireland.O'Gorman Mahon
 declared his intention of supporting the Bill.Mr. Hume
 gave notice that he would oppose the Bill in every stage.Lord Valentia
 wished to enter fully into the subject, when he was called to order byO'Gorman Mahon
 expressed his regret that the noble Lord should postpone the Bill. It appeared by the evidence before the Committee, that there was no reason whatever for allowing the growth of tobacco in Ireland, and he hoped, therefore, that the Bill would have been passed one stage that evening.Mr. Warburton
Order! order.!108107Question from Mr. Warburton."106105 could not recognise the principle upon which opposition was made to his Motion. He could not conceive upon what principle the Chancellor of the Exchequer, after having induced him, almost as a personal favour, to postpone his Motion on a previous night, should then call upon him to postpone it again. Had he divided the House at that time, he was sure that he should have carried the question by a strong majority; but in a spirit of courtesy towards the noble Lord, he postponed it; and he would then appeal to the candour of the House to decide, whether that postponement, under the peculiar circumstances attendant on it, ought not to be considered in the light of a virtual notice of his intention to bring-forward the Motion again, particularly as he then distinctly announced that intention. Since that time, he had new modelled the Motion in such a manner as he deemed best calculated (without relinquishing his own view) to do away with the objections of some of the extremely fastidious persons in that House, who, if their knowledge of the matter were inquired into, would probably be found to know as much about the subject of the Motion as those who at that moment, might be enjoying themselves in Kamtchatka. His late Majesty's Attorney-general (Sir Charles Wetherell) — one of the most sensitive plants he had ever met in that, or any other House— shrunk back, with well-feigned horror, some evenings ago, at the very name of his proposition. He had extracted from the Motion those words which were objectionable in the eyes of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and then he came to ask on that, the last night of the sitting of Parliament—the last moment to which his duty would allow him to postpone it— that the Return (with the respective adjuncts enumerated) of those who are in the commission of the peace for Ireland, should be laid on the Table of the House. Could it be alleged that there was anything unfair in that, or that those
Order! order.!108107Question from Mr. Warburton."106105O'Gorman Mahon
109—was speaking of a period to come—his hon. colleague was then member for Clare; and he said, that if he did not adopt a particular course, with respect to a particular measure, he would not and should not be the Member again. Would the hon. Gentleman have him, when speaking of the future, apply the signs of the present or of the past tense to the case of his hon. colleague, when in reality he meant he future, and distinctly said what he meant,—that he would not, and should not, be again member for Clare, unless he advocated the repeal of the
109O'Gorman Mahon
110 was obliged for the pains which the Speaker took to set him right with the House; he must repeat, however, that his hon. colleague, except upon such conditions as he had stated, would not, and should not, again be returned for Clare. In alluding thus to his colleague, he merely wished by it to indicate his consciousness of the sentiments of their constituents, and of those of many other county Members. The House would permit him to add, that when he made use of the observation which had been found fault with, he did not mean to include the whole House in the charge of indisposition to hear the truth. He merely meant to say, that there were some particular Members who had an antipathy to the truth, and who did not hesitate to interrupt those who spoke it, and of this the House had had proof, more than once during the evening There would, however, no longer be one man only, but twenty, calling for a repeal of the Union; the Table of the House would be crowded with petitions
110O'Gorman Mahon
 had read the motion of the hon. Gentleman since he proposed it, and finding it of a very different nature from what he expected to find it from the tenor of his speech, he should be happy to give it his support. He thought the hon. Member moved for a return of all Magistrates having offices,—such as attorneys and the like,—but his Motion only applied to offices of a public nature, and to which a salary was affixed—that is, in short, to all civil or military offices. To this he conceived there could be no well-grounded opposition; but to the Motion, as he previously understood it, there would be many objections. The hon. Member had charged him with calling "Question!" He was mistaken — he had not called question, but, if he had, the hon. Gentleman would excuse him for saying, that the discursive nature of his speech would have afforded a better justification in resorting to that custom than was generally the case.Mr. Warburton
 presented a Petition, signed by 100 persons, being Coopers, residing in the city of Cork, stating, that they are almost in a state of starvation, and praying the House to afford them the means of emigrating to British America. He begged leave to call the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to the subject, under the hope that they might take the case into consideration. The petitioners stated, that their present condition had been caused by the operation of an Act of Parliament, which passed the Session before last, for the purpose of regulating the butter trade of Ireland. They did not arraign the wisdom of the Legislature for passing that measure, but they wished to inform the House, that, in consequence of it, they had been reduced to a state of the greatest distress. There were no public institutions or funds at Cork for the relief of these poor persons; and the resources of the Mendicity Society were exhausted long ago. He agreed with the petitioners in their prayer, to remove them to our colonies in North America, which would be desirable, not only for the sake of humanity, but also because such a number of distressed persons might at any time occasion much mischief in a large commercial city like Cork.Mr. Callaghan
116 said, that the hon. Member had asked his Majesty's Ministers to take the subject into their consideration with a view to relieve the distress of those persons, and in almost the same speech he said, that he should most strenuously oppose the Repeal of the Union, which was the chief cause of the distress. The hon. Member called upon Government for assistance) because the
116O'Gorman Mahon
 replied, that the petitioners did not impute their miserable condition to the Union, they merely prayed for relief; nor did he bring any charges against the Government, or say that the measure which ruined them was not devised with a view to the permanent good of the country. They considered their condition in a proper point of view; as occasioned by the superabundance of labour compared with the amount of capital, or means of employment. To this statement they confined themselves, and prayed the House to save them from starvation, and afford them the means of emigrating. Such was the language made use of by the petitioners.Mr. Callaghan
 presented a Petition from certain land-owners in Westmoreland, stating, that they had lately been compelled to pay tithes for property belonging to them which had not been called upon to pay tithes for the space of 500 years before; and praying the House to fix a period, after which, if payment of tithes should not have been claimed, it should not be lawful to recover. The noble Lord said, he had always felt it to be a hardship that, after any lapse of time, tithes were recoverable, and he should like to know whether the hon. and learned Member opposite, whom he saw in his place, and who was a member of the commission to inquire into real property, meant to bring forward any measure on the subject.Lord Lowther
✶114 wished, as the hon. Member had challenged Irish Members, to give their opinions on the subject of the Union, to occupy the attention of the House for a very few minutes; but he also wished it to be distinctly understood, that he should not be induced to lend his support to the hon. Member in consequence of the philippic he had uttered against all those who would not support the Repeal of the Union. As he was the Member of a large commercial city, and the second place in importance in Ireland, he would declare his sentiments on this subject. He did not believe that the respectable portion of the Irish people were in favour of the Repeal; on the contrary, he considered them to be directly opposed to any such scheme. At the same time he could not conceal from himself, that many persons
✶114Mr. Callaghan
 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Belgrave-square, and its vicinity, praying for an early delivery of letters, and that the post should be two-penny instead of three-penny. The Post-office collected a large revenue from the inhabitants of this metropolis, and parties situated as the inhabitants of Pinlico were, lost half its benefits. The addition to the revenue made by the extra rate of postage was very small, and if it were to be continued, at least more accommodation should be given. The hon. Gentleman asked the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) whether any measure on this subject was in contemplation.Mr. A. Duncombe
 expressed his regret, that the Motion had been made in the absence of the Recorder, who, had he been present, could have given an answer, most likely to several of the statements of the hon. Member.Lord Tullamore
 expressed his regret, that he had been the innocent cause of calling forth such a strong expression of feeling. When the hon. member for Clare brought forward his motion, he thought that he had not given notice of it; but when he found that he had, and that the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, saw nothing objectionable in it, he was bound to withdraw his opposition to it.Lord Tullamore
 opposed the Motion, on the ground that as there was a change in the Chancellorship of Ireland just taking place, to make such a Return at present would be extremely inconvenient.Lord Tullamore
68 said, every one admitted, that he was friendly to the Ministers, yet it could not be denied, that many of those who made such professions were most forward to criticise their actions. They were like the hare with many friends —everybody was giving them advice, and
68Mr. Long Wellesley
 wished it to be understood, that he had expressly declared, that he did not want confidence in his Majesty's Ministers.Colonel Sibthorp
 concurred entirely in what had fallen from the gallant General. The state of the country was such that Members of Parliament ought to be on the spot where they were most likely to be useful, and to which they had been culled purposely at an early period. If there were no other business than presenting and discussing petitions, that alone, he thought, ought to be sufficient to induce them to re-assemble early. It would have been better certainly if the country gentlemen had remained in their own neighbourhood, but being away, they ought to remain and carry on the national business. He had no wish to embarrass the Government by making these observations, for he placed great confidence in his Majesty's Ministers.Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to know if the noble Lord thought the Clerk of the Deliveries a useless officer?Colonel Sibthorp
 wished to ask the noble Lord, as he observed that the hon. Member for Bletchingly had been appointed Clerk of the Ordnance, if it was the intention of the Government to fill up the other offices in the Ordnance, such as that of the Treasurer, as they fell vacant? If he understood that such was its intention, he would give notice of a motion for a committee to inquire into the state of that department, the number of persons employed, and the amount of their salaries.Colonel Sibthorp
 expressed great satisfaction at the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham). He was sure that speech would give equal satisfaction to the nation.Colonel Sibthorp
 presented a Petition from St. Alban's, for Reform. It would have been more numerously signed but for handbills that had been circulated in the town, falsely attributing sinister motives to him for getting the petition up. Influential persons had decryed it as tending to commotion, which had prevented many respectable men from putting their names to it. The hon. Member also presented a petition from certain individuals for promoting emigration, and was proceeding to address the House on the subject, but the interruption of several Members made him desist, though he declared that the subject was of great importance, and would sooner or later force itself on the attention of the House.Mr. C. Tennant
64 wished to take that opportunity,
64Mr. Ruthven
Order considered the subject of great importance, and he should, therefore, give notice—[OrderMr. Ruthven
 again attempted to address the House, but was called to order.Mr. Ruthven
 again expressed himself not satisfied with the answer relative to the Masters of Chancery, and gave notice, that after the recess, he would bring the matter before the House.Mr. Ruthven
 thought, public duty called on him to bring the subject under the notice of the House.Mr. Ruthven
 was of opinion, that the Motion carried something invidious on the face of it; and he should support the noble Lord in opposing it.Mr. Ruthven
113 was in hopes that the subject would have passed off without observation, for he was sure that what had passed that evening would not tend to allay the angry feelings which prevailed in Ireland. He hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would, during the recess, turn their attention seriously to the situation of Ireland, and bring forward some measure—not calculated, like that of the noble Lord, to excite disturbance, but to promote tranquility. He should be sorry to sink in the good opinion of his countrymen, but he was prepared to meet all the consequences of the course of conduct which he was resolved to pursue. He would, notwithstanding any language which might have the appearance of intimidation, do as he had hitherto done in the House— speak, honestly and fearlessly, his opinion; and he repeated then, as he had before stated, that any measure likely to lead to the separation of the two countries would meet with his most strenuous opposition. He was decidedly favourable to the Union, though he did not mean to say that it was impossible for circumstances to justify its
113Mr. Ruthven
66 deprecated the discussion. There was, he believed, but one opinion on the subject. There was no reason whatever why the noble Lord should vacate his place. He had executed the duties of his office with great credit to himself, and with great advantage to the public. The question might arise in another place, whether it was consistent with its privileges; but it ought not to be interfered with in that House. He hoped the hon.
66Sir E. B. Sugden
 remarked, that, from his experience, his testimony would bear out the noble Lord who had last spoken, with respect to receiving, with great caution, charges brought against individuals holding official situations in the colonies. He contended that, although it could not be said that the Sydney Gazette was altogether blameless in the transaction, still, were a balance to be struck between it and the Sydney Monitor, it would be found greatly against Mr. Hall, who was the editor of the latter, and who had published libels calculated to bring the Government into contempt, and to injure the Governor of the colony. The hon. Member who had brought forward the present Motion had, in one respect, been misinformed. He had urged the necessity of the appointment of a council at the colony of New South Wales, in order to assist the Governor by their deliberations. He begged to inform the hon. Member, that, in the year 1828, a bill was introduced into that House, by which a council was appointed: and, in conformity to the provisions of that bill, proper persons were selected to fill those responsible offices, without any regard to partiality in their choice.Mr. H. Twiss
 did not rise to oppose the Motion, but he thought in the present critical state of the country, a shorter period would be better. No one knew what crisis might arise in the mean time —no one knew what might be the state of the metropolis, or the state of foreign affairs; and he should, therefore, have preferred an adjournment for a shorter period, with an understanding, that no meeting should take place till the 3rd of February, unless some special cause arose for a more early meeting. After the House was adjourned there was no possibility of summoning it together again, and there was no knowing what might happen. He would recommend, that the House should only adjourn for a fortnight, with an understanding that if the country then remained tranquil, the House should be adjourned for a fortnight longer.General Gascoyne
 rose for the purpose of putting a question to the noble Lord, relative to Parliamentary Reform. He did not wish to call on the Ministers for any detail of the nature of the reform which they had in view; but he thought it was due to the House and the country that a question of such vast importance—a question on which the wishes and hearts of the nation were irrevocably fixed, ought to have a day fixed for its discussion in that. House. He did not put the question with any unfriendly feeling to his Majesty's Ministers, or with any view to show that he wanted confidence in them. In answer to calls from several Members, the hon. Member said, his question was, at what time, after the recess, it was the intention of Government to bring forward the question of reform?Mr. Briscoe
70 said, if there was any subject which could make him doubt the propriety of adjourning the House to the 3rd of February, it was the subject started by the hon. member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Slaney). The distress of the labouring classes was a most important subject, and ought to be taken into consideration as soon as possible. The proposal of the hon. member for Liverpool, he thought was, in his mind, objectionable; for it was hardly possible that the House of Commons, under the existing circumstances of distress in the different counties, could continue to adjourn over from fortnight to fortnight at a time, without creating in the minds of most persons a suspicion that Government considered things in a more alarming state than was warranted by the fact, and disseminating the idea of insecurity and danger. Dismissing, however, the subject of the adjournment, he could not avoid expressing his surprise that the Ministers had thought fit, by a Treasury Minute to make a great alteration with respect to an item of taxation, and yet, although Parliament was sitting, they had not thought it necessary to move any resolution in that House which would sanction such a proceeding. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. P. Thomson) had taken it on his own authority to reduce
70Mr. Calcraft
 would put it to his hon. friend, whether, after the exposition which the noble Lord had made of his own views, and of those of the Government, and after the pledge, that there was no unwillingness to prosecute where there was just cause, and that one prosecution had, in fact, already been commenced —after the intimation that this Motion would tend to defeat its own object —and, above all, when his hon. friend admitted the state of excitement which existed at present, and the great danger which there would be in bringing this Motion to a hostile division in the House; —he would humbly submit, whether it would not be better, both for his hon. friend's views, and the interests of the country, to withdraw the Motion, than to hazard a disagreement with Gentlemen, on the application of a principle, the validity of which they acknowledged as firmly as he did.Mr. Croker
83l.l.l.l.82 said, that in rising to move for copies of Treasury Minutes relating to the office of Vice-Treasurer of Ireland, he could assure the House, that he was not actuated by any feeling of a political nature, and still less by any feeling adverse to the Government. The call, however clamorous, which had been raised for the abolition of the office of Vice-treasurer of Ireland, was, in his opinion, founded in complete ignorance. He had endured much obloquy from it having been said that this office, which he had held, was a sinecure; and his object in moving for these Minutes was to show, that the office, far from being a sinecure, was an indispensable part of the Treasury, and connected with all the details of the receipt and expenditure of Ireland. He
83l.l.l.l.82Mr. M. Fitzgerald
97 said, the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Courtenay's) argument, as to Mr. Bathurst's family, proceeded entirely on the assumption that men in office were not adequately remunerated for their public services. That assumption was violently in collision with public opinion, and with the expressed opinion of his Majesty's present Government. It was very desirable that Ministers should give their attention to the Civil List, and, if possible, reduce it to a great extent; but though this might gain for them a little temporary popularity, he did not hesitate to tell Ministers that, if they contented themselves with any reductions they could make in the Civil List, they would show that they were not adequate to the urgency of the occasion which called them into office, and, so far from relieving the distress of the country, they would only add to its difficulties. He was desirous of referring to another point, on which some observations had been made a few nights ago. Something had been said of the Government appealing to the people, or, in other words, of a general election. It was only a few months since the people expressed their opinion by electing Representatives, and he therefore told the Ministers, that if they appealed to the people so soon again, it should be on some other grounds than that of gaining two or three votes, more or less, by bringing in Members to represent boroughs under the influence of Government. The people ought not to be appealed to twice within a few months on such a pretence. It would be to disgust the country by obtruding upon it the discreditable parts of the system of representation; and if Ministers adopted such a course, they would render themselves deeply responsible. If they appealed to the people, it
97Mr. Attwood
115 protested against the language used in the course of the debate, and also against the introduction of extraneous subjects into the discussion. He came down to the House with the intention of giving his strenuous opposition to the measure of the noble Lord, and that measure was postponed. He considered this act of Ministers as putting a complete stop to a species of cultivation in Ireland which was rapidly increasing. He was prepared to show, that the measure would occasion great distress in that country, and would not be at all beneficial to the revenue. As to the Repeal of the Union, he must say, whatever excitement might prevail in Ireland on the subject, that it
115Mr. Leader
cries of "general what?" gave notice, that shortly after the recess, he would move an humble Address to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased, to appoint a day for a general fast —[cries of "general what?"Mr. Perceval
95l.l.l.l.94 said, that was not the time to enter into a discussion of the Civil List, which would come more regularly under discussion when that subject was brought
95l.l.l.l.94Mr. Courtenay
 could not let the idea go abroad, that the hon. Member, as well as any other Irish Member, did not get a patient hearing on a subject connected with that country. He would tell the hon. member for Clare, that an Irish question was listened to in the House with as much attention as an English question. The insinuation that there was an unwillingness to listen to an Irish Member patiently, was without foundation. With respect to his observations respecting Irish Members being compelled in a short time to come forward and advocate a repeal of the Union, he would tell him, that some hon. friends of his, Representatives of places in Ireland, would be deterred by no threat from coming forward and stating their opinions manfully against the repeal of the Union. He was sure, that his Majesty's present Government would support that Union at all times, and would never consent to a separation of the two countries, and he believed that nearly every honest and enlightened man in the country would support them on that question.Mr. Fyler
 said, as the Motion was decidedly objected to, he would recommend the hon. Member to withdraw it, and give notice of his intention to submit it again on some future occasion.Mr. Spring Rice
7877 said, that if the hon. Gentleman brought forward the subject as one particularly deserving the attention of the House, he would find on examination that it was not in the habit of noticing such publications, unless they more particularly attacked its own rights and priviledges; but if he meant it as a reproach or censure upon the Attorney General, for neglecting to prosecute the publication he had quoted as a seditious libel, he could assure him, that he could not more condemn the omission of the Attorney General than he (Mr. Bulwer) applauded it. The hon. Gentleman would probably agree with him, that if the prosecution of this publication were to be followed by an acquittal, it would neither be advantageous to the country nor creditable to the Government. As the hon. Gentleman had described himself as unacquainted with the law of libel, perhaps he was ignorant that the law of libel such as it was laid down by the decision of Judges in arbitrary times, who, from the manner in which they rose to their office, were particularly attached to high prerogative, was very different from that which popular juries would consider to be the law, and would lend themselves to enforce. The number of cases, of late years, in which juries had come to a verdict very different from that to which the direction of the Judge would have produced in former times should always be a warning against prosecutions for libel. The hon. Member had surely not forgotten that famous parody, beginning,—"I believe in his Majesty's Ministry, &c." for which Mr. Hone was tried, as for a libel, and acquitted. He put it to the hon. Gentleman, whether it might not be argued that this publication was no libel at all? "No man," it might be said, "upon reading the whole of it, could conceive that the writer meant to say, that those burnings were productive of good, and therefore ought to be encouraged. If Mr. Cobbett's intentions had been seditious, would he have confined his argument to the promotion of fires? Certainly not; and the only view with which he could have been supposed to recommend fires, with a seditious intention, must have been, because he thought they would lead to rebellion, revolution, and change in the established form of Government. But so far from such ideas being encouraged, in the context of the alleged libel, he states, that he is in favour of the established form
7877Mr. Bulwer
 also supported the prayer of the petition, and said, that there was no town in Scotland better entitled to express its opinion and its wishes.Mr. Kennedy
 said, the hon. Member had already spoken on the petition being brought up, and he was out of order to address the House a second time on the same petition. He could not introduce his notice as a parenthesis, into the motion of another hon. Member.The Speaker
 who informed him, that the Bill was withdrawn, and that there was no question before the House.The Speaker,
 called the hon. Member to order. The hon. Baronet had very satisfactorily explained the reason of his interruption. It arose from a critical distinction between the terms shall and will, and to English ears, a meaning was often attached to the one, which would not apply to the other. The hon. Baronet in this instance, thought that the word "shall" implied a menace. He was speaking to order, he did not interrupt the hon. Member for any other reason than to set him right with the House. Having said this upon the subject of the call to order, he thought he need hardly point out to the hon. member for Clare, that he should not attribute to the House a desire to close its ears against the truth. He was quite sure, that the hon. Member would feel, on reflection, that to attribute such a disposition to the House, was not only not in order, but not quite correct.The Speaker
 was surprised to hear from the right hon. Baronet that Ministers had nothing to do with the great constitutional question which had been brought under discussion. Had they remained wholly silent, he should have supposed that they meant to propose that the Crown should receive no sum to grant for pensions; and he was, therefore, glad to hear that they meant to steer what the right hon. Baronet called a middle course. The right hon. Baronet threatened to appeal to the nation, should Ministers be defeated by the House; he forgot that such defeat might be attended by circumstances which would deprive the present Administration of the power to make such an appeal.Sir G. Clerk
s.s.l. remarked, that the precedent of the 25th of February, 1825, was one which could not be considered applicable. It removed only certain duties on the sulphate of quinine, an article then recently discovered, and on which the duty could not much exceed, perhaps, 100s.s.l.Sir George Clerk
71 after expressing a hope that the noble Lord, on the part of Government, would disavow the proceeding
71Mr. George Robinson,
96 said, that as no excuse was made, and nothing said in extenuation
96Mr. Robinson
 said, that he felt the evils of this subject very strongly, but he thought the matter would be better in the hands of the noble Lord than in his. If, however, the noble Lord should decline the task, he would himself bring forward a motion on the subject.Mr. John Campbell
 said, the Government had not made a Peer a Master in Chancery but a Master in Chancery had, by the course of nature been made a Peer. In that circumstance there was no reason to find fault with any body.Sir M. W. Ridley
 approved of the plan of the hon. and gallant Member, for adjourning the House from time to time, in order to watch the occurrences that might arise in the present state of the country.Sir Hussey Vivian
: the hon. Member said, that his hon. colleague should not be returned. If, however, he intended only to say that he would not be returned, there was certainly nothing irregular in the expression; but to say that an hon. Member should not be returned, implied a future threat.Sir Richard Vyvyan
111 had already told the hon. Member, when he shewed him his proposition,
111Lord Althorp
 rose to postpone the Bill for prohibiting the growth of Tobacco in Ireland, till after the recess. His Lordship fixed Thursday, February 3rd, for discussing the measure.Lord Althorp
 observed, that he had fixed it for the first day the House would meet after the recess. He had no intention whatever of giving up the Bill.Lord Althorp
104 said, that it was certainly the usual custom of the House, when a decided objection was made to a motion for Returns which was expected to be agreed to as a matter of course, to withdraw it for the time, and to give notice for some future day. On looking at the Motion,
104Lord Althorp
 said, there was no plan under the consideration of his Majesty's Government, but the subject was; and if the Administration could devise any plan to remedy the evil, it would be the duty of Ministers to do so.Lord Althorp
 said, that it was not his intention to bring out the budget until the Estimates had been voted, but he would not fail to bring the financial state of the country under consideration at an early period after the recess.Lord Althorp
8079 said, that the question as to the expediency of prosecutions for libel was, in his opinion, and, he was sure, in the opinion of the best judging persons in the country, better intrusted to the discretion of the Ministers of the Crown, than a proper subject for discussion in that House. There might, indeed, be occasions on which, if the House of Commons had no confidence, that discretion would be properly exercised. A case might arise for the independent Members of that House to call for a prosecution; but even then, he thought the better course
8079Lord Althorp
 said, the bill for that object had been found in the office, and it would be proceeded with as soon as convenient after the re-assembling of Parliament.Lord Althorp
85l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.84 said, that he had known and acted with the right hon. Gentleman too long to suppose that he could be actuated by any sinister motive in bringing forward this Motion. The right hon. Gentleman had taken two views of this subject; the one was economical —the other political. Upon these, with the permission of the House, he would say a few words. For the first, he must say at once, that he did not understand the economical argument of the right hon. Gentleman, and therefore it would, perhaps, be better for him to state shortly what had been done, and what saving had been effected. He had always been of opinion, that the office of Vice-treasurer of Ireland was altogether unnecessary, and when he entered the Ministry that opinion was confirmed; for, upon making inquiries respecting it at the Treasury, he was told that all the duties of the office were performed by Mr. Mitchell, the chief clerk. His first impression was, that it would be better and more economical to continue Mr. Mitchell
85l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.84Lord Althorp
 inquired, why his hon. friend did not include the King's Printer in Ireland, in the motion of which he had given notice?Lord Althorp
 did not possess any knowledge with regard to the point of law which the hon. Member had mooted, but he would make an inquiry upon the subject.Lord Althorp
67 said, by the courtesy of the hon. Gentleman who had a motion on the books, and who had consented to allow him to take precedence, he rose to make the Motion of which notice was given the day before yesterday, for the Adjournment of the House. It would be convenient, he believed, for Members then to return to the country. The period for which it was first intended to move the Adjournment was till the 8th of February, but, on consideration, the Ministers thought the period might be somewhat shortened, and therefore they proposed, that the Adjournment should be till Thursday, February 3rd. He had heard nothing which should make him doubt that the House might then safely and with propriety adjourn, nor did he see anything in the circumstances of the country which should raise up objections to the adjournment, on account of the public business, being for the length of time he had proposed. Gentlemen would recollect, that it was usual for the House to meet at the beginning of February, and at that time the King's Speech was to be delivered, the Address was to be agreed to and adopted, and several days must pass before business could begin. On the present occasion, the House would be ready to begin public business immediately, and there could be no danger that it would not get through that business before the end of the summer. With respect to the situation of the country, there was nothing in that to induce him to make the adjournment shorter. He doubted, indeed, in the present critical situation of the country, whether Gentleman might not be of more benefit to the people by returning home, than by staying in town, and the objections
67Lord Althorp
 could not, under the present circumstances, fix any day. He could, however, assure the hon. Gentleman, that it was the most anxious wish of his Majesty's Ministers to introduce to that House the proposition they intended to make on the subject of Parliamentary Reform. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, that the Administration would, at a very early period after the recess, fix a day for bringing forward the question.Lord Althorp
 replied, that when the House again met he should be able to give the hon. Gentleman a satisfactory answer.Lord Althorp
65 begged to remind his hon. friend, that the Government had not filled up the place of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance. An inquiry had already taken place before the Finance Committee, as to the necessity of keeping up the offices he had alluded to; but the decision was reserved till after the inquiry should have been made into the utility of the offices of Paymaster-general, Treasurer of the Navy, and other offices. When that question
65Lord Althorp
 said, the fact had been properly stated by the hon. Member; but it was not the intention of the Government to take any step in consequence. He was not aware that there was any law to prevent a Peer holding such a situation. At all events, if there was anything improper in a Peer being a Master of Chancery, if that was derogatory to the privileges of the other House, it was not the House of Commons, but the House of Lords that ought to take cognizance of the subject.Lord Althorp
 said, that this subject was at this time, under the consideration of his noble friend, at the head of the Post-office. He was anxious that the greatest economy should be practised; but it was not inconsistent with economy that duties should be well performed; and part of these duties was, that letters should be delivered speedily in every part of the metropolis. It might not, however, be deemed unfair that rales should vary in proportion to distances. The question, however, was now under consideration, and he hoped, by the time they met again, that a satisfactory arrangement would be entered into.Lord Althorp
Cobbetts Political Register,corruptio optimi pessima est.75Quousque tandem abutere, Cutilina, patentia nostra"But, short of death, how great, merciful God, have been the sufferings of the labourers and their families! And is not the parish allowance slow starvation? Has not this been proved over and over again, before the committees of the House of Commons? Has it not been proved, before those committees, that the allowance for a man at work has not been one-half of what is allowed to the felons in the jails? Has it not been proved be-fore those committees, that a working man, his wife and three children, are allowed less to live on than is paid to one common foot soldier, who has clothing, fuel, and lodging into the bargain, which the labourer and his family have not? And if this be their horrible state, will this Ministry shed their blood? No: I fear not to assert, that they will not shed their blood; let the hell-hounds of loan-jobbers and News cry for blood as long as they may. No: this will not be done. The course of these ill-used men has been so free from ferocity, so free from any thing like bloody-mindedness! They have not been cruel even to their most savage and insolent persecutors. The most violent thing that they have done to any person has not amounted to an attempt on the life or limb of the party; and in no case, but in self-defence, except in the cases of the two hired overseers in Sussex, whom they nearly trundled out of the carts, which those hirelings had had constructed for them to draw like cattle. Had they been bloody, had they been cruel, then it would have been another matter; had they burnt people in their beds, which they might so easily have done; had they beaten people wantonly, which has always been in their power; had they done any of these things, there would have been some plea for severity; but they have been guilty of none of these things: they have done desperate things, but they were driven to desperation. All men except the infamous stock-jobbing race, say, and loudly say, that their object is just; that they ought to have that which they are striving for; and all men, except that same hellish crew, say, that they had no other means of obtaining it."7473"In the meanwhile, however, the parsons are reducing their tithes with a tolerable degree of alacrity! It seems to come from them like drops of blood from the heart; but it comes; and it must all come now; or England will never again know even the appearance of peace. 'Out of evil comes good.' We are not, indeed, upon that mere maxim, ' to do evil that good may come from it.' But without entering at present into the motives of the working people, it is unquestionable that their acts have produced good, and great good too. They have been always told, and they are told now, and by the very parson that I have quoted above, that their acts of violence, and particularly the burnings, can do them no good, but add to their wants, by destroying the food that they would have to eat. Alas! they know better; they know that one thrashing-machine takes wages from ten men; and they also know, that they should have none of this food; and that potatoes and salt do not burn! Therefore, this argument is not worth a straw. Besides, they see and feel that the good comes, and comes instantly too. They see that they do get some bread in consequence of the destruction of part of the corn; and while they see this, you attempt in vain to persuade them, that that which they have done is wrong. And as to one effect, that of making the parsons reduce their tithes, it is hailed as a good by ninety-nine hundredths even of men of considerable property; while there is not a single man in the country who does not clearly trace the reduction to the acts of the labourers, and especially to the fires; for it is to the terror of these, and not the bodily force, that has prevailed. To attempt
73The Political RegisterThe Political Register.72 in rising, according to his notice, to direct the attention of the House to the inflammatory language contained in one of the political publications of the day, entreated them to grant him their indulgence while he attempted to perform what to him appeared to be a very important duty. He did not know whether the inflammatory language to which he alluded was or was not contrary to the law of the country; but on the purport and tendency of it there could be no quest ion; and he thought it was the duty of that House, if it was not within the immediate province of the law-officers of the Crown, to adopt some measure with respect to it; and at all events to record their sense of the mischiefs it must produce. The language to which he wished to draw the attention of the House was to be found in the publication
Cobbetts Political Register,corruptio optimi pessima est.75Quousque tandem abutere, Cutilina, patentia nostra"But, short of death, how great, merciful God, have been the sufferings of the labourers and their families! And is not the parish allowance slow starvation? Has not this been proved over and over again, before the committees of the House of Commons? Has it not been proved, before those committees, that the allowance for a man at work has not been one-half of what is allowed to the felons in the jails? Has it not been proved be-fore those committees, that a working man, his wife and three children, are allowed less to live on than is paid to one common foot soldier, who has clothing, fuel, and lodging into the bargain, which the labourer and his family have not? And if this be their horrible state, will this Ministry shed their blood? No: I fear not to assert, that they will not shed their blood; let the hell-hounds of loan-jobbers and News cry for blood as long as they may. No: this will not be done. The course of these ill-used men has been so free from ferocity, so free from any thing like bloody-mindedness! They have not been cruel even to their most savage and insolent persecutors. The most violent thing that they have done to any person has not amounted to an attempt on the life or limb of the party; and in no case, but in self-defence, except in the cases of the two hired overseers in Sussex, whom they nearly trundled out of the carts, which those hirelings had had constructed for them to draw like cattle. Had they been bloody, had they been cruel, then it would have been another matter; had they burnt people in their beds, which they might so easily have done; had they beaten people wantonly, which has always been in their power; had they done any of these things, there would have been some plea for severity; but they have been guilty of none of these things: they have done desperate things, but they were driven to desperation. All men except the infamous stock-jobbing race, say, and loudly say, that their object is just; that they ought to have that which they are striving for; and all men, except that same hellish crew, say, that they had no other means of obtaining it."7473"In the meanwhile, however, the parsons are reducing their tithes with a tolerable degree of alacrity! It seems to come from them like drops of blood from the heart; but it comes; and it must all come now; or England will never again know even the appearance of peace. 'Out of evil comes good.' We are not, indeed, upon that mere maxim, ' to do evil that good may come from it.' But without entering at present into the motives of the working people, it is unquestionable that their acts have produced good, and great good too. They have been always told, and they are told now, and by the very parson that I have quoted above, that their acts of violence, and particularly the burnings, can do them no good, but add to their wants, by destroying the food that they would have to eat. Alas! they know better; they know that one thrashing-machine takes wages from ten men; and they also know, that they should have none of this food; and that potatoes and salt do not burn! Therefore, this argument is not worth a straw. Besides, they see and feel that the good comes, and comes instantly too. They see that they do get some bread in consequence of the destruction of part of the corn; and while they see this, you attempt in vain to persuade them, that that which they have done is wrong. And as to one effect, that of making the parsons reduce their tithes, it is hailed as a good by ninety-nine hundredths even of men of considerable property; while there is not a single man in the country who does not clearly trace the reduction to the acts of the labourers, and especially to the fires; for it is to the terror of these, and not the bodily force, that has prevailed. To attempt
73The Political RegisterThe Political Register.72Mr. A. Trevor,
 briefly replied. He wished only to notice the observation of the hon. member for Wilton, (Mr. Bulwer) as to what fell from him on a former occasion. He did say, that the slaves of the colonies were in a better condition than the peasantry of this country, but he meant as regarded food, clothing, and lodging, and that they, notwithstanding the charitable rhodomontades of some Gentlemen, could not be benefited by changing situations with our peasantry. He had no wish, however, by the statement of what he conceived to be a fact, to excite discontent in the minds of our own people, but to allay the agitation of another subject, and of other people. As the sense of the House appeared to be against him, he agreed to withdraw the Motion.Mr. A. Trevor
88 said, that the state of Canada was at that moment under the serious consideration of the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department, and
88Lord Howick
 said, that all he had stated with regard to the case of the bush-ranger had been verified by the report of Mr. Justice Dowling, who presided at the trial of Captain Wright.Lord Howick
89 observed, that the hon. Member must be aware that there was a great degree of excitement and party spirit in the colony of New South Wales. The circumstances of that colony were very different from those of others, and what
89Lord Howick
112O'Gorman Mahon stated, in addition to what his noble friend had said, in answer to the observations of the hon. member for Clare, that although his Majesty's Ministers were anxious for his support, as well as that of every other hon. Member, yet if the hon. member for Clare supposed that they would be deterred from proceeding with any measure they might deem advisable, from the threat of his opposition, he would find himself much mistaken; and more so, if he thought, by the menace which he had thrown out, that he would obtain his object. [112O'Gorman MahonLord Palmerston
7hear, hearhear, hear6hear5 rose:—7hear, hearhear, hear6hear5The Duke of Buccleugh
1098 seconded the Address.
1098Lord Saltoun
hear34hear, hearhear33"Me me adsum qui feci: in me convertite ferrum."32hear, hear31l.,l.30.l.292827 considered the language used in the Speech to be quite unworthy of our most gracious sovereign, and were only the expressions of those who now formed his councils. They alone must be answerable for them. On the whole, he must say that they were a most insulting, unfeeling, and cold-blooded allusion to the distresses of the country. He had felt a painful sensation in reading them; especially the confusion and incapacity manifested in the words which were put into the mouth of the sovereign, as to the impossibility of relieving the distresses.
hear34hear, hearhear33"Me me adsum qui feci: in me convertite ferrum."32hear, hear31l.,l.30.l.292827The Earl of Caernarvon
hearhear42hear said, notwithstanding the tone in which the noble duke had thought proper to comment upon the observations of the noble earl (Carnarvon), he contended that there never was a session in which parliament waited with so much patience and composure for information respecting our foreign relations as the last session. Some of the most important papers, relating to the Portugal affair, were not laid before this House till the close of the last session. The noble earl, in his opinion, had taken a proper opportunity to canvass these papers to-night, for this was in fact the first opportunity which had offered for such an inquiry. Could it be said that the notice of them was unseasonable now, when government were about, by their own confession, to recognise Don Miguel? [hearhear42hearThe Marquis of Clanricarde
hear.—Steps?—[hearLord Holland
44hearlaughter43.—I do not rise to prolong this discussion, but to have, if I can, a clear understanding of the meaning of the noble lord's expression. If I understand him rightly, he says that, when the happy period arrives when we are to acknowledge as king of Portugal that usurper whose whole course has been marked by the greatest hostility and perfidy to this country, parliament is to be made acquainted with all about it; but is it to be before or after, for there lies all the difference? In the early part of his short address, the noble lord used the expression "steps taken," which he afterwards qualified, by saying that the information
44hearlaughter43Lord Holland
5554 wished to state shortly his reasons why he should vote against the noble earl's Amendment. It appeared from the speech with which that Amendment was introduced, that it was the object of the noble earl to induce the House to do all in its power again to plunge the country into what he could not but consider one of the greatest evils that could await any nation—certainly one of the greatest evils this country had ever endured—an unlimited issue of paper circulation. If the first step were taken, it would lead to subsequent steps, against which he felt it his duty to guard this House and the public. He knew of no extension that was not in danger of amounting to an unlimited issue. He did not know, however, if he should not have supported the Amendment, had not the Speech admitted distress, and in terms which implied a promise that inquiry should take place upon the subject, and which the country had a right to expect. It existed unquestionably to a lamentable extent; but he concurred in the recommendation that it should receive the most cautious inquiry. He thought it necessary to make these few observations in explanation of
5554The Marquis of Lansdowne
46 said, he had never expected that the noble Earl would ask his advice upon any subject, for he appeared to take all his measures without consulting parliament or indeed any body else. In allusion to some peculiar expressions that had fallen from the noble Earl, he wished to say a few words merely in explanation. The noble Earl had said that he would not ask advice as to the time of re-opening the relations with Portugal; but he trusted parliament would not wait till the noble earl chose to give information, but would of itself call upon ministers to lay the documents connected with the subject on the table. With respect to Don Miguel, he was not merely a usurper, but he had seized the throne in spite of the promises he had made. He had directly broken faith with us; and it was not merely because he was a usurper that he (Lord Holland) was unwilling to acknowledge Don Miguel. That prince was a far different sort of a person from Napoleon, who was no usurper, but had been called to the government of France, in the same manner as the royal family of this kingdom, by the voice of parliament, and the representatives of the people; and therefore he had been disposed to acknowledge him as the king of France. The noble earl had said that it was the interest of this country to maintain a connexion with Portugal. It then
46Lord Holland
47 said, he would give with heartfelt satisfaction his support to the Amendment to the Address, the character and nature of which had been much misrepresented by the noble duke opposite. The proposed Amendment called on the House to take into its serious consideration the present distressed situation of the country—distress admitted on all hands to exist, and from which all interests were suffering—and to consider what remedies ought to be applied to it: it did not allude to any specific remedy. He felt regret at the slight allusion made in his Majesty's Speech to the unparalleled distress existing in the country. The slightness of the allusion might have arisen from the advisers of the Crown, whose duty it was to inform his Majesty of the state of the country, having either withheld information or misrepresented it, or told his Majesty that it was not in the power of Parliament to afford relief; but if the House neglected to take into consideration the distressed state of the country, it would be neglecting its duty to the public. It might cause the country to think that the House was unable to legislate for the public good; he was sorry to say that he saw a spirit for forming associations springing up in different parts of the country, not for the purpose of laying the grievances of the people before the Parliament, but to propose remedies of their own, and to redress their own wrongs; and if their lordships neglected to inquire into the distress of the country, they would
47The Earl of Winchilsea
525150hearhear, hear, hear49For none who taste of woe have e'er deserv'd it more."Unmov'd we hear you rant, and howl, and roar;So now shall pity leave you in your need,What reck'd ye—you but gain'd an ample store.Even by your war made slavish, lean, and poor;A sturdy swain deprived of his meed,Hind paid with rags, and troops to Walcheren sent.You saw your peasants droop—your soldiers die;But then with flinty heart and tearless eye,Time was, the coming mischief to prevent,And fill our Senate with your senseless cry?Of grinding taxes and of falling rent,What boots it now to raise a loud lament"Ye ruined squires and scathed nobility;48a laugh then rose.—He found it to be absolutely necessary to move an amendment of his own; [525150hearhear, hear, hear49For none who taste of woe have e'er deserv'd it more."Unmov'd we hear you rant, and howl, and roar;So now shall pity leave you in your need,What reck'd ye—you but gain'd an ample store.Even by your war made slavish, lean, and poor;A sturdy swain deprived of his meed,Hind paid with rags, and troops to Walcheren sent.You saw your peasants droop—your soldiers die;But then with flinty heart and tearless eye,Time was, the coming mischief to prevent,And fill our Senate with your senseless cry?Of grinding taxes and of falling rent,What boots it now to raise a loud lament"Ye ruined squires and scathed nobility;48a laughLord King
53 said, he preferred the original motion of the noble Duke to the amendment of the noble Earl, or to that of his noble friend near him (Lord King). The Address did not preclude investigation; on the contrary, it invited it. It only exhorted their lordships—a recommendation in which he fully concurred—to proceed with caution and prudence; for if they held out to the people, suffering as they were, a pledge or prospect of immediate relief by any of the nostrums which were proposed, they would be doing mischief instead of good. He rose principally for the purpose of noticing an omission in the Speech of the Lords Commissioners. He observed that it contained no mention of Ireland. He admitted that much had been done for that part of the kingdom by his noble friend opposite (Wellington), but much remained still to be done. He should not, however, intrude upon their lordships with that subject at so late an hour, and the more particularly
53Earl Darnley
The 26 said: but for the line of argument pursued by the noble viscount, especially on the subject of the wool-trade and duty, he should not on the present occasion have trespassed on their lordships' attention. The noble duke declared that he had only named the wool question because he thought that the wool-trade had been unfairly excepted from the general rule, and was not protected in the same ratio as others. He could refer to papers to show that it was not equally protected with others, he guarded against going into the subject of free trade, and had expressed no opinion on it, and therefore he ought not to have been charged with improperly referring to our ancestors' conduct on that subject. There was now
26Duke of Richmond
25hear, hear24hear23cheershear22bona fide2120hear19hear said:—My lords, although it is my intention to support the Address proposed by the noble duke, and to oppose the Amendment, I beg to assure the noble earl, that among the many considerations which have induced me to take that course, cannot be reckoned any insensibility to the distresses I know and feel to prevail to so great an extent, and which, were it within our power, it is clearly within our duty to redress. I feel, if I were to acquiesce in the Amendment, I should only be lending myself to a delusion. [25hear, hear24hear23cheershear22bona fide2120hear19hearViscount Goderich
45hear, from Lord Holland said, he could state to the noble baron, that whenever his Majesty's ministers thought proper to advise their sovereign to remove diplomatic relations with Portugal, they should not ask his advice as to the course that ought to be adopted. Their lordships might depend upon being furnished with the fullest information—with information which he trusted would fully justify the government in every step that had been taken. The noble lord, who never spoke of Don Miguel but in terms of strong vituperation and almost of horror, [45hear, from Lord HollandThe Earl of Aberdeen
hear, hear, from the Opposition.—What I mean to say is, that before any thing is done, parliament will be furnished with information tending to explain and justify the advice which we may give, [hear, hear, from the OppositionThe Earl of Aberdeen
 explained. No advantage was intended to be taken of the House with respect to the negotiation with Don Miguel because their lordships might concur in this Address. Their lordships might rest assured that all due information would be laid before them before any steps were taken in that recognition—The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, he wished, in explanation, to observe previously to the conclusion of the debate, that he had meant to represent that there was but one of two alternatives open; either to extend the currency, or to return, as had been wished by a large public meeting, to the expenditure of the country previously to the French revolutionary war.Earl Stanhope
 explained.—If the noble duke had done him the honour to attend to his Amendment, he would have found that it did not pledge the House to the introduction of the question which the noble duke imagined. It only went to this extent, to call upon the House to inquire into the cause of the distress—the existence of which was not disputed—and to administer speedy relief. If the House neglected its duty, and failed to inquire into the distresses of the country, feelings of contempt, on the part of the people, towards their lordships, would naturally arise.Earl Stanhope
1817hear16hear15laughhearhear14hearhear, hear13cheers, and a laughhear, hear12cheershear, hearterra incognita11hear said:—My Lords, I should consider it a base dereliction of my duty not to take this, the earliest, opportunity, of stating my opinion to your lordships. Under a state of difficulty and distress, universal in extent, and unequalled in intensity, it behoves your lordships to address the Throne, not in the language of compliment, but of truth; discharging with decision and firmness our duty to our country, for the benefit of which we have received political power. I am never disposed to treat any of the speeches from the Throne with disrespect, but I must speak plainly of this. A speech, I must say, more inept and more inappropriate was never delivered from the Throne. In the country there was unusual distress, universal in its extent, unprecedented in its degree, intolerable in its pressure. After congratulating Parliament upon the close of the war in Turkey, we are informed that distress prevails amongst the agricultural and manufacturing classes in "some" parts of the United Kingdom. Surely it would have been much more correct for his Majesty to have told us that unexampled distress prevails in every class, and every interest J [1817hear16hear15laughhearhear14hearhear, hear13cheers, and a laughhear, hear12cheershear, hearterra incognita11hearEarl Stanhope
 explained.—He denied that allusion to Ireland was omitted on account of the absence of particular noble lords, and declared, that although the situation of that country did not require such a notice, its situation had not escaped the attention of his Majesty's government, who intended to introduce a measure connected with it in the course of the session.The Duke of Wellington
41hearlhearl.hearhear40hear£65,100,000Total
£65,100,000Total8,000,000Silver
8,000,000Silver28,000 000Gold
28,000 000Gold9,200,000Country-bank notes
9,200,000Country-bank notes£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£65,100,000Total
£65,100,000Total8,000,000Silver
8,000,000Silver28,000 000Gold
28,000 000Gold9,200,000Country-bank notes
9,200,000Country-bank notes£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£19,900,000Bank of England notes£64,000,000Total
£64,000,000Total7,000,000Silver
7,000,000Silver4,000,000Gold
4,000,000Gold23,000,000Country-bank notes
23,000,000Country-bank notes£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£64,000,000Total
£64,000,000Total7,000,000Silver
7,000,000Silver4,000,000Gold
4,000,000Gold23,000,000Country-bank notes
23,000,000Country-bank notes£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£30,000,0000Bank of England notesl39Hear, and Yes, from the Opposition.hearhear38hear. No, from the Opposition37hear, hear, from Lord Hollandhear3635.— If, my lords, I could entertain any doubt as to the propriety of the determination which I had formed not to refer to those points of the motion of my noble friend near me, relative to foreign affairs, in answer to noble lords opposite—1 say, my lords, if I had ever harboured any such doubts, they would be entirely removed by the latter parts of the speech of the noble earl (Carnarvon) who has just sat down. The noble earl, instead of referring to those parts in his Majesty's Speech, and in the Address of my noble friend, which have relation to the transactions of the present year, has found it necessary to refer to the history of the last two years, in order to find ground of blame against his Majesty's government. In the very last session of parliament I declared my earnest anxiety that your lordships would be pleased to discuss the very question which the noble earl has taken advantage of this night's discussion to introduce to your consideration—taken advantage of to introduce, without notice to any one concerned, or opportunity given them to consult the documents, that we might see whether the noble earl quoted them correctly, or whether any others were necessary to the elucidation of those transactions to which he referred. It was not to those transactions that the noble earl addressed himself, but to certain papers for which he had
41hearlhearl.hearhear40hear£65,100,000Total
£65,100,000Total8,000,000Silver
8,000,000Silver28,000 000Gold
28,000 000Gold9,200,000Country-bank notes
9,200,000Country-bank notes£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£65,100,000Total
£65,100,000Total8,000,000Silver
8,000,000Silver28,000 000Gold
28,000 000Gold9,200,000Country-bank notes
9,200,000Country-bank notes£19,900,000Bank of England notes
£19,900,000Bank of England notes£64,000,000Total
£64,000,000Total7,000,000Silver
7,000,000Silver4,000,000Gold
4,000,000Gold23,000,000Country-bank notes
23,000,000Country-bank notes£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£64,000,000Total
£64,000,000Total7,000,000Silver
7,000,000Silver4,000,000Gold
4,000,000Gold23,000,000Country-bank notes
23,000,000Country-bank notes£30,000,0000Bank of England notes
£30,000,0000Bank of England notesl39Hear, and Yes, from the Opposition.hearhear38hear. No, from the Opposition37hear, hear, from Lord Hollandhear3635The Duke of Wellington
, perceiving from his Majesty's Speech that the final settlement of the affairs of Greece was not yet accomplished, should take an early opportunity to call on their Lordships to express an opinion on the subject; and he then rose to give notice of his intention, and to move that their Lordships should be summoned for Friday next. If he consulted his own convenience he should fix a more distant day; but as he apprehended the settlement would soon be accomplished, to do justice to the motion it was necessary to submit it to their Lordships on an early day. He had not yet settled in his own mind what would be the words of his motion, but it would be in the form of a resolution to this effect:—"Resolved, That no plan for the pacification of Greece can be approved as advantageous, or as honourable to his Majesty's Crown, which does not give to that country a territory sufficient to maintain a national defence,Lord Holland
"My Lords:—I thank your Lordships, for your loyal and dutiful Address; and I rely with great confidence upon your zealous co-operation in all measures calculated to improve the condition of my subjects, and to maintain the honour and high character of the country." presented his Majesty's Answer to their Lordships Address; it was as follows:—"My Lords:—I thank your Lordships, for your loyal and dutiful Address; and I rely with great confidence upon your zealous co-operation in all measures calculated to improve the condition of my subjects, and to maintain the honour and high character of the country."The Duke of Montrose
, by command of his Majesty, presented the following ORDER of the KING IN COUNCIL for consolidating the several laws recently made for improving the condition of the Slaves in his Majesty's Colonies of Trinidad, Berbice, Demerara, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good Hope, and Mauritius.Earl Bathurst
248 presented a petition from the nobility, gentry, clergy, and freeholders of the county of Cumberland, complaining of distress, and praying for relief. The noble Lord stated, that the petition had been agreed upon at a county meeting, the high sheriff in the chair; that it was signed by two hundred and fifty respectable gentry and yeomanry; and that it earnestly prayed their Lordships to take
248The Earl of Lauderdale
253hear252hear251250249 said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the present state of the affairs of the East-India Company, and into the trade between Great Britain, the East-Indies, and China. He begged in the outset to assure their Lordships that his Majesty's Government were as entirely free from all preconceived opinions or impressions on this subject as Parliament itself; that they approached this important inquiry with minds perfectly unbiassed; that there was no desire to hold back or conceal any thing on their part, but, on the contrary, the utmost anxiety to produce to their Lordships all the information in their possession. There were produced towards the close of the last session of Parliament, a number of documents illustrative of the various details connected with this subject, and he had himself presented this evening to their Lordships additional papers, calculated to throw light upon the state of the finances of India, and of the trade to that country; and if it should appear that further information would be necessary for the elucidation of the subject, or would be required for the satisfaction of their Lordships, it would be most readily afforded by his Majesty's Government. It was the wish of the Government that there should be no concealment. All that was desired by his Majesty's Government was, that Parliament and the country should have every opportunity afforded to form a correct judgment upon this important subject. As the papers presented last Session illustrative of it had now been for some time in their Lordships hands, it would be unnecessary for him to draw their attention more particularly to the results to be arrived at from a careful inspection of these documents, as he was confident that their Lordships had given to them that
253hear252hear251250249Lord Ellenborough
hear255hear254 said, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the motion, but he was, on the contrary, anxious to express his gratification, that so early an opportunity had been taken for the appointment of the Committee. At the same time he was sorry that the course which he had recommended last Session, in reference to this important subject, had not been adopted. He then recommended his Majesty's Government to adopt the plan which was pursued on a former occasion, when the affairs of the East-India Company were before Parliament, on the last consideration of their Charter,—namely, that his Majesty's Government, who, of course. possessed the fullest and most correct information with respect to the affairs of India, and who must particularly of late years have had their attention peculiarly directed to that subject, should in the first instance bring forward their views in some tangible shape; the subject would afterwards be discussed in the course of inquiry which
hear255hear254The Marquis of Lansdowne
256** said, he was anxious to allude, in the first instance, to what had fallen from the noble Marquis (Lansdowne). He fully concurred with the noble Marquis, as to the great importance of the question which was now about to be brought under the consideration of Parliament, and it was upon account of its importance that it had been thought fit that Parliament should apply itself to the investigation of the subject before any determinate course should be adopted by his Majesty's Ministers in respect to it. He could not help thinking that such a mode of previous inquiry was the best way of arriving at a just conclusion both on the part of Parliament and his Majesty's Ministers. He could assure the noble Marquis, that for his own part he was anxious to obtain fuller information on the subject before he came to a decision upon it, and that could only be accomplished by means of the proposed mode of inquiry. With regard to the question asked by the
256**Lord Ellenborough
261habeas corpus260259 said, he entertained opi-
261habeas corpus260259Lord Melville
hear262hear, hear said, when the noble Viscount opposite (Melville) rose, he was afraid that that noble Lord was about to read his noble friend (Lord Ellenborough) a severe lecture upon the style and tenor of the letter in question, seeing that the noble Viscount at the outset deprecated any flippancy upon a subject so grave and important; but instead of so turning round upon his friend, the noble Viscount had pursued a course altogether the reverse, and endeavoured to bear out the noble writer of that letter in the assertion that the question of law was one of comparative insignificance. That was the very sentiment of the letter, upon which those who objected to it might lay no inconsiderable stress. The noble Lord, in his letter, declared that the question of law was one of comparative insignificance, and that what he chiefly objected to was the tone and temper of the Judges—the tenor of the language which they delivered from the bench—the law was quite a secondary matter. However, it was scarcely fair to come to any conclusion upon matters turning upon the mere language of the letter, as the noble Lord had not thought proper to inform the House what parts of the letter were authentic, and what were not so; but thus much he (Lord Holland) could not help saying, that the effect of the letter had been to produce a considerable sensation in that country, and it was calculated to produce a considerable sensation here, that any member of His Majesty's Government should be found writing to a public functionary in India that errors in matters of law were comparatively of little importance, and that the speeches from the Judges on the bench—the tone and temper of those speeches—constituted the whole ground of offence. That it was much worse to touch the supreme Government than to be guilty of illegal proceedings. [hear262hear, hearLord Holland
264hear263 said, he should have thought himself almost the last person in this country who could have been considered as wishing to trench on the independence of Judges. He had too strong a recollection of the qualities that distinguished his noble and learned Father in the administration of law, not to respect and maintain the independence of the Judge: and had he entertained the slightest idea of destroying, injuring, or weakening the independence of Judges in India, he should have deserved the reprobation which the noble Baron had been pleased to cast on him. He did not, however, oppose himself to the independence of Judges, yet he would resist their usurpation of powers not given them, but expressly taken away from them, by law—powers, which if the official information he had received were to be relied upon, or that which he had obtained from persons well acquainted with the state of affairs in India, could not be exercised by the Judges there with-
264hear263Lord Ellenborough
 said, in moving for various important Returns, he could not but press on their Lordships the necessity of considering the present distressed state of the agricultural class, and the great obligation which lay upon Parliament to take measures for their immediate relief. He concluded with moving for a return of the amount of money levied and expended for the relief of the poor in each parish in England and Wales, for the year ending 25th March 1830; specifying the amount paid for other purposes than the actual relief of the poor.Lord Teynham
—No, but the whole of the sentiment.Lord Ellenborough
hear266 said, after the remarks of the noble Duke he would consent to withdraw this motion; but accompanied that withdrawal with a notice, that on Tuesday, the 20th of April, he should move for a Committee to inquire into the state of the Poor-laws, and the administration thereof—previous to which, he should move certain resolutions declaratory of his views upon that subject, allowing sufficient time for noble Lords to make up their minds as to the most expedient measures
hear266Lord Teynham
 said, he was quite sure that the Returns already before the House would prove amply sufficient to establish any degree of agricultural distress arising from the unequal pressure of burthens for which the noble Lord might be disposed to contend. If his object were to prove that the land was unduly burthened, turn where he might he need be at no loss for evidence in support of that position; but it would be infinitely better if the noble Lord, instead of moving for those Returns, would give his vote against the measures of the noble Duke's Government. If the noble Lord, on the first night of the session, had voted in the minority instead of swelling the ranks of the noble Duke, it would have been a much greater public service than moving for returns of this description. To do real service to the state, noble Peers ought to support a general parliamentary inquiry into the state of the country, and there they would learn quite enough to supersede the necessity of moving for any further returns. Let the noble Lord only withdraw his support from the Government of the noble Duke, and to that extent at least he will do a public service; not but that he (the Duke of Richmond) regretted as much as any noble Peer could do, the necessity under which he felt himself of opposing the measures of the noble Duke, especially on subjects connected with the state of the landed interests.The Duke of Richmond
—Not the whole of the letter.Lord Durham (smiling)
Hear, from the Ministerial benches—The noble Lord may, if he pleases, read the whole of the letter. The sentence is this:—"He (Sir William Seymour) will rather support Government than use the authority of the Supreme Court as a means of raising opposition." [Hear, from the Ministerial benchesLord Durham
.—I have stated that it is the general opinion that the sentiments expressed in the letter indicated a disposition on the part of the writer to attack the independence of the Judges. I must confess that I entertained the sentiments which I have already named, relating to the appointment of the Judges, and that I am confirmed in those sentiments by what has occurred out of the House. Perhaps the noble Duke has not read the letter?Lord Durham
.—Then what is the first fact contained in the letter? The Judge here spoken of is said "to have right notions of his duty, and of the law, which has been so strangely misrepresented; and that he will rather support Government"—Lord Durham
257 said, it appeared, that the noble Lord substantially avowed the sentiments contained in the letter alluded to. He was not certainly prepared for such an acknowledgment, and he was sure the House and the country would participate in the sincere regret which he experienced at an avowal of such sentiments being entertained in such a quarter. It was the more to be regretted, as the feeling prevailed throughout the country, and was particularly impressed upon the minds of persons who interested themselves in the affairs of India, that in this letter one of the Ministers of the Crown, to whose charge was intrusted the government of India, had expressed sentiments unfavourable to the independence of the Judges in that country. It was a matter of sincere regret that such an impression should go forth in India. He would not enter further upon the consideration of that letter now, as he understood that the noble Lord was not prepared for the discussion of it at present. It was to be regretted that the rest of his Majesty's Government had not disavowed the sentiments in that letter—sentiments which had excited general
257Lord Durham
* said, he fully agreed in the importance of this question, and concurred in what had fallen from his noble friend who had just sat down. He should not have thought it necessary to trespass upon this occasion upon the attention of the House were it not that he was anxious to afford to the noble Lord opposite (Ellenborough) an opportunity to give to the House and the country, an explanation regarding a document which had not only been circulated in the country, but which had been made the subject of animadversion in the other House of Parliament. The document to which he alluded had affixed to it the signature of the noble Lord, it was addressed to a functionary in India, and contained sentiments certainly of an extraordinary nature. He trusted the noble Lord would be enabled to deny its authenticity; and he now, therefore, called upon the noble Lord to state whether or not the letter addressed to Sir J. Malcolm, as printed in the public papers*Lord Durham
258a laugh, and hear said, his noble friend had stated that the letter was in substance the letter which he had written to Sir J. Malcolm, but though his noble friend had bound himself to the terms of the letter, he was not at all bound to it, as understood by the interpretation which others thought proper to affix. For his part, he did not see a word in the letter directly derogatory to the independence of the Judges in the east. It was stated in the letter, that a certain Judge in the East Indies had not conducted himself with discretion, and if his noble friend had known at the time of writing that letter the decision of the Privy Council (the highest authority in this country) on the subject, he would not have altered the expression; for the Privy Council decided that he had not conducted himself according to law. His noble friend had said in this private letter, which had in some manner found its way to the public, that the law of the learned Judge in question was considered bad law, and bad law it was afterwards decided to be by the Privy Council, and it was held that the Judge had no power to act as as he had done, and that his acting so had been indiscreet. His noble friend in his letter went on to say that two new Judges had been appointed who would restrain the other Judge should he happen to be indiscreet. [258a laugh, and hearThe Duke of Wellington
.—Read on.The Duke of Wellington
.—Yes, I have.The Duke of Wellington
265 said, he had not the slightest objection to afford the House or the noble Lord all the information which could possibly be required, but the last time that similar information had been applied for, a year and a half elapsed before the Returns could be procured—
265The Duke of Wellington
394s.s.s.s.s.s.393 presented a petition of Peers and Commoners, proprietors and lessees of coal mines near the rivers Tyne and Wear, praying for the renewal of the inquiry on the subject of the Coal Trade, which was read, and ordered to be on the Table. His Lordship then moved that the Committee appointed in the last Session, to take into consideration the state of the Coal Trade in the United Kingdom, together with the duties of all descriptions and charges affecting the same, as well in the port of London as in the several other ports of the United Kingdom, and to report to the House, be revived.—In making this Motion, he said, he should not have taken that opportunity to address their Lordships on the subject, had he not been honoured by
394s.s.s.s.s.s.393The Marquis of Londonderry
The order of the day being read, 411Per medios, miscetque viris: neque cernitur ulli.Infert se septus nebulâ, mirabile dictu410409Quid stulti proprium est? non posse et velle nocere.Quid prudentis opus? cui possis nolle nocere.408407406405404403No, no! from the Duke of Wellington402Spes Danaûm.""Ex illo fluere ac retro sublapsa referri401400399laughter398397396 said— I was, I confess, my Lords, disappointed and surprised on the first day of the Session, to learn from the Lords Commissioners Speech that the pacification and final settlement of Greece was not yet in such a state as to enable his Majesty's Ministers to lay the papers connected with this subject before Parliament. If I were at first disappointed, a very little reflection, in my own mind, allayed my disappointment; and this disappointment was more allayed when I further reflected—considering, as I do, that the proceedings, in this case, were anomalous; that the delay might be considered as an auspicious circumstance, tending to make the final settlement of Greece more advantageous to Europe in general and to this country, and more honourable to his Majesty's Crown. And why, my Lords? For this reason. The unexpected delay occurring in the completion of these arrangements just at the meeting of Parliament, enabled and invited Parliament to express its opinion, as no explanation has been afforded it of the state of the negociation, as to the principles on which it will consider the settlement of Greece advantageous to this country, and honourable to his Majesty's Crown; and I now call on you, my Lords, to seize this opportunity of declaring your sentiments and recording your opinions. The Motion with which I shall conclude, will be to call on your Lordships to admit those principles which I stated on a former evening; and they are so true, that in them all your Lordships must concur. At least, they are so obvious to my mind, that there is no Peer, I believe—and, indeed, no man of sound mind—who will not acquiesce in them; and it will not be necessary for me to take up much of your Lordships' time in bringing you to agree to the sound principles contained in my resolution. But it is not enough to show that these principles are true—your
411Per medios, miscetque viris: neque cernitur ulli.Infert se septus nebulâ, mirabile dictu410409Quid stulti proprium est? non posse et velle nocere.Quid prudentis opus? cui possis nolle nocere.408407406405404403No, no! from the Duke of Wellington402Spes Danaûm.""Ex illo fluere ac retro sublapsa referri401400399laughter398397396Lord Holland
 said, he could not but contrast the professions of Ministers with their acts in relation to the invasion of Turkey by the Russians; upon the one hand they professed to avoid war, while upon the other they held out a positive threat, when the Russians were at Adrianople, that if they advanced to Constantinople they would sail up the Dardanelles. This step was hazardous, and exposed them to all the consequences of a war. He should support the Motion.The Marquis of Clanricarde
419 said, in his opinion, the great question on the Turkish war was, whether the integrity of that Empire was worth preserving at the risk of a war with Russia? If, upon that question, Ministers had made up their minds in the affirmative, they ought to have pursued their object at all events. Such, he believed, was the view which the noble Duke took of the question.—But, if Government had decided not to abide the risk, they ought not, in any case, to have given the least encouragement to the Turks to resist, as, unfortunately, some expressions in the speech of the noble Duke, at the begining of the Session, had the effect of doing. He should not now discuss the question; but he wished to call the attention of the House to one important fact. Turkey had been represented as playing the most blind and stupid part throughout this war; but was this the fact? Towards Russia only was she undoubtedly blind; for immediately after
419Lord Melbourne
 begged to congratulate the Government upon the declaration which they had made of neutrality, as concerned the internal affairs of the new Government of Greece. He hoped, however, that our legitimate influence would be used to prevent any other power from shackling that people in the choice of their institutions. We ought to persuade them to adopt our own institutions, if it were only to show the world that we bear with them less as grievances than cherish them as blessings. Such a gift to the new State would be consistent with our national greatness and the public interest. He should support the Motion.Lord Goderich
428427pro tanto426425 replied.—He was not disposed to press his Motion to a division. All that he should do would be to enter his Resolution on their Lordships' Journals, as a record of his opinions on a subject which he had much at heart. He wished to say one or two words in explanation of what had fallen from the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs respecting the sentiments of a distinguished relation of his on the policy of maintaining the integrity of the European dominions of the Grand Seignior. The noble Lord had quoted a passage from a speech of Mr. Fox as a proof of that great man having entertained the same views of policy with respect to Turkey with those at present acted upon by Ministers. Now, he believed he might say that no man was better, or so well, acquainted with the opinions, political and general, of that great statesman and lover of his country than he was; and from that knowledge he would take it upon him to assert, that so far from Mr. Fox wishing to protect the Porte against the aggressions of his neighbours, it was an earnest object of his to drive the Turks entirely out of Europe. He repeated that Mr. Fox had more than once expressed this his invariable opinion on the subject. [The Earl of Aberdeen here gave a sign of dissent] What, the noble Earl holds up his hand in dissent! Did the noble Earl pretend to know as much of Mr. Fox's opinion as he did? If his opinion be derived from a newspaper speech of Mr. Fox he would tell him unhesitatingly, from his knowledge of that stateman's opinions, that it was ill reported, and did not faithfully state his relative's sentiments. He knew of no speech of Mr. Fox, in which such a doctrine was even alluded to; and he knew of those in which a very different one was distinctly asserted. He could not be mistaken on this point. He had a perfect recollection of Mr. Fox's opinions on the Ottoman institutions. He remembered them particularly well, for he was familiar with them from his entrance into public life. At the time of the landing of the French troops under Buonaparte in Egypt, he remembered Mr. Fox observing that though England might be
428427pro tanto426425Lord Holland
 said, he was not then able to determine how far the declaration, just read by the noble Earl, was inconsistent with what he had stated as the sentiments of Mr. Fox on the policy of protecting or discouraging the Turkish dominion in Europe. The matter was rather new to him, and he would investigate it before he would offer any opinion on its apparent discrepancy with what he had stated,Lord Holland
 said, that what he had quoted as the sentiments of Mr. Fox, in relation to the policy of preserving the integrity of European Turkey, he would inform the noble Baron who had just addressed the House, he had taken from the most indisputable authority within his reach. The noble Lord had represented his distinguished relation as the invariable enemy of the Ottoman dominions in Europe, and stated, that any speech expressing a contrary doctrine must be a misrepresentation. Now he begged to inform the noble Lord, that the extract he had quoted was from no speech or report of Mr. Fox's opinions, but from his own letter, written with the deliberation due to an official document, for such it was. The occasion which gave rise to the following declaration of opinion on the part of Mr. Fox was a letter to him, as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, from M. Talleyrand, dated April the 1st, 1806, in which the French Minister, among other matters, says, "The integrity and the complete and absolute independence of the Ottoman Empire form not only the sincerest desire of the Emperor, but constitute also the undeviating object of his policy." To which Mr. Fox replied in a letter, dated Downing-street, April 8, 1806, as follows:—"as to what relates to the integrity and independence of the Ottoman Empire no difficulty can present itself, those objects being equally dear to all the parties interested in the present discussion." Now, though this declaration did not amount to a pledge that Mr. Fox would guarantee the integrity of the Ottoman Empire, it went to show that the expulsion of the Turks from Europe was not, as the noble Lord had stated, an invariable object of his policy.The Earl of Aberdeen
418417416415414413412 rose and said,—I had hoped that the declaration in his Majesty's Speech, by which Parliament was informed that the King had concerted measures with his Allies for the pacification and final settlement of Greece, and the expression of a confident hope on the part of his Majesty that it would be in his power speedily to lay before Parliament the particulars of that arrangement, would have been sufficient to repress, for a time at least, the impatience of noble Lords to enter into a discussion of this subject. But the noble Baron having been unable to resist the temptation of such an inviting topic, has, in my opinion brought it before the House in a manner certainly most unusual, and which can only be justified by a well-founded suspicion of those whose duty it is more immediately to advise the Crown. To warrant such a proceeding, the noble Baron must suppose, with apparent reason, that we are either indifferent to the honour of the Crown, or unwilling to carry into effect the stipulations of Treaties by which we profess to be bound.
418417416415414413412The Earl of Aberdeen
395 said, he had no objection to the re-appointment of that Committee, and that it should continue its inquiries, and carry them forward to a conclusion. He would give every attention to the subject; but as his noble friend knew that he had another Committee to attend, that on the East-India affairs, he hoped care would be taken to call the Committee together on days when the
395The Duke of Wellington
424423422Holland.421420 said,—My Lords, although perfectly satisfied with the defence of the Government which the speech of my noble friend has afforded, yet, as some things have been stated since he sat down, more particularly by
424423422Holland.421420The Duke of Wellington
 said, there could be no doubt of the possibility of ascertaining the amount of Bank of England notes in circulation. As to the amount of country bank notes they could only come to an approximate conclusion, and no account could state accurately the quantity of gold and silver coin in circulation. The account which he then held in his hand, and for which he intended to move, would perhaps assist the object which the noble Earl had in view. He intended to move for a return of the quantity of gold and silver coined at the Mint since the 1st of January, 1819, clown to the present time. He should also move for a return of the quantity of British gold and silver coin exported within the same period; and also for a return of the quantity of foreign bullion and coin exported during the same period. He was well aware that there was no law which compelled an individual, who was going abroad, to give an account of the quantity of gold coin which he carried with him. It could not, however, be very considerable. But when gold, in consequence of the exchanges, was exported in large quantities as an article of merchandise, returns of the quantity so exported were made to the Customs, and therefore could be produced before their Lordships. He knew that such returns would not be conclusive; but they would all serve to show the data on which the reasons must rest of such a calculation as that which had been entered into by the noble Duke.Viscount Goderich
.—It was true that such a Treaty had been signed, and he believed ratified.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that his object was, to obtain a return of the amount of Bank of England notes, of country notes, and of the gold and silver coin, in circulation at the present, time, and in former years.Earl Stanhope
 wished to ask the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs a question. Had a Treaty of Commerce, which by some sad misnomer was called a Treaty of Reciprocity, been signed between this country and Austria?Earl Stanhope
480 said, that his object in
480Earl Stanhope
 said, he rose to present a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the neighbourhood of Chipping Norton, complaining of agricultural distress, and praying for the repeal of the duties on Malt and Boer. He would avail himself of that opportunity to put a question to the noble Duke (Wellington) on the opposite benches. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that on the first night of the Session the noble Duke produced a paper from which he read several extracts, purporting to be an account of the amount of the Bank of England notes, of the country bank-notes, and of the gold and silver coin, in circulation at the present and in former times. He wished to ask the noble Duke whether he had any objection to produce that paper? If he had no objection, the noble Duke would perhaps move for its production; if he had any objection, he (Earl Stanhope) would move for it, as he was convinced that the statement of the noble Duke was founded in fallacy.Earl Stanhope
479.—The paper which I read to the House on the first night of the Session, was a memorandum made out by myself of information which I received in the course of conversation with some gentlemen, who were much better informed on the subject of the currency than I can be. That paper is not of such a nature as will enable me to lay it before the House; but I have no
479The Duke of Wellington
 stated, that his comparison had been made upon accounts, for the two periods, which, if not exactly correct, had at least corresponding errors, and thus would prevent any error of magnitude from taking place in the result; these returns were as accurate as, perhaps, any could be, and probably, the later returns were the more accurate.The Duke of Wellington
 said, the returns for which the noble Viscount had declared his intention to move, would give the noble Earl, he thought, all the information which he required. If he (the Duke of Wellington) could discover any other information which was likely to throw light on the subject of that calculation, he could assure his noble friend that he would most willingly grant it.The Duke of Wellington
d.s.l.,581l.,l.l., in presenting a petition from four hundred and fifty owners and occupiers of land in the neighbourhood of Tunbridge, complaining of agricultural distress, and praying for a repeal of the duties on Malt and Beer, observed that he could assure their Lordships, that the distress in the neighbourhood of that district, which was emphatically called the Garden of Kent, was so great that nothing could exceed it. He himself resided in the parish of Mereworth, and he would, as a specimen of the distress which prevailed in that county, describe to them the condition of that parish. The number of acres it contained was two thousand two hundred, of which one thousand were very poor land. The rental of the parish was 1,668d.s.l.,581l.,l.l.Lord Torrington
584 said, that although the returns which had just been moved for might afford some approximation to the amount of our circulation, they would only afford an approximation, and ought not to be considered as accurate. He was, however anxious to slate to their Lordships why he should not attach much importance to these returns, even if they could be procured of perfect accuracy. He apprehended that Circulation was one thing, and Currency another, for the amount of Currency did not always agree with the amount of Circulation. He likewise apprehended that the amount of Currency was not. to be taken as a test of national prosperity. One of the most acute and enlightened Ministers, on points of finance at least, which France had over possessed, (M. Necker), had made a series of calculations at the time of the Revolution, from which it appeared that the amount of Currency in France was greater at that time than the amount of Currency now is in England; from which, if any body inferred that there was at that time greater prosperity in France than there was at present in England, he would
584The Marquis of Lansdowne
585 said, before their Lordships entered upon the important debate which was fixed for that evening, he wished to put a question to his Majesty's Ministers upon a point, which prior to the independence of Greece being finally settled, ought to be clearly and explicitly understood, not only by the parties immediately concerned in it, but also by the Parliament of England, and by the public at large. He addressed the question which he was going to ask to the noble Lords opposite in the plural number; for he really did not know from which of the public offices the orders had been issued to which he referred, and which were now acted upon by the Commanders of his Majesty's squadrons in the Mediterranean. He was given to understand, that the admiral and captains of his Majesty's vessels on the Mediterranean station were authorized and directed to search all Turkish vessels with which they might fall in, and to intercept all such vessels as they might find having Greek men and women on board, destined to be carried as slaves into foreign countries. It had been stated to him, that such were the instructions issued to all our naval Commanders upon that station. He did not know the precise period at which these instructions were issued, but he believed that they were given to them by
585Lord Holland
588 begged leave to say a few words in explanation, for it appeared to him, from what had fallen from the two noble Lords who had just addressed their Lordships, that they did not understand the drift of his questions. First of all, let him be permitted to say to the noble President of the Council that it was no want of candour that had prevented him from furnishing the noble Earl with previous notice of his intention to put these questions. Neither had the noble President any reason to complain of the course which he had pursued, for his main question was merely prospective. His question was, not when these instructions were first issued, and what was their precise nature and extent; but taking it for granted that they were in force, did they apply to Candia as they formerly applied to the Morea and to Negropont? And would they apply to Candia, when the pacification of Greece was completed, supposing Candia to be still left in the hands of the Turks? As to the extent of the orders, though he knew that it had been the subject of dispute between the Government and the gallant Admiral who had gained for himself immortal glory at Navarino, that, he could assure their Lordships, was not the point at which he had been aiming. But as one of the reasons assigned for the recall of that gallant officer was, that he had not put his orders in force in the manner in which he ought, he (Lord Holland) had been of opinion either that
588Lord Holland
590 said, that there was one merit, at least, in the answer of the noble Duke—it was a distinct and explicit answer. He now understood that the instructions did not apply to Candia. He did not wish to argue the policy or impolicy of that arrangement at the moment, when their Lordships were about to have a great question submitted to their consideration; but he could not help requesting their Lordships to remark the situation in which this country and the British Admiral were placed by it. The original instructions were issued before the Protocol, and consequently before the signature of the Treaty of the 6th of July. On what principle were they issued? Were they not issued on the score of humanity? Were they not directly contrary —were they not in the very teeth of that austere and extreme neutrality which the noble Lords opposite so much affected? For, strictly speaking, we had no right, according to the ordinary law of nations, to interfere in any struggle which might be raging between the Turks and their subjects—the Greeks. He had no doubts that those instructions were issued because the honest, and manly, and humane nature of the late Lord Liverpool was shocked at the contemplation of a war conducted on such principles, and was revolted by the outrages which were committed during its continuance, upon human nature. Upon such grounds we had interfered to prevent such a traffic, and he wished to know whether any difference at all was made on that occasion between the inhabitants of Candia and those of the Morea? At all events, we sanctioned the principle of interference with such an odious traffic, and if it should hereafter be the policy of the Ottoman Porte to transport the Greek inhabitants of Candia as slaves to Egypt or elsewhere, having already sanctioned the principle of interfering, by preventing the transportation of Greek slaves from the Morea, we had set the example to the other Powers of Europe to interfere and interrupt such a trade, if trade it could be called, should it ever be carried on. If such a transportation of the inhabitants of Candia should be at-empted, it would be right and fair, under
590Lord Holland
 said, it should be recollected that the statement as to the transportation of Greek slaves from the Morea to Egypt was almost in every respect an exaggerated, false, and unfounded story.Lord Ellenborough
 would merely ask, in reply to what had fallen from the noble Lord, whether a great many slaves who were about being transported by Ibrahim Pacha from the Morea had not been seized and released by Sir E. Codrington, and whether there were not many Candiotes amongst those who were thus released?Lord Holland
 said, it was impossible for him to say whether there were or were not Candiotes amongst the slaves transported to Alexandria, but to show that there had been much exaggeration and misrepresentation abroad upon the subject, he would state a simple fact. It was well known that there were many Greek slaves serving in the Turkish army in the Morea, and when that army was about to evacuate the Morea, and they were left to their choice, either to go with their masters or to remain with their relations, they preferred going to Egypt to remaining in Greece.—The subject was here dropped.Lord Ellenborough
de facto,629628 could not allow the question to come to a vote without offering a few remarks upon the peculiar situation in which this country was placed with regard to Portugal. He did not intend to uphold the policy of one Minister against that of another Minister; but to review the conduct of Great Britain towards Portugal as a whole, and to consider whether the natives of that country had been treated by this country in a manner to inspire affection and confidence, and to lead the rest of the world to believe that Great Britain had acted with becoming consistency and energy. He well understood the doctrine of non-interference; and in nine instances out of
de facto,629628The Earl of Carnarvon
634633632631 observed that after what had been already said, it was not necessary for him to add anything to justify, and little to explain, the vote he intended to give. If, by supporting the Motion, it could be supposed that he meant at all to sanction the principle, that Great Britain ought to have interfered to guarantee the Constitution of Portugal, he would vote against it, and he trusted the time would never come when Ministers would advise the King to guarantee a Constitution of any kind for any Foreign State. He would also rather oppose the Motion of his noble friend than that his vote in its favour should lead to the slightest implication, that under the circumstances it was fit to recognise the authority of Don Miguel. The rule of that tyrannical usurper was repugnant to the feelings of the whole kingdom, and it was needless for him to add a single touch to the picture drawn by the noble Secretary of State. What he understood to be sought by the Motion was this,—that without interrupting negotiations, for none were pending—without committing Great Britain to any future course of conduct, for no such course had been pointed out— the House and the country ought at least to be furnished with the fullest information before a step was taken that could not be adopted without pain and regret. What, he would ask, had been done to meet this great evil? During the last two years our foreign relations had undergone an alarming change; at one end of Europe a mighty State, the maintenance of which was once considered essential to the balance of power, had been reduced to a state of dependence and vassalage; while at the other end those friendly relations, the preservation of which our wisest Statesmen had held necessary to the welfare of this country, had been torn asunder. Thus circumstanced, was it fitting that Parliament should show indifference to the important events passing before its eyes? If it consented merely to look on with apathy, notwithstanding what had been said on a former night by the noble Duke regarding the inexhaustible wealth and resources of this country, and her capability of meeting a new war should it arise, people would be found on the continent malicious enough to attribute our forbearance to other causes than indifference. With regard to our existing relations with Portugal, he
634633632631The Marquis of Lansdowne
626625de jurede facto,de jurede factoHolland.Wellington624623Aberdeen.622The Duke of Wellington here said "No."621hear620619618617 concurred in what had fallen from the noble Earl with respect to the bringing of the Portuguese Constitution to Europe. It was deemed indispensable to the tranquillity of Europe that Portugal should separate from Brazil, and Sir Charles Stuart was sent to Portugal to explain the necessity of such a proceeding to Don John, then the King of that Country, who assented to the principle, and directed Sir Charles Stuart to proceed to his son, Don Pedro, at Brazil, with a proposition to separate the countries. Before Sir Charles Stuart arrived there, Don John died, and he was thus placed in the peculiar situation of messenger from the King of Portugal to the King of Portugal; for Don Pedro became, by his father's death, the sovereign of that country. He, however, consented to adopt the measure of separation. There were, it is true, at that time, considerable differences respecting the mode, in case of future successions, how the separation was to be perpetuated. However, in the end, Don Pedro consented to this separation, and also, which was not at first contemplated—granted a Constitution as well. When in the sequel it became known to Mr. Canning that Sir Charles Stuart was to be the bearer of this Constitution to Lisbon, he wrote to that Ambassador, on the 12th of July, in these words:—"Every thing which you bring from Rio de Janeiro to Lisbon will be precisely what the Portuguese nation have a right to expect, except the Constitution;" and Mr. Canning then went on to state, in the same despatch, "but, in order that we should better inculcate on other Governments our disinclination to meddle in their internal affairs, it is expedient, in this respect, to remove all grounds of jealousy of British influence, and it is therefore his Majesty's desire that you should proceed to England as soon as you deliver into the hands of the Infanta Regent, and of the Portuguese
626625de jurede facto,de jurede factoHolland.Wellington624623Aberdeen.622The Duke of Wellington here said "No."621hear620619618617Viscount Goderich
l.l.583 said, the documents for which the noble Duke had just moved, when added to those for which he had himself moved on a former evening, would put their Lordships in possession of all the
l.l.583Viscount Goderich
587 said, that his principal reason for rising was to inform their Lordships, that his recollection of the circumstances which gave rise to these instructions coincided in most respects with the account given by his noble friend, the President of the Council. It was undoubtedly true, that in consequence of information which reached this country that there was an intention on the part of Ibrahim Pacha to remove the Greek population from the Morea, and to substitute a Mahometan population in its stead, instructions were sent to our Admiral in the Mediterranean, directing him to obtain a categorical answer from Ibrahim Pacha on the one hand, and from the Sultan on the other, as to the reality of such an intention, in order to intimate to either of them, in case they avowed such an intention, that the British Government would not suffer a measure of that nature to be carried into effect. He did not think that the memory of his noble friend (Earl
587Viscount Goderich
616615614613612611610609608607606605604603 said, that if the Motion of his noble friend had been more in accordance with Parliamentary usage and form, and if he had merely called for additional papers to explain the course which his Majesty's Ministers had deemed it right to pursue with regard to Portugal, he should have felt it his duty under such circumstances to oppose it, on the ground that such information was at present unnecessary. He was much more inclined
616615614613612611610609608607606605604603The Earl of Aberdeen
586 came forward to declare that he was the Minister from whose office the instructions to which the noble Baron alluded had emanated. At the same time he could not help expressing a wish that the noble Baron had given him previous notice of his intention to ask a question upon this subject; for, by looking at the official documents, he should have been able to give the noble Baron a more accurate answer than he could now promise to do from a mere recollection of them, so long after the time at which they had originally been drawn up. As well as he recollected—and he trusted that noble Lords would not charge him hereafter with intentional misrepresentation in case his recollection were wrong—as well as he recollected, the instructions given to our naval Commanders in the Mediterranean were given under an impression, which his Majesty's Government believed to be well founded, that Ibrahim Pacha had published a proclamation in Greece, announcing his intention of taking every Greek whom he could capture to Egypt as a slave, and of transporting a number of Asiatics into Greece, to replace the population so removed. In consequence
586Earl Bathurst
627 said, he could neither concur with the noble Mover, nor with the noble Viscount who had just taken his seat. That noble Viscount, in particular, seemed to have gone over the papers to which he had referred so repeatedly by some system of cross-reading, and had arrived at a conclusion corresponding with that mode of perusal. The House ought to remember the statement of Mr. Canning, when he proposed that troops should be sent to Portugal. In terms stronger than any other man could use, he expressly asserted that they were not to act either for or against the Constitution—they were only to defend the country against invasion by the troops of Spain. What reason, then, could the Portuguese have for thinking that this country had taken what the noble Viscount was pleased to call the British-Portuguese Constitution under its special protection? His noble relative (Lord Stuart of Rothsay) when Sir C. Stuart, had only brought the Constitution to Portugal in his capacity of a Portuguese Plenipotentiary; and when the Emperor of Brazil was anxious to consult him on the subject, he was too prudent to consent to give any advice, so that that circumstance could not be construed into an approval in the face of Mr. Canning's direct disavowal. The simple question, was this:—When Don Miguel reached Portugal, and a party, which seemed the strongest, made its appearance adverse to
627Lord Wharncliffe
 stated, in explanation, that he never considered gold, once exported, as banished for ever from the country.Earl Stanhope
582 said, that the information which the noble Duke was now granting was very desirable, and very fit to be laid before their Lordships. He was, however, still unable to make out how the noble Duke could derive from these returns the results which he had stated. He would, for his own part, confess that the manner in which the noble Duke had spoken on this question on the first night of the Session, had left an impression on his mind, and he believed on the minds of the rest of their Lordships, that those results were derived from calculations founded upon official papers. It turned out, however, from what the noble Duke said on a former night, that they were derived from nothing but a memorandum of the noble Duke's own. The returns for which the noble
582Earl Stanhope
644 said, he still retained his opinion that this country ought to have taken more energetic measures in support of those individuals who had advocated the constitution in Portugal, and that opinion was strengthened by the declaration of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that he would not look with favour upon any arrangement which did not include an amnesty for those individuals.
644Viscount Melbourne
602601600599598597596595594593592 moved, that that portion of the King's Speech delivered at the opening of Parliament which related to Portugal should be read; which having been done, the noble Lord rose to introduce the Motion of which he had given notice upon the subject. We regret to say, however, that the noble Lord throughout the whole of his address to the House, spoke in so low a tone, and so frequently dropped his voice, that it was exceedingly difficult to catch what fell from him. He commenced by observing that their Lordships were aware, from that portion of his Majesty's Speech which had been just read, that his Majesty saw very little prospect of the negotiations which were announced at the commencement of the Session in 1825, and were again mentioned in less sanguine terms in his Majesty's Speech at the close of the Session, being brought to any satisfactory conclusion,—that he saw very little prospect of a reconciliation between the Princes of the House of Braganza, and that so much inconvenience had resulted from the present state of affairs—the continued interruptions of the relations between this country and Portugal had been
602601600599598597596595594593592Viscount Melbourne
 said, the line pursued by the noble Lord on this occasion had been most informal. The noble Lord came down to the House, and without any notice whatever, put a question respecting transactions that had taken place three years ago; he made three speeches, containing long reasonings in each of them upon the subject, and then called upon his Majesty's Government to answer at once his hypothetical question. As to what might be the conduct of the Powers of Europe if certain occurrences foretold by the noble Lord should take place, it was not for him to say; but this he would say, that he was ready, whenever the noble Lord should think proper to bring forward any specific Motion upon the subject, to answer any questions he should have to propose. But for the present he would beg the noble Lord to bear in mind that the measures which had been taken to prevent the transportation of slaves from the Morea, were not applicable to Candia, because the circumstances respecting the transactions in the Morea did not apply to Candia; and before the noble Lord assumed that the same principle which had been formerly acted upon with regard to the Morea would be applied to what might occur in Candia, it was necessary for the noble Lord to show that the state of things in the Morea was similar to the state of things in Candia.The Duke of Wellington
589 said, that he could not pretend to recollect precisely the terms of an order issued four years ago; but he believed the fact to be as the noble Viscount (Goderich) had stated it —namely, that the order referred to applied solely to the Morea. He (the Duke of Wellington) believed that it was not applicable at that time to Candia, or indeed to any other part of Greece, save to the Morea. As the Morea had not been
589The Duke of Wellington
643642641de facto640639638637636635 said, he felt himself bound to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the noble Mover for the papers, and the noble Lords who had followed him in the debate, particularly in relation to the transaction at Terceira. The noble Mover had said, that we were bound to the maintenance of the Constitution in Portugal on account of the part we had taken in its establishment, and the interest we had manifested in its success. It was hardly necessary for him to add a word in proof of the contrary fact, after the observations of his noble friend (the Foreign Secretary), and of the noble Marquis who had just addressed the House. He could assure their Lordships that if there was one point on which Mr. Canning was more anxiously earnest than another, it was in enforcing the opinion that England would not, and had no right, to interfere in upholding the Constitution in Portugal. If there was any subject on which that right hon. Gentleman took more pains than another, and the mass of correspondence on the subject was almost incredible, it was to impress the Powers of Europe with the conviction that the Constitution of Portugal was not the offspring of English influence, and that Sir Charles Stuart's agency in its being brought to Europe was solely in his capacity of Minister to the King of Portugal, and not as Ambassador from the King of England. Mr. Canning repeatedly urged the Powers of Europe to remain tranquil, and to aid the establishment of the Constitution by the countenance extended by their several Ambassadors at Lisbon, on the assurance that England would not at all interfere in its maintenance, and that it did not, as he had said, originate with the British Government. If, therefore, Mr. Canning were to be believed, we had no right to interfere in the matter; and as a consequence no steps to the enforcement of the Constitution should be taken.—But then it was said, by the noble Marquis (Lansdowne) and the noble Viscount (Melbourne) on the second bench, though you are not pledged to guarantee the Constitution, yet you are bound to protect it by the part taken by your Ambassador in the earlier stages of its existence. The question then was, in what capacity was Sir Charles
643642641de facto640639638637636635The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he had moved for the production of the documents from which he had obtained his information, in the hope that they would make the same impression on the minds of others as they had made upon his own. If he had drawn erroneous conclusions from those documents, the noble Lord would be able to detect them, and would have a right to find fault with them as fallacious and delusive. He thought, however, that the noble Lord would not be able to convict them of error. Indeed, he was sure that noble Lords, after inspecting those documents, would agree with him that, in the comparison which he had drawn—for it was nothing else but a comparison— between the amount of the Currency at the time when there was the greatest circulation of paper, and the amount of the Currency at the present time, he was right in saying that there was a larger quantity of coin now in circulation than there was formerly. He was sure that all their Lordships would allow that when the exchanges were in favour of this country gold would not go out of it. Gentlemen might carry it abroad with them to meet their individual expenses, but merchants would not send it abroad as an article of merchandise. He admitted that when the exchanges were against this country, the quantity of gold drawn from the Bank might indicate the quantity taken out of the country, and the result of those two principles of calculation was that which he had stated to their Lordships on the first night of the Session.The Duke of Wellington
 said, some nights ago a noble Lord opposite (Earl Stanhope) had asked him a question respecting the authority upon which he had made the statement which he had offered to their Lordships on the first night of the Session, as to the amount of the Currency. He had then told the noble Lord that he had made the statement from information which had been supplied to him, but that he could not at the moment say from what official documents it had been derived. He had since ascertained that point. If the noble Lord had no objection, he would now make a motion which would place the documents on which his calculation was founded, on the table of their Lordships. The noble Duke accordingly moved for various returns, elucidatory of his former statement.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that seeing a noble Earl in his place, who had given notice of a Motion of the utmost importance for Thursday next, in general terms, on the State of the Country, he wished to ask whether the noble Earl had any objection to state more specifically what the precise object of his Motion would be.The Earl of Rosebery
 begged to state, that the Motion he intended to submit to their Lordships on Thursday next, would be drawn up in the very terms in which he had already announced it; namely, "that; the House resolve itself into a Committee to take into consideration the internal state of the Country." By using the words "internal state of the country" he wished to exclude all discussion of its foreign relations.Earl Stanhope
 presented a petition from one hundred and eighty-one farmers of Romney-marsh, praying for an alteration of the Duties on Wool. He took this opportunity of correcting a mistake which had gone forth respecting what he had stated on the first day of the Session. What he then stated was, that he did not intend to bring forward any resolution on the subject of the Duties on Wool, unless numerous petitions were presented, and unless he saw a better chance of success than on former occasions.The Duke of Richmond
 observed, that, if it were the invariable practice of Ministers not to furnish Parliament with certain official papers, it was equally the invariable practice of every Minister not to quote such papers. He did not understand what the noble Duke meant. He came down with a legal authority—an official document, the purport of which he stated to their Lordships, but now he told them they must not judge of all the bearings of that document, because it was the invariable practice of Ministers not to furnish Parliament with such documents. He was not certain that the practice was as the noble Duke represented—at all events, he could state an exception to it. It would doubtless be in the recollection of the noble Duke, that about eight or nine years ago Lord Sidmouth, then Secretary of State for the Home Department, issued a Circular, which excited considerable sensation at the time. When his Lordship was called upon for an explanation of his conduct in regard to that Circular (motions were made on the subject), he laid on their Lordships' Table the opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor-General in support of what he had done. In conclusion he must repeat, that if the document could not be produced, it was unfair to quote it in order to influence their Lordships' minds.Lord Holland
 presented a Petition from certain Freeholders, and other inhabitants of the County of Carmarthen, against the proposed alteration of the Welsh Judicature.Lord Dynevor
926 said, he wished to ask a question of the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government. The other evening,
926The Marquis of Clanricarde
 said, that whilst he had the honour to hold the offices of Solicitor and Attorney General, his attention had been at different times directed to this point, and though he did not mean to say, that in no one instance had the opinions delivered confidentially by the law-officers of the Crown been communicated to Parliament, he had always understood that it was not the practice to apply for such opinions, nor to lay them before Parliament when applied for. They were considered to be confidential communications from the law-officers of the Crown to the members of Government, for the purpose of guiding their judgment on matters of state. With respect to the particular instance to which his noble friend had alluded, he believed that the opinions of the law-officers were communicated to Parliament by Lord Sidmouth without any application from any Member of either House of Parliament. It was his voluntary act, and he not only made the communication to Parliament, he circulated those opinions through the country at large for the purpose of regulating the conduct of the people.The Lord Chancellor
928a laugh said, he understood from the explanation of the noble and learned Lord, that these confidential papers might be communicated to the public, but not to Parliament. This certainly was the most extraordinary description of confidential papers he had ever heard of. [928a laughLord Holland
968hear, from the Duke of Wellington967966965964 felt it necessary to say a few words upon the subject of the present distress, which, if not equally general as that in 1816, was somewhat of the same character, and existed under a similar combination of circumstances. How it happened that, in 1815, 1816, in 1821, 1822, in 1826 and in 1829—great and general distress had occurred in this country, was a question that, no doubt, had much occupied the attention of Ministers and was one to which it would be of great importance to give a clear solution. That during a period of fifteen years of profound peace, times of distress should so often have occurred, was most painful; and the first care of the Legislature was to inquire into the causes of their recurrence; and the first duty, both of the Government and the Parliament, was if possible to provide for it a remedy, or at least a corrective. To him the most painful circumstance in the recurrence of the state of distress during peace, was its frequency. It was like the return of a wasting disease, which undermined the constitution, and at each attack left the body with less strength to resist the next occurrence of the disorder. He would first enumerate the causes which, in his opinion, had brought this country into its present state; and next he would refer to those remedial measures which were within the sphere of the Legislature to apply. He must begin that enumeration with the question of the currency. Though like the noble Viscount he was in favour of a metallic currency, yet he could not disguise from himself the fact that much of the evils now existing had been produced by the
968hear, from the Duke of Wellington967966965964The Earl of Rosebery
 explained, that he should be ready to support any motion for inquiry, brought forward in what he considered a definite and practicable form.The Earl of Rosebery
 explained.The Earl of Rosebery
 bore testimony to the severe distress existing in the country. Would their Lordships suffer the agricultural population to be borne down as they were at present? Hundreds of able-bodied labourers were compelled to have recourse to a pittance derived from the parish for their existence. It had been said that there was a greater currency at present than in former years. He would ask if there ever existed the same distress for want of currency? He did not mean to compare the two countries, but the distress at present existing in this country was similar to the distress which existed in France immediately before the Revolution. With respect to the motions before their Lordships, he certainly did not think the proposition for an inquiry at the bar of the House a wise one. In his opinion, it would do more harm than good. He thought the best course would be, to refer different subjects to Select Committees; and he called on the noble Duke standing by the fire (Richmond)—for no one could do it better—to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the cause of the distress under which the labouring population were suffering. If the inquiries in Select Committees failed, then a more general inquiry might be instituted by all their Lordships at the bar of the House.The Marquis of Salisbury
984983982 expressed his surprise at the speeches of the noble Viscount who had followed the noble Mover, and of the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government; and his still greater surprise at the conclusions to which they had arrived. The noble Duke had begun his speech in a spirit not called for by any thing which had occurred. He had lost his temper; and charged the noble Earl, and the noble Duke who had spoken so ably on the question, with personality; although there was nothing in the speeches of the noble Earl and the noble Duke to justify the accusation. As to the general tenour of the noble Duke's speech, nothing could be more in favour of the Motion, except the tenour of the speech of the noble Viscount. The noble Duke not only dropped the word "inquiry" several times in the course of his speech, but actually concluded his speech by urging their Lordships to investigate and inquire. No doubt every noble Lord had inquired, and would inquire
984983982The Earl of Radnor
987986 observed, that with respect to the passages which he had quoted from the noble Viscount's speeches in 1824 and 1825, he had refreshed his memory by a reference to the recorded reports of those speeches; but he had not had an opportunity of doing so with reference to the last-mentioned expression. He would not positively assert that the noble Viscount had used that expression; but unless his memory greatly failed him he believed that he had clone so. The one-pound notes were the solid basis of the prosperity of the country, on which the noble Viscount, when Chancellor of the Exchequer, congratulated the country. The solid basis of our prosperity was putting forth filthy rags. What he blamed the noble Duke for was, not for doing what every body said ought not to have been done—he meant the measure for putting an end to the circulation of the rags; but, when this measure was adopted, there were other measures that ought also to have been adopted at the same time, to prevent the consequence of putting an end to the paper money. He would not then discuss those other measures; but he thought their Lordships would act wisely in going into a Committee to inquire into what measures might yet be taken. Nobody now doubted the distress; the noble Duke and his colleagues did not doubt the distress; and as they had already changed their opinions on some most important points, he did not doubt that ere the close of the Session the House would yet see greater changes even than before in their opinions. He could bear witness that the distress in that part of the country where he acted as a magistrate was very severe, so severe as to be indescribable. But there was something beyond the pecuniary distress which demanded their Lordships' attention; out of that distress there had arisen a most acrimonious and hostile feeling, a feeling which he was afraid was increasing, and threatening the destruction of society. Only a few years ago there was a social intercourse between all the different classes in the country; it extended downwards, from the farmer through the labourer, and upwards, through the landowner to the Peers, and the highest person in the realm. At present this connexion was entirely destroyed, and
987986The Earl of Radnor
990Delicta majorum immeritus lues989988 could assure the noble Earl (who had submitted the Motion to their Lordships with that degree of earnestness which the subject well deserved), that if he could persuade himself that assenting to the Motion would further the object of enlightening that House and the country as to the causes and cure of that state of difficulty in which he felt as much as the noble Lord that the country was fallen—if he thought that the inquiry would enable them to ascertain what the wisest among them did not then know, how much of the distress arose from permanent, and how much from temporary causes—if, duly contemplating the importance of the inquiry, he could persuade himself to adopt the mode of inquiry recommended by the noble Lord,
990Delicta majorum immeritus lues989988The Marquis of Lansdown
995994993992l. —No doubt, in weight; and was not weight every thing? The coin, it was well known, was continually liable to deterioration from wear, and for that reason, coin was a legal tender to the amount of only 25995994993992lThe Marquis of Lansdown
dsldsl998lll997d996cum quibusdam aliis said, he arose at that late hour of the debate, for the purpose of proposing an amendment to their Lordships. At the same time, he could assure their Lordships that he felt no disposition to attempt to embarrass the Government by any vote of his, or by proposing the adoption of any particular measure of his own, far less by supporting the noble Earl's Motion, which contained more than met the eye, and came upon the House dsldsl998lll997d996cum quibusdam aliisLord King
 was of opinion, that there were not sufficient grounds for inquiry; and stated, on his own actual knowledge, that the distress was only partial. He was not insensible to the distress, and had done what he could to alleviate it. During the last two months, he considered that a good deal of improvement had taken place among the manufacturing and ship-building interests. He reposed the utmost confidence in the present Government, and gave them credit for a desire to relieve the country to the utmost of their ability. He wished those taxes which pressed the most heavily on the poorer classes to be taken off: he might mention the taxes upon hops, beer, and coals carried coast-ways. The noble Marquis concluded by expressing his determination to oppose both motions for inquiry.The Marquis of Bute
999 said, that the noble Baron had selected rather invidiously the name of an individual for remark, though he knew that other individuals were in a
999Lord Melville
 observed, that to the names of the persons whom he had mentioned, no number of years of service whatever was attached.Lord King
llll991 was glad the noble Duke had corrected the error into which he had unintentionally fallen. The fall in the price of the raw material, then, through this series of years, had been beneficial to the country. There was another point to which he was anxious to advert, he meant the currency. With the late Earl of Liverpool, of whom he could never speak without respect and the most kindly
llll991The Marquis of Lansdown
lll1000 said, that if he thought any advantage were to be expected from the inquiry which it was proposed to institute, he should vote for it; but he was not of opinion that this was the case. He contended that the distress was not so great as had been supposed by some; and expressed his conviction that we were arrived at the lowest point of depression, and that both in agricultural and manufacturing affairs we might even now see cause for sanguine hopes of a return to a better state. He gave the Government credit for sincerity in their attempts to carry reductions into effect, but thought that they might be carried much farther, Sir H. Parnell had stated,
lll1000The Earl of Darnley
 expressed the great satisfaction he felt at hearing the luminous speeches of the noble Mover, and the noble Marquis (Lansdown), but as he thought no good could result from so wide and indefinite an inquiry, he begged the noble Earl to withdraw his motion.Lord Teynham
, by permission of their Lordships, withdrew his Amendment.Lord King
 then divided on the Original Motion: Content 15 present, proxies 10; Total 25: Not Content 67 present, proxies 51; Total 118; Majority against the Motion 93.Their Lordships
963962dsdsssll961960hear959dd958, after apologising to the House for addressing them at so early a period of the Debate, said he had never heard a more convincing speech than that of the noble Earl by whom the present Motion was brought forward. He would not follow the noble Viscount who had spoken last through all the minute details into which he had entered, but he would beg the House to remember that that noble Viscount had admitted the general pressure of the distress, though the Speech from the Throne, on the first day of the Session, had distinctly stated that that distress was partial. Taxation was a self-evident cause of the distress, and the distress was acknowledged to be universal; yet the very noble Lord by whom that universality was admitted told Parliament, in 1825, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the financial condition of the country was placed upon a rock, the foundation of which could not be undermined. He was very glad to find that the noble Viscount had gained something by experience. The Government did not seem to have profited in the same manner; for it seemed even yet not to believe that the distress was felt in every part of the country in every branch of business, and felt with unparalleled severity. He thought, for his own part, that the distress was very general, and he was convinced that
963962dsdsssll961960hear959dd958The Duke of Richmond
981, in explanation, said that the noble Duke must know but little of him if he could suppose that anything which he had said had been dictated by personal feeling. He had served under the noble Duke's banner, and bad passed some of the happiest days of his life with him; and if he were to act as his personal feelings dictated, it would be in every case to support the noble Duke. He had alluded to an occurrence in a county in which the noble Duke had a preponderating influence, only to corroborate his assertion, that the English peasantry were
981The Duke of Richmond
957l956llss955lllllllll954lhear, hear, hear! from the Duke of Richmond, and one or twoother Peersllllll953llllllllllllad libitum952llll951950949: I am glad to hear that, for I then have to give the Bank credit for a more judicious management than I otherwise think it would have deserved. But, setting aside that part of the question, I think that the currency is not only insufficient, but that it is unnecessarily limited, and that it might be increased without the slightest danger to the country. I know no criterion by which we are so well to judge of the proper amount of the circulation as by the state of our foreign exchanges. For the last eighteen months those foreign exchanges have been highly in favour of this country, and till the exchanges shall be against us, it appears to me that the currency cannot be too full. The maxim we should adopt on this head ought to be, to keep it, "without o'erflowing, full," and I think that it is desirable to have in this country as large a supply as may be consistent with this principle. The view which I take of the distresses of the country leads me, I confess, to the opinion that those distresses are in part to be attributed to the imperfect system of banking which prevails out of the metropolis. In my judgment, the issues of the country bankers are not regulated by those principles which are likely to prove advantageous to themselves or beneficial to the country. When times of difficulty arrive, the issuers of the country paper immediately take alarm, and contract their circulation with a timidity unfounded and ruinous; and when the prospects of the commercial world undergo a change they immediately begin to issue on a scale so extended as well deserving to be described as rash. If I am asked what remedy I would recommend for this evil, it is this, give increased facility to the establishment of banks. It must, of course, be in the recollection of your Lordships, that after the panic in the year 1826—a panic, the grounds of which were much exaggerated, and the effects not fairly represented—I
957l956llss955lllllllll954lhear, hear, hear! from the Duke of Richmond, and one or twoother Peersllllll953llllllllllllad libitum952llll951950949Viscount Goderich 
985 declared that he had never used such an expression; although
985Viscount Goderich
 said in explanation, that he had included the Dead Weight, for he knew it came eventually from the public—not from the Bank.Viscount Goderich
llll£1,711,000
£1,711,00049,075,000Expenditure
49,075,000Expenditure£50,786,000Revenue
£50,786,000Revenue
£1,711,000
£1,711,00049,075,000Expenditure
49,075,000Expenditure£50,786,000Revenue
£50,786,000Revenuelllll wished to say a few words in explanation. The noble Duke supposed that he had erroneously stated the surplus Revenue of the last two years. What he had stated was, that he found the surplus of the year 1828, after deducting, on the one hand, the payments by the Bank on acccount of the Dead Weight, and, on the other, the payments to the Trustees, was 3,232,000llll£1,711,000
£1,711,00049,075,000Expenditure
49,075,000Expenditure£50,786,000Revenue
£50,786,000Revenue
£1,711,000
£1,711,00049,075,000Expenditure
49,075,000Expenditure£50,786,000Revenue
£50,786,000RevenuelllllViscount Goderich
945: In the opposition which I shall have to make to the Motion of the noble Earl I feel that I have to perform an ungracious, and, perhaps, an unpopular task; and certainly I am under no obligation to be the first to offer any remarks in opposition to this Committee, as that would rather be expected to be the part of some member of the Government. If I had consulted my own ease, I should have abstained from the course which I am pursuing; but if, before the House entered on the consideration of this measure, I felt considerable doubt as to the propriety of concurring in the proposition of the noble Earl, I must confess that the speech we have just heard has most materially confirmed that resolution. I must confess, also, that I did not at all expect that the noble Earl would have confined himself on this occasion to the description of a state of things which no one can attempt to deny—I mean the general distress which prevails in the country, and the duty which lies on your Lordships to do the best in your power to alleviate and relieve that distress. I expected that he would have proceeded to slate something as to the causes which, in his view, had
945Viscount Goderich
948947946: Just so; but then the noble Earl proceeded to describe the proceedings of such a Committee in a somewhat contemptuous style; and though he has complained that the conduct of this House is not such as to command the respect of the country, I must say that the noble Earl's own description is not calculated to raise us in the estimation of the public. It, however, strikes me that it would be easy to describe the proceedings of a Committee of the whole House in terms as ludicrous as those which have fallen from the noble Earl with respect to a Select Committee. It has not been my fortune, since I have been a Member of this House, to attend a Committee of the whole House on any important subject; but do not the King's Ministers sit in a Committee of the whole House? Are not the followers of Government on the same benches, then, which they always occupy? In short, I have heard no objection against a Select Committee which may not be urged with ten times the force against the plan proposed by the noble Earl. Surely, then, no imputation of want of feeling is to be brought against any one for objecting to the mode of proceeding proposed by the noble Earl. According to my view of the case, it has one remarkable objection. He tells you that a Select Committee would go into minuteness of detail, but that a Committee of the whole House would only look at general features. But if we suppose that the people of England are to be satisfied with such a superficial
948947946Viscount Goderich
ldsds would vote against the original Motion and the Amendment, because he expected no relief from the means proposed to be adopted. The noble Duke (of Wellington) had stated that the agricultural distress could not be so great, as meat and timber now bore nearly as high prices as at most other periods. He denied the correctness of the noble Duke's statement as to timber; he (Lord Wharncliffe) could now only get 2ldsdsLord Wharncliffe
925nil said, he would take that opportunity of alluding to a subject which concerned himself personally. Since his arrival in London, he had seen some observations in the last number of a Review, of considerable circulation, with reference to a statement contained in a letter which he had written to the noble Lord on the Woolsack. The noble Lord then proceeded to explain the circumstance to which he alluded, but in so low a tone that he could with difficulty be heard. As far as we could collect, the matter stood thus:—He had written to the Lord Chancellor to inform him that no money had been paid into the hands of the Accountant General of the Exchequer, under the provisions of an Act which had been passed for the purpose of improving the Courts of Judicature of Wales. His ground for making that statement was, that he had moved for a Return of the money which had been paid under those circumstances, and the Return, when presented, was 925nilLord Cawdor
 said, that no person who was acquainted with the noble Lord's fairness and integrity upon all occasions could for a moment suppose that he had entertained any wish to deceive. His object in rising was to call the attention of their Lordships seriously to what were called the Improvements of the Welsh Judicature. He was the rather induced to do so, because he had had very great experience with respect to the administration of justice in this country. He believed, then, that it would be a very great grievance to the inhabitants of Wales to take away from them their Equity Courts. He would mention some facts which would make their Lordships understand how he came to entertain that opinion. The inhabitants of Wales had, if they chose to avail themselves of it, the opportunity of coming to the Court of Chancery of England and instituting their suits there. It would, he believed, be found on examination, that during the twenty-five years in which he had had the honour to hold the Great Seal, the inhabitants of Wales had not thought it expedient to apply very frequently to the English Court of Chancery. They also had the opportunity of appealing to their Lordships if they thought the decisions of their own Courts wrong; and he thought it would be expedient to have an Account laid before their Lordships of the number of Appeals which had proceeded from the Welsh Courts of Equity. How many Appeals did their Lordships suppose there had been in the course of twenty-five years? He spoke from memory which, perhaps, was not so good as it had been some years since, but he recollected only one appeal during that time, and on that occasion the judgment of the Court below was affirmed. As temporary Chancellor for the county of Durham for a short period, he had obtained some experience on the matter, and he was persuaded, that to destroy the Equity Courts of Wales, and of the counties of Chester and Durham, would be productive of great mischief.The Earl of Eldon
 could state, without any difficulty, that thirty years ago, when he had the honour to hold the office of Attorney General, it was not the practice to lay before Parliament the opinions given by the law-officers of the Crown. He remembered it being related of Sir Fletcher Norton, when Attorney General, that in consequence of a motion for the production of an opinion which he had given to the Government, he declared that he would never give a written opinion again, as long as he was Attorney General. If a motion were made for the production of the opinions in the present instance, he would vote against it. But he thought if papers were not to be produced, they ought not to be quoted. That the opinions of the law-officers of the Crown must have considerable influence with the House, was beyond all question. The practice he believed to be, that these opinions ought not to be called for, and that being the case, that they ought not to be quoted. He hoped what had passed would put a stop to the practice of quoting opinions of this nature.The Earl of Eldon
980, in explanation, observed that it seemed to be supposed that he had objected to the small-note circulation; but he had no hesitation in declaring it to be his opinion, that, under proper regulations, the small-note circulation ought to be restored. As to what the
980The Earl of Eldon
971970969 hoped their Lordships would excuse him if he requested the favour of a hearing for a short time. The question before them might, he thought, be compressed into a very small compass. He was not able to come down on the first day of the meeting of Parliament, else, perhaps, he should not have trespassed on their patience at this late period; he could assure their Lordships, however, that he would not detain them long from enjoying the advantage of those views and information which they were likely to receive from the noble Lords who would follow him. He confessed that there was no passage of his life, personal or political, which he regretted more than his absence, all involuntary as it was, on the first day of the Session, when such an extraordinary course of proceeding was adopted by his Majesty's Ministers. He said this, mean-
971970969The Earl of Eldon
972 resumed: He had done his noble friend injustice—not willingly. But he would wish to have this practicable mode of inquiry pointed out; he did not recollect if the noble Lord had told them his mode. Certainly his noble friends had between them suggested fifteen ways of affording ample relief. He would not have spoken that night, were it not for the purpose of recording his opinion, that their Lordships' House was bound to make some inquiry. As to the plans laid before them by his noble friends, he begged to say that nobody would be more willing to defer to their opinions than himself; but he thought, when they possessed the right and power of collecting the opinions of the House of Lords as a House, that this would be a most desirable mode of conducting their inquiry. He therefore would not take a decision upon trust from his noble friends, either as to the causes or the remedies, but he would have it in
972The Earl of Eldon
924 said, he had been requested to present to their Lordships a Petition from certain British-born subjects, called Jews, praying to be relieved from the disabilities under which they at present laboured. The Petitioners represented that in loyalty and good conduct they yielded to no portion of his Majesty's subjects. The noble Lord observed, that in ancient times, under several Christian monarchs, a system of persecution and cruelty had been adopted against the Jews, in which our ancestors had their share. For three centuries they were nominally excluded from this Island. When they were allowed to return, they did not, it was true, suffer the same degree of persecution as before, their condition was gradually ameliorated, but they still laboured under this diffi-
924Lord Bexley
ss938937s936935dss934**d*933ls932sad infinitum931930929 said, that in rising to submit to the consideration of their Lordships the Motion of which he had given notice some days ago, he deeply regretted that the task had not been undertaken by somebody better qualified to do justice to the subject. It would have been more satisfactory to him, and he was sure more agreeable to their Lordships, if the subject had been brought before them by some person whose abilities, eloquence, information, and experi-
ss938937s936935dss934**d*933ls932sad infinitum931930929Earl Stanhope
: I beg pardon. I particularly said, that for such an inquiry as that into the affairs of India, a Select Committee might do.Earl Stanhope
944943de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis942941940939l contended, that if the statements which were periodically published of the Revenue were to be depended upon (and the noble Duke knew better than he did whether they were to be depended on or not) there was a falling-off of the Revenue of the last year as compared with that of the former, of 1,300,000944943de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis942941940939lEarl Stanhope
, in reply, stated that he had not brought forward his Motion, of which he had given due notice from the love, as the noble Duke insinuated, of making a fine speech. He declared that he had no love for talking, but he would at all times freely and unreservedly state his opinion on public affairs. He conceived it was the duty of the people to remonstrate, and of the Peers who felt their grievances to echo their complaints; and if they were not allowed to do so, he should be at a loss to discover the difference between a government practically despotic and theoretically free. The distress of the country was he believed rapidly increasing, and he could look forward to nothing but calamity from neglecting to remedy it. He trusted that he knew what was his duty to his country under such circumstances, and that he should always have the courage to perform it.Earl Stanhope
. — Yes, but in weight.The Duke of Wellington
 observed, that what he had said was, that at present meat and timber both brought prices nearly equal to those which they produced when taxes were much higher.The Duke of Wellington
977lllll976dsldsldsdsdd.,d.,dsdsdsd.;sdsdsdsdsdsdsdsslsldd.,sdsds975cries of no, no.!974 said, he would proceed to notice what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord that had spoken last, and to set the noble Earl right with reference to his misconception of his Majesty's Speech, delivered by the Lords Commissioners, but he would in the first instance beg leave to advert to something which fell from the noble Earl that made the Motion, and from the noble Duke that had spoken in the course of the debate. The noble Earl, although he had stated that it was not his intention to make his Motion personal against him (the Duke of Wellington), yet he certainly did contrive, somehow or other, in most part of his speech to introduce matters entirely personal. The noble Duke had done the same, although he apprehended that the noble Duke especially could not have any personal feelings against him or against the Ministers. He had, however, brought forward an occurrence in a county in which he (the Duke of Wellington) was the Lord-lieutenant, when the noble Duke forgot that he himself was in the neighbourhood, in another county, in which a similar misfortune had occurred. It was their Lordships' duty he admitted, to do all in their power to alleviate the existing distress, but he was sure that no benefit could be derived to the community at large from personal attacks in that House, and from impeaching individuals. The object they must all have was to endeavour to discover the causes of the distress, and to ascertain the means which could be devised to alleviate it. The noble Earl who commenced this debate began by stating that the agricultural population of the country was in a state of the greatest distress, and he was followed in the same strain by the noble Duke opposite. No man felt more confident on that subject than himself, and on the first day of the Session (although his noble friend was not present), he had stated what he now repeated, that he did not entertain the slightest doubt of the distress; but when the noble Duke called upon the House to appoint a Committee of Inquiry into the agricultural distress, he should recollect that the usual course on similar occasions was, to state what substantive measure he intended to propose. Did the noble Earl mean to propose a repeal or an alteration of the Corn Laws? For if he did, he would at once tell him he would oppose him. The Corn Laws could not be repealed without injury
977lllll976dsldsldsdsdd.,d.,dsdsdsd.;sdsdsdsdsdsdsdsslsldd.,sdsds975cries of no, no.!974The Duke of Wellington
979978dsl, in continuation said, his noble friend would find, if he included all these items, that instead of a surplus Revenue over expenditure of three millions, there would be only a million and a half, and that would be its utmost amount, even after all the savings, it was the wish of his Majesty's Government to carry into effect as far as possible. It should be remembered that the savings were not all clear gain to the public; and, moreover, if the savings were not made where they would not fall on individuals, they would do more injury than good. When offices became vacant, the Government always considered whether the public service could not go on without filling them up; and if this were not the case, the next point was to consider whether the place could not be filled by some persons who already received half-pay or pension, so that the half-pay or pension might be saved to the public. They had tried to reduce the list of pensions of the Army and Navy, by not keeping men in the service the full time they ought to serve, according to the original institutions in the Army. As the men were generally willing to take their discharge the amount of their pensions was lessened. He should deceive the House by telling them that savings would be beneficial if they were made at the expense of individuals who must be thrown on the public as soon as the savings were made. With inference to the question of the Silver Currency, which had occupied a large portion of the noble Lord's speech, he should prove that the noble Lord was entirely mistaken. In point of fact, both the metals, silver and gold, circulated now on the same principle on which they had circulated previously to the year 1797. But it was well known that our silver coinage, previous to the war, was much deteriorated by wear and other causes, and was then only a legal tender by tale to the amount of 5979978dslThe Duke of Wellington
 said, that the noble Marquis had altogether misunderstood him. He had stated the fall in the price of the raw material as an evidence, not that we were suffering, for this very fall in the price of the raw material, he admitted had been productive of benefits to our own manufacturers, but he stated it as a proof of those changes in prices which Parliament could not control. He had, indeed, also stated that the fall in the price of the raw material would account for the fall in the price of the manufactured article.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he was entirely responsible for his own acts, and the other members of his Majesty's Government were equally responsible for their acts. He had stated in argument that he considered the acts of the Government justified by the legal opinion which Ministers had received on the subject, and which of course they had felt it their duty to call for. The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack knew perfectly well what the practice was on the subject, and he appealed to him whether it were not the practice to refuse to give up the opinions which the law-officers of the Crown had, when called upon, communicated to the servants of the Crown. The servants of the Crown must take on themselves the responsibility for their own acts.The Duke of Wellington
: My statement of the amount was independent of what was retained by the Bank.The Duke of Wellington
.— No; for such is not the fact.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he certainly was in possession of the opinion which on a former evening he stated to have been given to Government on the subject to which the noble Lord referred; but he believed it was the invariable practice of Ministers not to place such opinions before Parliament.The Duke of Wellington
 moved for a return of the quantity of Oak of British growth, purchased for the use of his Majesty's Dock-yards, with the price paid for it, since the year l809.The Marquis of Salisbury
 said, he was aware of the notoriety of the fact, but as it had been denied last night, he wished to have official proof of it.The Marquis of Salisbury
 observed, that he had given notice of a motion on the subject, and he would then state that the object of that motion would be, to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the office and duties of Overseer of the Poor. He knew that great cruelties were practised on paupers in various places, that they were shut up in pounds, and otherwise treated in a manner that was most oppressive. He wished the Committee to ascertain by what law the overseers exercised this sort of power.Lord Teynham
1004—quæque ipse miserrima vidi. rose to present a Petition from the inhabitants of the town of Frome, in Somersetshire, complaining of distress. The right rev. Prelate said, that the state of misery to which the labouring part of the population was reduced, was unparalleled in the history of the country. What he should state he had seen. He did not derive his information from what he had read, but from what he had seen. He would not speak of things which he did not know to be true, but of things which he had seen with his own eyes.
1004—quæque ipse miserrima vidi.The Bishop of Bath and Wells
 (after stating that there was no objection, he understood, on the part of the noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government to the production of the returns sought) moved that "there be laid before this House an account of the Pensions granted under the 57th Geo. 3rd cap. 65.; also an account of all Salaries granted by the Acts passed the same year."—Ordered.The Marquis of Lansdown
1003 begged to state, that in the motion which he intended to submit, he should cast no censure on the overseers of the poor
1003The Duke of Richmond
 gave notice, that he would move that their Lordships be summoned for Tuesday week, on which occasion he would move for the appointment of a Select Committee to take into consideration the State of the Labouring Classes of the Country. He would not state the precise words in which his motion would be framed, until he had an opportunity of consulting other noble Lords whose opinion he valued. On the present occasion, therefore, he would merely give a general notice to the effect he had stated.The Duke of Richmond
 said, that if the noble Lord's object in moving for the Return, was to show that British timber had suffered a great depreciation of price, the motion was unnecessary, because the fact of the depreciation was notorious.Earl Stanhope
 moved for the return of Foreign Com imported since the 15th of July, 1828, with the weekly averages—Ordered.Earl Stanhope
ss presented a Petition from Mr. John Wright, a coal and iron master, near Nottingham, praying for such a revision of the Cornlaws, as would increase the duties on foreign corn. The petitioner, observed the noble Earl, did not belong to that class of people considered favourable to the landed interest, nevertheless he was well persuaded of the impolicy of the present Corn Laws.ssEarl Stanhope
1060 said, he had to present a Petition from a number of owners and occupiers of land in the county of Kent, complaining of the Distressed State of the Agricultural Interest, and praying for relief. It was not his intention to make any observation on the subject at present, as an ample opportunity would be afforded him for the expression of his sentiments when the motion of the noble Duke (of Richmond) was brought forward. He regretted that he had been prevented, by peculiar circumstances, from laying this petition before their Lordships, prior to the motion of a noble Earl (Stanhope) which had recently been discussed; because he believed, that from the wealth, intelligence, and respectability of the parties from whom it came, it would have commanded some degree of attention. Being on his legs, he wished to ask the noble Duke whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to renew a committee which had been appointed two Sessions ago, for the purpose of inquiring into the finances of the country? The report of that committee had been received with very considerable satisfaction by the people at large, especially as Ministers had declared their intention to reduce the public expenditure to the lowest
1060The Earl of Winchilsea
 said, that in the county with which he and the noble Earl were connected, and he spoke more particularly of his own immediate neighbourhood, it appeared, from whatever cause the circumstance might arise, that there was no want of work. The labouring population were tolerably well employed, and the poor-rates had not increased very much. In some parishes in which he was interested, they were only four shillings in the pound. He admitted, with the noble Earl, that there was great distress, very deep distress indeed, in parts of the county of Kent; but he did not think it was so great as it was supposed to be; and he believed that, generally speaking, though wages were low, there was no want of employment.The Earl of Darnley
 said, he wished to take the opportunity, seeing the noble Earl, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in his place, of asking a question, which, as he conceived, was nearly connected with the honour of this country. In the year 1828, his Majesty's Speech to Parliament announced, "that his Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Russia had consented to waive the exercise, in the Mediterranean Sea, of any rights appertaining to his Imperial Majesty, in his character of a belligerent power." Such was the declaration of his Majesty in February, 1828; but, in the month of October following, they were informed, by a letter from Lord Dunglass, a nobleman holding a situation in the Foreign Office, that his "Imperial Majesty intended to establish a blockade of the Dardanelles, which blockade would be limited to the prevention of vessels bound to Constantinople, and laden with provisions, or articles contraband of War, from entering the Straits; and that, in the opinion of his Majesty's Government such commercial enterprise of his Majesty's subjects, as might have been already undertaken, upon the faith of his Majesty's declaration in Parliament, would not be liable to be affected by that blockade." Nothing could be more inconsistent than these two declarations. Individuals were first induced to act on the assurance given in the Lords Commissioners' Speech, and then came this letter, declaring that a blockade was intended. This was a most extraordinary instance of a rapid change of sentiments; and he wished to know—1061The Marquis
1061
,interrupting the noble Marquis, said, would the noble Marquis allow him to suggest that there was no motion before the House?The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had but a few observations to offer, which would prevent him from introducing the subject hereafter. He wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, whether he was willing to lay before Parliament the correspondence growing out of this transaction which had taken place with Russia, in order that he might be enabled to judge whether the power and dignity of Great Britain had been properly upheld on that occasion.The Marquis of Londonderry
 wished to know, as there appeared to be a final settlement of the affairs of Greece, whether the noble Earl, in consequence of that, would be ready to lay before the House, at an early period, all the documents connected with it.Lord Holland
a laugh..—I suppose I may expect them on the Greek calends, [a laugh.Lord Holland
 answered, that he feared those documents would not be ready so soon as the noble Baron or as he himself wished. It was not in his power to state exactly when they would be ready to be submitted to their Lordships; but the noble Baron might rest assured, that to soon as they could with propriety be laid before the House, they would be forthcoming.The Earl of Aberdeen
1062 assured the noble Marquis that he should receive the most ample information on the subject; and he hoped the noble Marquis would find that the honour of this country had
1062The Earl of Aberdeen
 admitted the necessity of reducing the taxes as far as possible. He agreed in the propriety of that proposition, but he could not be expected, at a moment's notice, to enter into a discussion on the subject of the reduction of taxes and of expenditure. The noble Earl had asked, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to revive the Finance Committee. On that point he had only to answer, that Ministers had no such intention.The Duke of Wellington
1246 said, he felt very great satisfaction at the motion which had just been made by the noble Earl. He was about to present three or four petitions on the subject of the East-India Company's Charter, the prayer of which was similar to the prayer of other petitions which he had already presented with reference to that question. He begged leave to take that opportunity of stating, that the Representatives of various bodies of individuals, in different parts of the country, who were sent to town to watch over the interests of many who were anxiously awaiting the result of this inquiry, had expressed to him, and, he believed, to other noble Lords, a wish to be made acquainted with the proceedings before the Committee, in such manner as might seem most proper to their Lordships, in order that they might be enabled to form an opinion on the evidence (the subject being one in which they felt a deep and important interest), and to judge how far it would be expedient for them to bring forward other evidence relating to this question. He felt, whatever the rules of their Lordships' House might be upon this point, that it was highly necessary and proper for those persons to be made fully acquainted with the proceedings of the Committee, and the subjects to which they directed their inquiry. Many of them understood the question perfectly well; and they possessed information which probably was not before the Committee, and which they were anxious to tender to their Lordships. He confessed that he was one of those who wished that course to be taken, although he was aware that some difficulties might arise in effecting the object to which he alluded, in consequence of the formation of their Lordships' Committees. He gave his full concurrence to any measure which was likely to give to those persons the satisfaction they desired; and therefore he heard with much pleasure the motion of the noble Lord, the President of the Council, who presided over the Committee. That motion arose out of a Resolution which the Committee had agreed to on that day, and which empowered it, from time to
1246The Marquis of Lansdown
s1247 bore testimony to the fact, that very great distress existed throughout the country, not only in the agricultural, but in the manufacturing districts. In consequence of the act of the legislature by which the currency was
s1247The Earl of Stamford
1248 said, that the privation experienced by the people at the present moment was, he believed, universal, scarcely any part of the empire was free from it. Most certainly the pressure was general, and was felt most severely. While, however, he admitted the existence of distress, he must be allowed to observe that, in different places, it differed extremely in degree. It appeared to him, however, that the existence of such a degree of privation as every man knew to prevail throughout England, called urgently for very strong measures at the hands of Parliament, and of his Majesty's Ministers, to meet the exigency of the time. It was the imperative duty of Ministers to do their utmost to diminish those burthens which bore so heavily on the country. He, for one, did not withhold from Ministers that credit which was due to them, for a sincere and honest anxiety to reduce the existing taxes. But he certainly must say, that if the work of retrenchment and the improvement of the country were not speedily undertaken,—if his Majesty's Ministers did not afford the utmost facilities for a full and ample inquiry into the degree and extent to which that retrenchment might safely be effected, and if at the same time the resources of the empire were not permanently enlarged and ameliorated by positive remedies,—the people would have much reason to complain. More than one remedy had been urged
1248Lord Calthorpe
*l1254, in rising to move for a return of all Contracts made for Timber for the use of his Majesty's Dock-yards, since January 1st. 1810,stated that his object in moving for the Return was, to put at rest those differences of opinion relative to the price of Timber which had been lately stated in that House. He wished also to make the Admiralty aware of the necessity of putting a stop to the practice of laying in such a vast stock of Timber as was piled up in the Dock-yards. Large sums were expended every year for the purchase of Timber, which night, he thought, be saved He by no means wished to cripple the efficiency of the Navy, for he believed that to be essential to the national safety—he wished to make no reduction in the number of seamen employed, for that part of the service could not be too effective: he thought, indeed, that the coast blockade might be dispensed with, but he objected to keeping up such an immense dead stock in our Dock-yards, which perhaps might never be wanted, and was purchased apparently only to decay. When the Returns, for which he should move, were laid before their Lordships, they would be as sensible of this as he was. The vote, he
*l1254Earl Darnley
 said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion, but only to assert for himself, that he had a strong desire to make every possible reduction; at the same time he was bound to inform their Lordships, that he did not think a diminution of the supply of the materials of shipbuilding was consistent with the national safety. As long ago as the time of Lord Sandwich, a regulation was made to keep in the Dock-yards three years' supply of Timber, that, in case of any sudden emergency, seasoned Timber might be obtained. The regulation, however, was not carried fully into effect, till the very last year of the late war. He would not enter into details; he would only assure his noble friend, that much less Timber was made use of than formerly, and his Majesty's Government was anxious to reduce the expenditure to the lowest possible scale.—The Returns were ordered.Viscount Melville
s1255ll*ll* rose, to move for some Returns, to which, he said, he understood his Majesty's
s1255ll*ll*The Earl of Malmesbury
 admitted, that it was quite clear, that the retention of those colonies and stations must inevitably be attended with a certain expense; but still he was by no means prepared to say that greater reductions might not be effected.Lord Calthorpe
l12511250 said, there was one point which had not been alluded to when mention was made of our foreign possessions, to which he would call their Lordships' attention: it was a very important point, for the station which he was about to notice had cost this country infinite sums of money, as well as the lives of our best soldiers and seamen. He believed that the subject was somewhat unpopular, but still he thought it right to express his
l12511250The Earl of Malmesbury
1253minimumminimum1252 said, no one could doubt but that his Majesty's Ministers intended to make some reduction; and it must be admitted that some useful reductions had been made in preceding years; at the same time it must occur to
1253minimumminimum1252The Marquis of Lansdown
 presented a Petition from the town of Lowth, in Lincolnshire, complaining of distress. He expressed a hope that the noble Lords whose sentiments he had listened to that evening, would support the motion which he intend to submit shortly.The Duke of Richmond
 presented a Petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Suffolk. His Grace observed, that the object of the petition was to call their Lordships' serious attention to the distressed state of the Agricultural interest, and particularly to the melancholy situation in which the class of labourers was placed. The Petitioners recommended, and in their recommendation he cordially agreed, the most strict and rigid economy; and they prayed for a remission of those taxes which bore most immediately on the labouring classes. Although it was evident that great and extensive distress was felt throughout the country, yet he was not one of those who despaired of seeing that distress alleviated. In the last Session their Lordships were occupied with a question which absorbed all others, and prevented them from looking narrowly into the state of the country; but he hoped that in the present Session, some great and well-digested measure would be introduced—that some extensive and effectual remedy would be devised—for the relief of the labouring population. The interests of the country, and, he might add, the interests of humanity, peremptorily required a measure of that nature.The Duke of Grafton
 moved, that the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the East India Affairs, do, from time to time, report their proceedings to the House.—Ordered.Earl Bathurst
1249ll said, there was no objection whatever, on the part of his Majesty's Ministers, to afford every information in their power, with respect to the expenditure of the country. It could not certainly have escaped the notice of noble Lords, that the estimate of the expense of the country had been very considerably diminished in the present Session of Parliament, in comparison with that of the last and the preceding Session, considering at the same time what reductions had been made in those Sessions on the estimate of former Sessions. He could safely say that he had done every thing in his power, and all the other Ministers of his Majesty had done every thing in their power, to reduce the expense of the country to the smallest possible amount: There was no expense incurred that was not expressly necessary to maintain the honour of the country, and to uphold its interests, extended as they were to every quarter of the world. It was perfectly true that this island was but a small portion of the globe, yet its interests were extended all over the world, and must be maintained, though at a great expense. The expense necessary for the maintenance of the honour and interests of this country was at present only 12,000,0001249llThe Duke of Wellington
 presented a Petition from a person named Clarke, praying for a revision and alteration both of the Ecclesiastical Courts and of the Ecclesiastical Law. He had, it appeared, been a party to a suit in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, where he was defeated. He then carried the cause before the Court of Delegates, who confirmed the former judgment; and finally he applied to the Court of Chancery for a commission of review, which was refused. He was at present a prisoner in the Fleet prison, for a contempt of the Court of Chancery, having neglected to pay into that Court a sum of money according to its order, he being in fact unable, on account of the expense of the proceedings in the Ecclesiastical Courts, to pay it.Lord Holland
1308 stated the facts of the case. It appeared, that the petitioner Thomas Clarke, had had some property devised to him to the prejudice of the next of kin, who sought to set aside the Will on the ground of the insanity of the Testator. The cause was first argued before Sir John Nicholl, and afterwards before the Court of Delegates, both of whom concurred in setting aside the Will. The Lord Chancellor contended, that the judgment of Sir John Nicholl, and the affirmation of that judgment by the Court of Delegates, were perfectly in accordance with the circumstances disclosed before them. He had felt it to be his duty to refuse the commission of review, because
1308The Lord Chancellor
 said, a return had been laid upon the Table of the amount of country bank-notes stamped in the last three years, and of the unstamped notes allowed for at the Stamp Office. There appeared to be a progressive increase in both respects. He wished to know whether this account included Scotland; and if it did not, whether there would be any objection to furnish a return, distinguishing the amount of notes in the two countries.Lord Goderich
1343 said, the account did include Scotland, but it might be difficult to distinguish between those parts of it which related to the two coun-
1343The Duke of Wellington
l. presented a Petition from the Tanners of Linlithgow, praying for a repeal of the remaining Tax upon Leather. The noble Lord observed, that he entirely concurred in the prayer of the Petition. The remission of the Leather-tax that had already taken place was productive of no benefit to the public, although it took 400,000l.The Earl of Rosebery
s.s.71s. said, he could not concur in the propriety of reimposing the Leather-tax, though he agreed with the noble Earl in stating, that the public had derived no benefit from its having been taken off. When Mr. Pitt gave up the 3s.s.71s.The Earl of Malmesbury
 did not recommend the re-imposition of the Leather-tax; on the contrary, he thought it advisable to repeal the remaining duty, which gave rise to restrictions that prevented the public from enjoying the benefit of the repeal that had already taken place. The public had derived no advantage hitherto; all the benefit fell into the hands of a few great capitalists.The Earl of Rosebery
 presented a Petition, signed by all the respectable inhabitants residing in the town of Liverpool, of the Jewish persuasion, for the removal of the disabilities under which they laboured. This being the first opportunity which he had enjoyed of stating his opinion on the subject, he should say that he knew of no reason connected with the faith which these individuals professed, or with their personal conduct, which ought to preclude them from a free admission to those equal advantages of a civil nature that had been so wisely extended to others. This was not. an occasion on which it would be proper to say more on the subject, and he should only add, that he had seen with satisfaction an intimation that a bill for the relief of the Jews was shortly to be brought into the other House of Parliament.The Marquis of Lansdown
72 was well aware, that the public did not receive that relief which might reasonably be expected from a reduction of taxation upon the raw material. The evil arose from our want of those municipal regulations which existed on the Continent, and by which corporations and magistrates
72Earl Stanhope
l.s,*l.s,*l.*l.l.160s.d.,s.s.d.s.s.s.l.l.,d.s.s.159l.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l. wished to obtain returns of the proceeds of two different descriptions of Stamp-duties, in one of which, he, as a land-owner, felt a particular interest; and the other of which included the interests of many classes of the community. As the day was approaching, on which it was intended to submit to the other House of Parliament the usual annual financial statement, he thought he could not do better than advert to the subject at that moment. He alluded to the Stamp-duties upon Conveyances of Life-hold property, and he wished to call their Lordships' attention, for a short time, to the subject. In some of the western counties in which he possessed landed property, it was usual for cottagers to hold their cottages on lives; and the custom was a good one, as it encouraged the breeding up (if he might use the expression) of a respectable class of cottagers. When these individuals had children, they naturally desired to put their children's lives in their leases as well as their own; and the usual fine for adding one life to two others in such case was (according to his own experience, and he believed, it was the same in the case of other parties) 5l.s,*l.s,*l.*l.l.160s.d.,s.s.d.s.s.s.l.l.,d.s.s.159l.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.The Earl of Malmesbury
de facto163162161 said, since he came into the House, he had received a request from his noble friend (the Duke of Richmond), whose Motion for a Committee to inquire into the State of the Country, more particularly as regarded the employment of the labouring classes, originally stood for that day, but which had been put off in consequence of circumstances which must be to their Lordships a source of great regret, to give notice that his noble friend would submit his motion to their Lordships on that day week. Accordingly, he would do so, and would move that the House be summoned for that day.—Ordered. The noble Baron proceeded to say, that, seeing some noble Lords, members of his Majesty's Government, in their places, he wished to put two or three questions to them concerning the relations subsisting between this country and Portugal. He was the rather disposed to do so, as in the several communications made to Parliament, from time to time, respecting those relations, there seemed still to remain (notwithstanding all that had been said on the subject) a considerable degree of ambiguity. In order that noble Lords should fully understand the questions, it might, perhaps, be necessary for him to refer to the communications with which the House had been favoured on the subject. On the 28th of July, 1828, Parliament was informed, in the
de facto163162161Lord Holland
 wished to know concerning the "pending negotiations?"Lord Holland
 said, he was not prepared at that moment with any notice of motion on the subject of our proceedings in reference to Portugal. However, he wished to make one or two observations upon what had fallen from the noble Lord. In answer to the first question proposed to him, the noble Earl stated, that the negotiation entered into between this country and the head of the House of Braganza, took place, not at Rio de Janeiro, but at London. He did not care which way it might be, but as to the fact that "His Majesty has entered into negotiations with the head of the House of Braganza, in the hope of terminating a state of affairs which is incompatible with the permanent tranquillity and welfare of Portugal," as stated in the Speech from the Throne, at the commencement of the Session of 1829, his wish had been, to ask the noble Earl whether he considered those negotiations as completed and concluded; and he understood the noble Earl to say, that they were concluded, and that another negotiation, undertaken by us in conjunction with, but not under, France, was to be considered a separate and new negotiation.Lord Holland
167 wished to return his thanks to the reverend Prelate who had introduced the Bill, the principles and enactments of which, generally speaking, met with his warm approbation. It was very disadvantageous, very galling, particularly where property was concerned, to leave the authority uncertain by which marriages could be rendered valid. He believed that much inconvenience had arisen for want
167Lord Holland
 said, if the noble Lord's suggestions were acted on, some of the most important clauses of the Marriage Act would be nullified. By that it was provided, that the marriage should take place where the banns were published. It had been his object to provide a remedy for doubts in past cases of inadvertence: but he would not be a party to remove the obstacles to clandestine marriages. The noble Lord was not perhaps aware, that the last clause of the Bill related only to one chapel, and that might be more particularly described. As the law stood, the bishop of a diocese had the power, with the consent of the incumbent, to authorise the publication of banns in any consecrated chapel; but he wished to give the bishop the power independently of the incumbent. He believed that at Macclesfield, which contained from 20,000 to 30,000 inhabitants, most of them had to go four miles to a chapel because the incumbent refused to allow the banns to be published in any other.The Bishop of London
 said, he was to understand, then, that France was no party to the negotiation originally, and that she was a party to the present negotiation. He would ask, was Spain a party to this negotiation? The noble Earl talked of our having undertaken the negotiation in concert with our other allies. He therefore wished to ask whether Spain was a party?Lord Holland
 replied, that the Court of Spain was no party to the negotiation. He might also as well observe, that the Court of Austria was a party, and that throughout the whole of the negotiations France had full cognizance of all that had been done by us from the very first, although she had not, until recently, acted prominently in the matter, and in direct concert with this country.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, the noble Lord did not appear fully to understand him, and had rather misinterpreted what he had said. The present negotiation, or communication, could hardly be considered as an entirely separate and new one, because it had the same object in view as the original negotiation. What he wished the noble Lord to understand was, that our original negotiation with the Emperor Don Pedro had arrived at such a state that there was little prospect of its successful issue. The present negotiation, which we had undertaken in concert with France, was in continuation of the previous one which we had conducted by ourselves, and could hardly be considered a separate negotiation, although undertaken in direct concert with France and our other allies. It was true that before, although acting with a perfect feeling of unanimity and concert with other powers, we acted by ourselves, and that now we were acting in direct concert with our allies, still it was for the attainment of the same object as we originally had in view.The Earl of Aberdeen
165.—It could hardly be considered as a negotiation—a communication had been made by us, in concert with France and our allies, to Don Pedro—the subject was yet pending: it was impossible to say more on the point. With respect to the subject of the declaration supposed to have been made by some members of the Government to the effect that, in consequence of pending negotiations, certain papers could not be laid before Parliament, he must observe that, assuming this statement to have been made, nothing could be more true than that while negotiations were pending, it must be impossible to produce papers relating to such negotiations; and when the time came for producing them, probably the noble Lord would see very good reasons why they were at the present moment withheld. This he said in reference to the general principle of not disclosing prematurely the subject of negotiations which were in progress; but he did not know that any such declaration as the noble Lord appeared to imagine had, in fact, ever been made in reference to the present proceedings. What he understood was, that the papers in question had been refused on the ground that their production might be injurious to a numerous class of persons about whom every one felt naturally interested. He thought it was more with the view of avoiding the possibility of
165The Earl of Aberdeen
164 replied, that the negotiation to which the noble Lord alluded, as having being entered into by us with Don Pedro, in the summer of 1828, was considered to be brought to such a close as deprived us of all prospect of a successful result with respect to it. In fact, no negotiation, in the proper sense
164The Earl of Aberdeen
l.158 in presenting a Petition
l.158The Duke of Wellington,
 said, that he had had an opportunity of ascertaining, by the votes on their Lord-ships' Table that a proposition exactly similar to one their Lordships had frequently rejected when he had submitted it to them, had been agreed to the night before by the other House of Parliament. That proposition was for a Select Committee to inquire into the condition of the Irish Poor. It was not his intention then to say any thing on the subject, but he would now give notice, that on Tuesday next he would call the attention of the House to the condition of the Irish Poor, in order to know what were the intentions of Ministers upon the subject.The Earl of Darnley
 said, he held in his hand a Petition which, he believed, was the first of that nature that had as yet been decided upon by all the merchants of London engaged in the private trade to India. Many of these individuals had expressed their opinions upon the subject separately, upon various occasions, but this was the first time that they had con-jointly sent forth in a public manner their views and sentiments. It had been stated that the merchants trading privately to India from the Port of London differed in their opinions upon the subject, from the merchants who were engaged in a similar traffic at the out-ports of the United Kingdom. He was, therefore, requested to state, that the petitioners gave it as their opinion, that it was highly desirable that some alteration should be made in the Company's Charter. In this opinion he concurred and recommended the Petition to their Lordships' consideration.The Marquis of Lansdown
, in presenting a Petition from the Coal-whippers of London, praying their Lordships to remedy certain abuses in the Coal-trade, observed, that the Committee sitting up-stairs was likely to throw much light on the monstrous frauds committed in the port of London with respect to the article of Coals. He was happy also to say, that he believed the Corporation of the City of London would come forward and remedy these evils. He had observed, indeed, that a measure was in progress in another place, to substitute the practice of selling coals by weight, for selling them by measure, which would tend greatly to remove the abuses.297The Marquis of Lon-
297
, in giving notice, that he would, on Friday next, move the second reading of two Bills, one relating to the Property of Lunatics, and the other to Contempt of the Court of Chancery, informed their Lordships, that his Majesty had been graciously pleased to issue two commissions; one authorising Lord Tenterden to act as Speaker to their Lordships' House in the absence of the Lord Chancellor; and the other authorising Lord Wynford to act as Speaker in the absence of Lord Tenterden and the Lord Chancellor. The two Commissions were, on the Motion of the Lord Chancellor, read by the clerk.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he was quite ready to make such a motion; but he begged to remind the noble Duke, that this was by no means the first petition which had been presented on the subject, so that it could hardly be new to the Government. The noble Duke called himself (as no doubt he was) a friend to the Shipping Interests; but he declined to take any means for in-creasing the freights of the Ship-owners. He would give notice of his motion on a future day.Earl Stanhope
, in presenting a Petition from the Shipowners of Kingston-upon-Hull, praying that a reduction of the expenses in every department of the Government might be effected, and that means might be taken to produce a more equal distribution of the burthens of the people, observed, that it was no answer to the complaints of the Ship-owners, to show that a large amount of tonnage was employed, for he could prove, that in that respect, the greatest possible fallacies existed; for though the amount of tonnage was considerable, the freights were very low. He wished to ask the noble Duke at the head of the Government, whether he had any objection to the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the state of the Shipping Interest?Earl Stanhope
 replied, that he did not understand the noble Earl to have shewn any ground for appointing such a Committee. If the noble Earl made a motion upon the subject, he should be better able to give it a direct answer.The Duke of Wellington
298 said, he had not declined to do any thing that would assist the Shipping Interest. All he had said was, that he could not adopt means to benefit them, by raising their freights,
298The Duke of Wellington
367 rose, according to notice, to call the attention of their Lordships, as he had frequently done before, to the most important subject of the adoption of a system of Poor-laws in Ireland. The poor in England, it was well known, were entitled to relief, and he would certainly recommend that some law should be adopted to afford a compulsory relief to the sick, the aged, and the infirm in Ireland. He saw that his noble friend (the Earl of Limerick) on the other side was already prepared to take the alarm, and to give his decided opposition to any project of the kind, as he had done before, when he took occasion to call the attention of their Lordships to this subject. He must admit, that on that occasion, his proposition was not particularly well received. But since that time, a considerable change had taken place in public opinion with respect to the Poor-laws; and political economists in England, Scotland, and Ireland, as well as others, had come over to his opinion. He was far, however, from meaning to advocate the introduction into Ireland of the same system of Poor-laws as prevailed in England; but when he could prove, as he had offered to do on a former occasion, that people in Ireland had died of want in the streets and highways, it was high, time to adopt some method of compulsory relief for the aged, the sick, and the helpless. How far the compulsory relief should go, he was not then prepared to say. It might, perhaps, be asked, why he did not move for a Committee of In-
367Earl Darnley
369 said, that as his noble friend opposite had not made any motion, nor proposed any specific measure, he would not at present waste their Lordships' time by entering at length into the discussion. His noble friend had alluded to the information which the Representatives of the Irish Peerage might give the House on this subject. As for himself, labouring as he was under severe indisposition, he could not pretend to give their Lordships much information, but any that he could give would not be in favour of the establishment of the Poor-laws in Ireland. His noble friend had truly stated that he had started the subject some years ago in this House, on which occasion he was supported by the petition of one man, who, having nothing else to do, thought proper to turn his attention to the state of Ireland; and he recollected that the petition was received with a loud laugh. But now his noble friend said, that the political economists and others had come over to his opinion. This was owing to the march of intellect, he supposed; but neither by march of intellect, nor by political economists, nor by any other influence, would he be persuaded to support any wild schemes of innovation. There were too many of them afloat already; and whether the line of conduct which he should feel it his duty to pursue should be palateable or unpalateable, he would oppose them. If his noble friend had proposed to appoint a committee, he should certainly have opposed the motion; for if that course were adopted, it would excite undue expectations on the one hand, and great alarm on the other. It would be a most alarming step to the gentlemen of landed property in Ireland. Their Lordships had only to look at the effects of the Poor-laws in some parts of England to form some idea of what would be the consequences of the system in Ireland. He particularly alluded to the county of Buckingham, where the Poor-rates had reached to the exorbitant height of 20s. in the pound, and where the system was most oppressive to the property of the place, without affording adequate relief to the indigent and
369The Earl of Limerick
370 was desirous to say a few words on the subject, which he considered as one of considerable importance. His noble friend near him (the Earl of Limerick) had said, that the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry would have been attended with mischievous effects, by exciting unreasonable expectations on one hand, and creating great alarm on the other. But if so, the mischief was already done; for the appointment of the committee by the other House would have the same effect. He really thought that his noble friend should have moved for a committee. He did not think that it was always the best way for their Lordships to take their information from the other House, and sometimes the information could not be had in time. For instance, when the New Police measure came before the House—a most important measure, even in a Constitutional point of view, but a good one as it had turned out—he had moved that a message should be sent to the Commons to desire that they would send up the evidence taken on the subject before their Committee, but it did not come till the second reading of the Bill. His noble friend had said that there were other committees, particularly the East-India Committee, now sitting, which occupied the attention of many of their Lordships. But there were surely sufficient numbers among their Lordships for a Committee on this subject also. And if it should be desirable that those who sat on the East-India Committee should sit on this Committee also, why should they not sit on alternate days. He had no doubt but the Members of the Committee in the other House would do their duty, but at the same time
370The Earl of Malmesbury
371 said, he would tell the noble Earl why the committee appointed by the other House would not give rise to the mischief's which he apprehended from the appointment of a committee of their Lordships on the same subject, if it took place at the suggestion of the noble Earl. The committee of the other House was moved for by a near relative of his, whose views on this subject were too well known, and too clearly stated, to be misunderstood, or to cause apprehension. As to the advantage of examining upon oath, on such a subject, he really did not see it, because an opinion could not be increased in value by the sanction of an oath. It might prove the sincerity, but could not prove the correctness, of the opinion. For instance, in the case of Irish vagrants, and the importation of black cattle, both of which had been complained of as hard-
371The Earl of Limerick
 did not mean to flatter the wit of his noble friend, but certainly passing these Irish travelling gentlemen was a heavy expense, and the Irish landlords should defray it.The Earl of Malmesbury
 said, that nothing could be more satisfactory than what had fallen from the noble Duke (Wellington) on this subject. He was glad that the laws relative to grand-juries in Ireland were to be amended; for he would venture to say, that under the present system, sources of more iniquitous jobs than the means of employing the poor by the grand-juries were no where to be met with. With respect to the introduction of the English system of Poor-laws in Ireland, he wished to express no opinion; but it seemed as if some change were necessary. Whenever a noble Lord or hon. Gentleman thought he had discovered a grievance in the administration of the Poor-laws, he immediately proposed to introduce a new law to be added to the heap of regulations already in existence, which was but too large and complicated without further additions. No necessity whatever had been made out for an inquiry before a committee of their Lordships' House, or for a new law on the subject. He spoke this of the Poor-laws generally. In the county with which he was more intimately connected, there were many defects in the operation of the Poor-laws, and much pressure was occasioned by them, principally owing to a mistaken administration of the present law. By recurring to the original principles of the law of Elizabeth, Poor-rates might be made, not the reward of idleness, but the safe-guard of illness, age, and infancy. We should not then be aiding those who preferred doing nothing, and receiving a small pittance from the parish, to working in order to obtain the full wages of labour, which it was once the pride of the people of this country to do.The Duke of Buckingham
 agreed with his noble relative as to the general inexpediency of appointing a committee on this subject, but there were reasons which induced him to think a committee ought to be appointed. One of these was, that a committee was already formed in the House of Commons; but whether the House granted a committee or not, he trusted, that if any measure should be proposed to Parliament, as the result of the labours of the committee in the House of Commons, their Lordships would meet it with a fair, a deliberate, and unprejudiced consideration. He wished especially that some measure should be adopted to remove from the mind of the English agriculturalist the belief that the introduction of a system of Poor-laws into Ireland would prevent the immigration of the labourers from that country to this. He doubted much whether that immigration was an evil; but even if it were so, it was, like many other evils now the subject of complaint, much exaggerated. Considering the period at which Irish labourers came into this country, he did not think the fanners would be much obliged to Parliament for putting an end to their immigration, which occasioned a beneficial competition for labour at a time when labour was most in demand; and, above all, that their Lordships, as landlords, would not be inclined to put an end to the system. Supposing, however, that the system was an evil, he would ask whether the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland was likely to prevent these immigrations? He must say that he was far from anticipating that such would be the result. He had not heard any one but the noble Duke who sat near him even suggest the notion of transplanting into that country the abused and vicious system of the Poor-laws of England.The Earl of Wicklow
 assured the noble Earl, he had not recommended any such thing; for he had not yet made up his mind on the subject.The Duke of Buckingham
373 observed, that to attempt such a measure would be like attempting to transplant the forest of Hampshire into the rocks, bogs, and wilds of Connemara. There was another objection to the system of the Poor-laws. They tended to seal up the sources of private benevolence, and he was sure that in that respect they would be mischievous in their effects in Ireland. Such was now the
373The Earl of Wicklow
374 observed, that there would be no possibility of recurring to the system of Elizabeth, as the noble Duke (Buckingham) desired, without a parliamentary inquiry, for many parts of the law, as it might be supposed to have existed at that period, were exceedingly vague and undefined. If the House agreed to the appointment of a committee to investigate the state of the Poor-laws in this country, we might have an opportunity of recurring to the sound system of relieving the poor who deserved relief, instead of empowering every overseer who pleased, to pay a portion of the wages of labour out of the Poor-rates. This practice prevailed in Dorsetshire. He could not agree with those noble Lords who thought that the immigrations of Irish labourers were not a grievance; he thought them a very great grievance. These people came over and worked at very low wages, and in a great measure took the bread out of the mouths of the English labourers, and that at a time when the English labourers would otherwise be able to make enough money to save themselves during the worst parts of the year, from applying for parochial relief. At such times these Irish labourers came over, subsisted for a few weeks before the busy time came on, either by beggary or petty robbery, and afterwards threw themselves on the parish to be passed back again to Ireland. Was it fit that so many persons should regularly leave their own country, to come here on foraging expeditions? He thought not, and that the fact that they did so was a sufficient ground for the House to interfere on the subject. He
374The Marquis of Salisbury
in toto, could not sit quietly in his place and listen to the imputations thrown out by the noble Marquis upon the conduct of the Irish labourers who visited this country. What! was it owing to the hoards of Cossacks—the invasion of savages, who robbed, plundered, begged, and carried away, truly, the wages which ought to be devoted to the support of English labourers, that we had this stir made about providing for the Irish poor? This was the boasted philanthropy and regard which noble Peers expressed for the aged, the impotent, the sick and blind. It was a selfish feeling then that was at the bottom of all this outcry about humanity and religion: they wanted to deprive their own people, who were united to them by the closest ties, who bled and died for them, of common international advantages. Good God! what, were the men who defended the country with their blood, and expended their labour in its cultivation, to be denied the privilege of bringing that labour to the best market, at the time when they could dispose of it to the greatest advantage? When the Irish labourers came to this country to work, they were to be branded as beggars, plunderers, and vagabonds! He denied the statement in toto,The Earl of Limerick
 did not mean to offend the noble Earl, or the people of Ireland, but he supposed the noble Earl would hardly take on himself to answer for the honesty of every Irish labourer that came over to this country; and the Quarter Sessions attested the fact, that just about the time of their immigrations, the numbers of petty robberies were considerably increased.The Marquis of Salisbury
375 thought, no case had been made out for a committee with reference to Ireland, though there were certainly strong grounds for a committee with reference to England, both as to the Poor-laws themselves, and their administration. He trusted our abominable system would never be introduced into Ireland, where, in fact, the machinery of that system would not work; but if it could, the effect must be most injurious to the country. He wished, in common
375The Marquis of Clanricarde
 gave notice, that on Monday next he should submit a Motion to their Lordships upon the business of the Court of Chancery, and that he should take that opportunity of explaining the measures now in progress, relative to the amendment of the general administration of the laws of the country.The Lord Chancellor
376 said, that however they might differ among themselves as to the means, the object of all was to provide relief for the aged, and the infirm, and the needy part of the population of Ireland.
376Earl Darnley
, in reply to the charge of giving an opinion upon a subject of which he had been stated to be perfectly ignorant, and in answer to the accusation of not being acquainted with the condition of the county which his Majesty had intrusted to his care, declared, that all his experience proved—and he had studied the subject with some attention—that the pressure of the Poor-rates in his county was caused by the overseers applying them in part payment of the wages of labour. In this opinion he was supported by the magistrates of the county, and he assured the noble Earl, that he had not expressed an opinion without having made himself master of the subject.The Duke of Buckingham
366, in presenting a Petition from the Dyers and Manufacturers of Norwich against the Tax on Sea-borne Coals, said, that this was a most unjust tax, and when so many taxes were taken off it was most unfortunate that this was not among the number. It was a direct tax on productive labour, and fell particularly heavy on the petitioners, as coals were essential to the use of the machinery by which their trade was carried on. To shew their Lordships the effects of this tax he would mention one curious fact. The people of Norwich were actually obliged to send their wool to Yorkshire to be spun, and after being spun, it was sent back to Norwich to be manufactured into camlets and other stuff's. This was entirely owing to the cheapness of fuel in Yorkshire, which enabled the people there to apply the steam-engine to the purpose of spin-
366Lord Wharncliffe
s. could not lose that opportunity of protesting against the opinions now expressed, particularly by the noble Duke (Buckingham), as to the abuses of the administration of the Poor-laws. The real cause of the present high amount of Poor-rates was not the abuses of their administration, but the want of employment for the poor, occasioned by our mistaken policy. The noble Duke ought to be better acquainted with his own county, where this was the obvious cause of the sufferings of the poor. It was impossible that, any mal-administration of the Poor-rates should have increased them 20s. or 30s.Earl Stanhope
 admitted, that the maladministration of the Poor-laws might have some effect in producing the evils complained of; but contended, that the policy lately adopted had still more powerful effects. To say that English labourers considered the Poor-rates as a means of escaping from work, was a libel on one of the most useful classes of men in the country.Earl Stanhope
368, in compliance with the desire of the noble Earl, stated that the Ministers had it not in contemplation to introduce at present anything like a general system of Poor-laws into Ireland. But at the same time he had to state to their Lordships that the state of Ireland had engaged the particular attention of his Majesty's Government, and several measures were in contemplation, which either directly or indirectly had for their object, and he trusted would have the effect, of affording relief to the aged and infirm, and the sick, and of giving work to the able-bodied poor. In the first place, there was a measure for the relief of the labouring poor, by having them employed by the Grand Juries. Again, there was a measure for the care of natural children, although that was one which would require a great deal of revision and caution before it was passed into a law. Another measure went to provide the City of Dublin with the means of creating an hospital for the distressed, in the same manner as means were provided for that object in the counties in Ireland, by the
368The Duke of Wellington
 moved that this Bill be read a third time.The Earl of Rosslyn
a vinculo matrimonii,440439‡ Ibid. p. 1712.† Archbishop of Canterbury, (Sutton) ibid. p. 1710.***438***437436435bonâ fidebonâ fide434bonâ fide433432 rose for the purpose of explaining to their Lordships the reasons why he was obliged, but with feelings of pain and regret, to dissent from the Motion. Perhaps he owed some apology to their Lordships for having taken up this business at so late a period, and he should be extremely sorry if inconvenience resulted to any of their Lordships by the course he had felt it his duty to adopt.
a vinculo matrimonii,440439‡ Ibid. p. 1712.† Archbishop of Canterbury, (Sutton) ibid. p. 1710.***438***437436435bonâ fidebonâ fide434bonâ fide433432The Earl of Radnor
444443442vinculo matrimonii, said, that he rose, with the utmost reluctance, to support the view which his noble friend, if he would allow him to call him so, had taken of this subject. He felt, however, as he trusted all their Lordships felt, that in the discharge of a public duty they must lay aside all feelings of personal consideration, and take with firmness and with impartiality that course which was consistent with equity and justice. He had attended personally during the examination of the witnesses called in support of this Bill, but all their Lordships might be as well acquainted with the evidence as he was, as it had since been printed. With the manner, however, in which the case had been conducted, none but those who had been present could be acquainted. It was true, as the noble Lord had stated, that the case failing as to the identity of the parties, new evidence had been adduced on that point. That new evidence had, he confessed, made a very strong impression on his mind. Let him remind their Lordships that the Bill before them was something more than a divorce, and that, in passing such a bill, their Lordships exercised a dispensing power, placing the applicant in the same state in which he had been before marriage, and absolving parties from the most solemn engagement into which mankind could enter. Deeply impressed with the importance of such measures as these, he had made it his business to inquire how many such Divorce Bills had been passed by their Lordships during the last ten years. And allow him here to observe, that he could not help feeling that nothing was more calculated to injure the morals of that class to which he had the honour to belong, than the belief that Divorce bills were to be procured with anything like facility. Let him beg of their Lordships to recollect that the middle and lower classes were excluded from this species of relief from matrimonial engagements. The expense consequent on the proceeding in such cases shut out all but persons of fortune from the means of instituting them. This of itself formed a distinction not very desirable, between the rich man and the man of no fortune. It was a distinction which ought not to exist. If certain grounds were sufficient for separation a 444443442vinculo matrimonii,The Earl of Malmesbury
"My dearest Edward,—I know you will believe me when I say I feel myself utterly unequal in writing to you to-day. I cannot thank you for your kindness, but entreat you will not think of making me such an allowance; indeed it is more than I can possibly want. I will send back the green box to-morrow morning.—Ever, ever yours, JANET.""To the Lord Ellenborough, &c., Connaught Place."[Envelop subscribed.]446"If my aunt has misunderstood any expres-
446"Forgive me if I do wrong in writing to you. A note just received from Lady Anson seems to imply that you have expected it. I had begun a letter to yon this morning, thanking you from the bottom of my soul for your unbounded kindness in act and manner: it was far more than I deserved, and I am deeply grateful. I again renew all the assurances I gave you last night, that in act I am innocent. I hardly know what or how to write to you. I dare not use the language of affection: you would think it hypocrisy. But though my family naturally wish all should be again as it once was between us, those feelings of honour which I still retain towards you make me still acquiesce in your decision. I continue to think it just and right. I have not been able to speak to them on the subject I confessed to you last night. I have spoken little to-day, but have never for an instant swerved from my own original opinion. I write this to you. If it is possible, for you to keep what I have said from them, do; as they would only set it down as another proof of unkindness on my part. Could you write me a line, through Henry, were it only to tell me your opinion, be assured I should think it right. But, oh! Edward, dear, dear Edward! ought not time, solitude, and change of scene, to be tried by me, to conquer or obliterate sentiments so inimical to our mutual peace? Pray write to me all you think upon the subject—all you wish me to do. I will now answer you candidly, and without a shade of deception. God bless you, dearest Edward. JANET.""R—[Roehampton], Saturday night. said, that he begged leave, in the first place, to say, that if any one insinuated that there had been collusion in the present case, he should most unequivocally repel such insinuation. The principal objection of the two noble Lords was, that the evidence was insufficient with respect to the terms on which Lord and Lady Ellen-borough lived. Upon that point he was totally at issue with the noble Lords; and when they objected that a relative of Lord Ellenborough was called, they seemed to forget that the relatives of the parties were almost always called, both in cases there and in cases before juries, to prove the terms on which the parties lived. But the noble Lords had also very strangely forgotten, that besides the evidence of Mr. Law and of Miss Steele, there were the letters of Lady Ellenborough herself, which were worth a hundred witnesses upon such a point. He would beg leave to read them to their Lordships; they were sent by Lady Ellenborough to Lord Ellenborough after the separation:—
"My dearest Edward,—I know you will believe me when I say I feel myself utterly unequal in writing to you to-day. I cannot thank you for your kindness, but entreat you will not think of making me such an allowance; indeed it is more than I can possibly want. I will send back the green box to-morrow morning.—Ever, ever yours, JANET.""To the Lord Ellenborough, &c., Connaught Place."[Envelop subscribed.]446"If my aunt has misunderstood any expres-
446"Forgive me if I do wrong in writing to you. A note just received from Lady Anson seems to imply that you have expected it. I had begun a letter to yon this morning, thanking you from the bottom of my soul for your unbounded kindness in act and manner: it was far more than I deserved, and I am deeply grateful. I again renew all the assurances I gave you last night, that in act I am innocent. I hardly know what or how to write to you. I dare not use the language of affection: you would think it hypocrisy. But though my family naturally wish all should be again as it once was between us, those feelings of honour which I still retain towards you make me still acquiesce in your decision. I continue to think it just and right. I have not been able to speak to them on the subject I confessed to you last night. I have spoken little to-day, but have never for an instant swerved from my own original opinion. I write this to you. If it is possible, for you to keep what I have said from them, do; as they would only set it down as another proof of unkindness on my part. Could you write me a line, through Henry, were it only to tell me your opinion, be assured I should think it right. But, oh! Edward, dear, dear Edward! ought not time, solitude, and change of scene, to be tried by me, to conquer or obliterate sentiments so inimical to our mutual peace? Pray write to me all you think upon the subject—all you wish me to do. I will now answer you candidly, and without a shade of deception. God bless you, dearest Edward. JANET.""R—[Roehampton], Saturday night.The Earl of Rosslyn
 There is no precedent for receiving such evidence.The Earl of Malmesbury.
448447 in continuation, contended that there were innumerable
448447The Earl of Rosslyn,
 wished to explain. He had never said that he disbelieved Mr. Law's evidence. What he said was, that twenty persons might have been selected who could have spoken of the terms on which Lord and Lady Ellenborough lived much better than Mr. Law. That gentleman left England on the 3rd of March, 1827, and did not return till the 29th of March, 1829. Therefore he, for one, did not think that Mr. Law was so competent a witness as many other persons who might have been brought forward. With respect to the letter which had been read, he begged leave to say, that he was present when counsel opened this case; and what did he say with respect to that letter? Why, he stated, that there was a manifest contradiction between it and her subsequent confession. In the letter she declared that she was not criminal to the extent imputed to her; but, in her confession to Miss Steele, she fully admitted her guilt. Now, when he found one fallacy in that letter, why might he not suppose that other parts of it were drawn up to meet a particular purpose? He therefore placed no reliance on that letter.The Earl of Malmesbury
hearhear454453452 felt himself called on to trespass on their Lordships very shortly, while he made a few observations in reply to the objections urged against the Bill by the noble Earl near him, and by the noble Earl opposite. This bill was founded on an allegation of adultery—and it was brought in, in consequence of the fact of adultery having been sufficiently substantiated. That adultery, as had been justly slated by the noble Baron who had just addressed their Lordships, was proved so clearly and unimpeachably, that nobody who had heard the evidence could for a moment doubt the fact. But then it was stated, that it was necessary that the preamble should be proved, or, in other words, that evidence should be given that the adultery had been committed with a particular individual. The noble Lord who spoke early in the debate said, that though he felt no doubt in his mind as to the fact of the adultery having been committed, yet there were points of a doubtful nature connected with the case which ought to have been cleared up. He, however, thought that quite sufficient had been proved to authorize their Lordships to proceed. That which occurred at Brighton had been most clearly and unequivocally established; and he thought, independently of Lady Ellenborough's confidential communication to Miss Steele on that subject, that it was proved, and even beyond a doubt that it was Prince Schwartzenberg who slept with Lady Ellenborough at Brighton: though that fact was confirmed by the private and confidential communication of Lady Ellen-borough herself. But he did not wish to rest on that evidence, as to the proof of adultery, particularly as other facts were stated by counsel at their Lordships' bar. Their lordships, he was sure, would agree with him, that the adulterous transactions which took place in Harley-street and Holies-street were distinctly and clearly proved; and on these occasions the identity of the lady, not of Prince Schwartzenberg, was unequivocally substantiated. The evidence placed that matter beyond a doubt, if their Lordships believed' the witnesses. Those witnesses spoke of seeing the same lady driven by a particular individual to Prince Schwartzenberg's. That individual was called to their Lordships' bar, and he stated, that he had
hearhear454453452The Lord Chancellor
455 said, that it was in vain to hope for a unanimous vote in favour of this Bill; for he certainly should oppose it on the grounds he had stated. He wished to state that he had formed his opinion of the measures solely by the evidence he had heard in that House, and knew nothing of the reports prevailing out of doors. He denied that he had imputed collusion to Lord and Lady Ellenborough; what he said was, that if the parties wished for collusion, they could not have acted in a way more fit for their purpose than they, had done. If their Lordships' passed that bill, they would preclude themselves from ever again rejecting similar bills; and he was sure that principle would be contrary to their Lordships' usual course of proceeding. He did not look to have that kind of affection proved at their Lordships' bar which was necessary to entitle a man to relief in a court of justice; but he expected that parties coming there to ask for a divorce should be able to prove that they had done nothing to cause the injury of which they complained. To have that justification of such a demand, a man should at least be able to shew that he had treated his wife with affection, and kindness, and attention. But could there be any affection in the case, when, for twelve months before the parties separated, Lady Ellenborough was in the habit of going two or three times a week to the lodgings of Prince Schwartzenberg, for the purpose of prostituting herself, doing it even in the most indecent manner, often
455The Earl of Radnor
 then put the question, "that the Bill be read a third time." There were some cries of "Not Content," but the Lord Chancellor declared that the Contents had it. No division took place, and the Bill was read a third time and passed.The Lord Chancellor
451450449 said, he had paid the utmost attention to the evidence in this case, and it appeared to him that a stronger
451450449Lord Wharncliffe
 presented a Petition from Dursley, Gloucestershire, complaining of Distress, and praying for relief. Also a similar Petition from Frome, Somersetshire, pointing out the opening of the trade with India as one of the means of relief.The Marquis of Lansdown
476 presented a Petition to the same effect from the merchants and manufacturers of Manchester, assembled at a public meeting. This Petition was signed by 10,000 persons; and the reason the number of signatures was so limited was, that the petitioners were anxious to send it up in time to be presented before the Noble Duke (Richmond) made the Motion, the notice of which stood on their Lordships' Table for discussion this night. It was placed in his hands the day before the first notice of this Motion was given. The petitioners set forth what they conceived to be the causes of the present distresses of the country, and also suggested what appeared to them to be the most appropriate remedies. Two remedies had been suggested—one was the opening of the trade to China, and another was the reduction of taxation to that state in which it stood in the year 1791. They complained of the keeping up an enormous standing army, which swallowed up so much of the revenue of the country, and prayed for a reduction of the taxes in that respect, and also for a reduction in the salaries and allowances of public officers, and generally in the amount of expenditure of every description. The great, enormous, and unnecessary load of taxation they represented as the main cause of their grievances, and they contended, that after all the reductions which had been made, there were many articles in which a great reduction of duties might still be made, and great relief given; and they instanced particularly those cases in which the
476The Earl of Caernarvon
505504l503 expressed his cordial satisfaction at the able and feeling manner in which his noble friend had brought under the consideration of their Lordships the faithful picture of the distress which pervaded the great body of
505504l503The Earl of Winchilsea
510s509508507quo animo506 said, that no one could join more cordially than he did in the sentiment of satisfaction expressed by the noble Earl, at the manner in which the noble Duke had been enabled to perform his duties, after the indisposition which he regretted, both on public and private grounds. The noble Duke's proposition was divided into two parts—one embraced the consideration of the labouring poor, the other an inquiry into the state of taxation, and its effects on the productive industry of the country. His objection to the Motion was, that it was too comprehensive. If either of the two questions had been proposed, the House might have
510s509508507quo animo506The Duke of Buckingham
511 observed, that it was a good system of parliamentary tactics to endeavour to draw away the attention of the House from the subject of debate; which had been done by the noble President of the Council and the last speaker. The question had nothing to do with currency or free trade; even these and several other topics had been debated. He had nothing to do with the question of a constitutional or an unconstitutional state of parties, but was willing to give Government his support where he could. He felt some difficulty in forming his judgment so as to guide his vote on a motion for an inquiry into the state of the poor, after a debate on taxation, paper currency, manufactures, and the various subjects which had been brought before the House. With respect to the distress of the country, he had heard, with surprise, from the noble Duke (Buckingham), that the labouring classes felt less distress than any others; that as long as the Poor-rates existed they had no reason to complain, for as long as any thing could be got from
511The Marquis of Salisbury
 explained. He had stated that the labouring poor considered and believed that they had a claim upon the land,—not that they had really a right to the land.The Duke of Buckingham
ds continued. The explanation did not much alter the state of the ease, because it did not touch upon the important point whether the poor were in a state of distress or not. He contended that there was no period in which the poorer class had suffered so much. No parliamentary return indeed had been made to show the extent of the distress; but when he heard the notice of the noble Duke's Motion, he took measures to inform himself on the subject, and he had applied to every parish in the county in which he lived (Hertford) in order to obtain the number of persons unemployed. He would state to the House the result. Out of the whole population of the county, which, by the population register of 1811, was 62,920, the number of males between fifteen and seventy was 34,874, and the number of the working classes out of employ in the county amounted to the alarming sum of 2,200 persons, being six and a quarter per cent on the males, or three and a half per cent on the whole population. Taking this to be a fair criterion of the state of the country, and the Poor-rates were far less in Hertford than in several other counties, being 5dsThe Marquis of Salisbury
 inquired to what period this account was made up.The Earl of Rosslyn
 replied, to the 1st of March: and if that number were unemployed on the 1st of March, the number during the winter,—inclement as it was,—must have been more considerable. But even if it was anything approaching to this number,—one-half or one-third,—there never was a subject which called more for parliamentary inquiry. With respect to taxation, the country, as far as he could judge, was grateful for the relief which his Majesty's Ministers had afforded it; but in his opinion, a parliamentary inquiry into the state and nature of the existing distress was, nevertheless, necessary.The Marquis of Salisbury
513partial wished for an opportunity to explain why he had supported a Motion of his noble relative, for a Committee to inquire into the state of the poor in Ireland while he meant to oppose the present. The Motion of his noble relative was for an inquiry into an evil which was permanent in its nature and duration; the noble Duke, however, wished to inquire into an evil which was new and temporary. With respect to the existing distress, great difference of opinion prevailed as to its causes, extent, and duration. Though several causes had been assigned, yet there was one which appeared to have been generally overlooked. This was the peculiar circumstances attending the last harvest, which had been gathered in, owing to the state of the weather, at a far greater expense than usual. Perhaps this had not been sufficiently considered by landlords when the rents became due, after paying which, the farmers were so exhausted, that they were compelled to dismiss their labourers. This accounted in a great measure, for the increased number of paupers. As to the extent of the distress, a great deal of severe remark had been made on the word 513partialThe Earl of Wicklow
d515dddsddll514 observed, that he rose principally to make some remarks on what had fallen from the noble Duke opposite (Buckingham). He had objected to the Motion because it was proposed in an unwholesome and unconstitutional state of parties. He (Lord Radnor) could not understand what this meant. The noble Duke said, that such was the state of parties, that a moderate Whig agreed with a true-blue Tory, and therefore the Motion was an unconstitutional thing; but this rather appeared an argument in its favour, and showed that it was so just and proper, that persons who differed upon all other subjects agreed upon this. If the noble Duke's statement respecting the improvement in the manufacturing districts, were correct, and there was really no distress, he wished that the noble Duke would go into the committee, if it were only to show how greatly the people were mistaken. Their Lordships had had a voluminous Petition laid upon their Table that night, signed by 10,000 persons, from no unimportant place—Manchester,—which proved that this great town had not yet discovered that improvement in the stale of their business which the noble Duke had announced. The noble Duke had said, that the class who suffered the least from the distress was the poor. The noble Duke was, he believed, an active magistrate; but he must say that in his magisterial capacity be found the case to be very different, and that the distresses of the poor were increasing. It was not long before the time when he began to act as a magistrate that the plan was introduced into his neighbourhood, by a benevolent individual in
d515dddsddll514The Earl of Radnor
496495494493492491 expressed his entire concurrence in the Motion of his noble friend, whose arguments, he hoped, when their Lordships came to vote upon the question, would be found to have made as great an impression on the minds of other noble Lords, as they made on his own. They appeared to him so convincing, that he thought the noble Karl's objections to the proposition entitled to but little consideration. His noble friend's proposed inquiry divided itself into two branches—first an investigation of the internal state of the country, with reference to the condition of the working classes; and secondly, an examination of the effect of taxation upon productive industry. He thought that no valid objections could be taken, either to the subject or the manner of the inquiry. The subject he had just stated, and as to the manner of the
496495494493492491The Earl of Mansfield
501lll500l observed, that the noble Earl (Bathurst) who had alluded to what fell from him on a former night, relative to the silver standard of coinage, had not met his argument fairly. It was very true, as the noble Earl said, that in 1717, when Sir Isaac Newton settled the currency, gold was made the standard. He had not disputed that fact. But the noble Earl must know, that the current gold coin was made conformably to the price of silver. The noble Earl stated what was perfectly correct, when he said, that in 1774 an Act of Parliament was brought in, limiting to the sum of 25501lll500lThe Earl of Rosebery
.—It was excluded one year, and included the next.The Marquis of Lansdown
516 did not mean to lay any stress on that word: but allow him to express his opinion, that the noble Lord
516The Earl of Radnor
517 said, that the noble Earl had misrepresented his noble friend in the greatest possible manner, when he said that his (Earl Bathurst's) speech went to support the present Motion. His noble friend had complained, and very properly, that the terms of the Motion embraced every possible subject of inquiry, and had said that consequently the inquiry would be interminable. The Motion extended to an inquiry into the condition of labourers of all classes, whether in agriculture or in commerce: it extended to artisans of all descriptions; and in order to make the inquiry at all satisfactory, the nature of the employment of such labourers must be examined. Again, the inquiry, by embracing the operation of taxation on productive industry, involved that which was confessedly the most difficult question in the whole range of political economy. This was his noble friend's objection to the committee, and in that objection he fully concurred. The noble and learned Lord at the Table had said, that he should be happy to vote for an inquiry limited in its nature and duration; and they had also heard admissions from other noble Lords, that the various subjects included in the proposed inquiry, ought to be investigated separately. These seemed to be so many reasons against the Motion. But the real question was,—would this inquiry prove satisfactory to the country, or beneficial to the labouring classes? He had no hesitation in saying it would not. Suppose it should be granted, and suppose the noble Lords who were inclined to support this Motion by their speeches as well as by their votes, were all members of the committee; the noble Earl (Stanhope) at the Table would begin by proposing the unlimited issue of paper, the natural effect of which would be the expulsion of metallic currency; another Bank restriction,
517The Earl of Rosslyn
, interrupting the noble Earl, said, he never proposed that silver, as now coined, should be the standard, but that gold and silver concurrently, at the market-price, should form that standard.The Earl of Rosebery
520519ll518, in continuation. Even that depreciation would be a relief, he was ready to admit, but then, it would be a relief of the same fraudulent nature as an alteration of greater extent in the standard. He preferred the bolder proposition of the noble Earl at the Table, and would rather say at once, we could not pay our debts, and, like other bankrupts, openly cheat our creditors than do it, to a certain extent, by these covert means. But the point from which he had been drawn was this—the various, the discordant opinions of the noble Lords who would meet upon the committee. This discrepancy of opinion appeared as strongly as to the extent and nature of the proposed inquiry, as it appeared in the topics to which he had alluded. The noble Lord had told them that this committee might propose a commutation of tithes; and as if this were not wandering far enough from the mark, another noble Lord had suggested, that the committee might make many useful suggestions to landlords as to the management of their property and their estates. Thus, every interest, commercial, manufacturing, and mechanical,—the commutation of tithes,—the operation,
520519ll518The Earl of Rosslyn
l521 said, that he had proposed to recur to a silver standard, and he did it partly from thinking that the present standard was so completely an experimental one, that we could not permanently adhere to it. What he wanted was, that silver, not gold, should have been made the standard of the currency. As far as a concurrent standard of both metals was concerned, one must be subordinate to the other; and he would have had silver, allowing gold to pass at an agio. He would also say one word on the subject of small notes. He attributed the present distress, which was different from that of former years, inasmuch as it affected both farmers and manufacturers, to both classes being deprived of their usual home market, which grew, in his opinion, out of the distresses of the agriculturists, caused by the alteration relative to the small notes. He had anticipated, in 1826, these results, and had then pointed out the danger to credit, and the general distress which must ensue, if their Lordships put an end to the small notes. As he had then anticipated also, the people had been reduced to paupers. He believed that there were more small notes in circulation than the Ministers thought, and that their measure was more sweeping in its consequences than they had expected. This state of things might, he confessed, have been advanced or influenced by other causes, as well as by the currency. He
l521The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he should vote against the Motion, because he thought it could lead to no beneficial result, and because he was of opinion, that the conduct of Government, in the reduction of taxation, and in the promise of farther reduction, deserved and invited the confidence of their Lordships and of the country. By the appointment of such a committee as that now proposed, he was very much afraid that they would only excite hopes which they would find it impossible to realize.Earl Gower
 said, he should also oppose the Motion, because he could not bring himself to believe that it could lead to any good practical result.The Earl of Darnley
Omnia bene acta nostro Marte agentur523522 said that, after the vote he had given on a former occasion, he felt it necessary to trouble their Lordships for a few minutes in explanation of the reasons which induced him to vote in favour of the noble Duke's Motion. He must confess that he was a little surprised at the course which his noble friend (the Earl of Darnley) near him, had declared that he should adopt; for, if he were not very much mistaken, the last time he had heard his noble friend speak, he had taken credit to himself for having proposed an inquiry into the condition of the labouring classes of Ireland, which inquiry the other House of Parliament had just consented to institute, though their Lordships had refused to follow its example. But his other noble friend (the Lord Privy Seal) had surprised him still more, when he painted the evils and dangers which would result from the institution of the inquiry proposed by the noble Duke; for his Majesty's Ministers, as he understood, had already agreed elsewhere to appoint a
Omnia bene acta nostro Marte agentur523522Lord Holland
524 agreed with the noble Baron who had just spoken, that this was not the country in which it would be proper to adopt the principle of absolute government, but he thought that the noble Lord could not impute to the Government any intention of arrogating to themselves the right of doing every thing that was to be accomplished for the people. The Ministers objected to the appointment of the committee moved for, because they thought that the object proposed could not be accomplished by means of that committee. The appointment of the committee would hold out expectations which could not be realized. It had been said, that noble Lords of all opinions had been appointed as members of the committee sitting on the East India affairs; but let their Lordships remember, that that committee was to deal with facts, and the one moved for now was to deal with opinion. He never knew a committee, the business of which was to examine into facts, which thoroughly investigated the subject; and he would ask their Lordships, what would be the result, if a committee was appointed to
524Lord Ellenborough
528lll527ll526525 had at first only intended to state his reasons for supporting the Motion before the House, but after the speech of the noble Lord, he felt bound to stand up in favour of the practice of Parliament, and to maintain the utility
528lll527ll526525The Marquis of Lansdown
3,3592,706Casually relieved
3,3592,706Casually relieved598547In the workhouse
598547In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
3,3592,706Casually relieved
3,3592,706Casually relieved598547In the workhouse
598547In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.4791,230700Casually relieved
1,230700Casually relieved1,010900Out-door paupers
1,010900Out-door paupers220156In the workhouse
220156In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
1,230700Casually relieved
1,230700Casually relieved1,010900Out-door paupers
1,010900Out-door paupers220156In the workhouse
220156In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.*179*150Casually relieved
*179*150Casually relieved158125Out-door paupers
158125Out-door paupers6241In the workhouse
6241In the workhouse
*179*150Casually relieved
*179*150Casually relieved158125Out-door paupers
158125Out-door paupers6241In the workhouse
6241In the workhouse16040Not before included
16040Not before included1,395446Casually relieved
1,395446Casually relieved620605Out-door paupers
620605Out-door paupers458171In the workhouse
458171In the workhouse
16040Not before included
16040Not before included1,395446Casually relieved
1,395446Casually relieved620605Out-door paupers
620605Out-door paupers458171In the workhouse
458171In the workhouse226170Casually relieved
226170Casually relieved400326Out-door paupers
400326Out-door paupers14095In the workhouse
14095In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
226170Casually relieved
226170Casually relieved400326Out-door paupers
400326Out-door paupers14095In the workhouse
14095In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.ll478ll477 said, that he rose for the purpose of calling the attention of their Lordships to a Motion of which he had given notice. In doing so, he must confess that he could not avoid looking with great apprehension at the task he had undertaken,—not because he entertained any doubt of the propriety, nay, of the absolute necessity of the inquiry he meant to propose, but because he was fully sensible of his own want of ability, of his own want of experience, and of his own want of information, to cope with a question of so much importance, and of so great extent,—a question worthy to engage the splendid talents and the great acquirements of many of the noble Lords whom he saw around him, and whose assistance and support he trusted he should receive on the present occasion. The Motion he should have the honour to submit to their Lordships was, "that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the internal state of the country, so far as it related to the condition of the working classes, and to the effect of taxation on productive industry." In order to entitle himself to call upon their Lordships to give their support to this Motion, it would be necessary that he should prove that there was something peculiar,—something which, while it was productive of present mischief, was pregnant also with future calamity, in the condition of that portion of his Majesty's subjects to which his Motion related. Many cases of severe dis-
3,3592,706Casually relieved
3,3592,706Casually relieved598547In the workhouse
598547In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
3,3592,706Casually relieved
3,3592,706Casually relieved598547In the workhouse
598547In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.4791,230700Casually relieved
1,230700Casually relieved1,010900Out-door paupers
1,010900Out-door paupers220156In the workhouse
220156In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
1,230700Casually relieved
1,230700Casually relieved1,010900Out-door paupers
1,010900Out-door paupers220156In the workhouse
220156In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.*179*150Casually relieved
*179*150Casually relieved158125Out-door paupers
158125Out-door paupers6241In the workhouse
6241In the workhouse
*179*150Casually relieved
*179*150Casually relieved158125Out-door paupers
158125Out-door paupers6241In the workhouse
6241In the workhouse16040Not before included
16040Not before included1,395446Casually relieved
1,395446Casually relieved620605Out-door paupers
620605Out-door paupers458171In the workhouse
458171In the workhouse
16040Not before included
16040Not before included1,395446Casually relieved
1,395446Casually relieved620605Out-door paupers
620605Out-door paupers458171In the workhouse
458171In the workhouse226170Casually relieved
226170Casually relieved400326Out-door paupers
400326Out-door paupers14095In the workhouse
14095In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.
226170Casually relieved
226170Casually relieved400326Out-door paupers
400326Out-door paupers14095In the workhouse
14095In the workhouse1830.1826.
1830.1826.ll478ll477The Duke of Richmond
 presented Petitions from Barnes, and two other places in Surrey, praying for the repeal of the Malt Tax; from three hundreds of Newport, Bucks, complaining: of Distress, and praying for relief; and from Spilsby, Lincolnshire, complaining of Agricultural Distress, and particularly of the Wool Laws.The Duke of Richmond
538537d536 said, in reply, that he could not help expressing the feelings of astonishment with which he had heard the speech of the noble Lord, the President of the Board of Control. If that speech had been uttered out of the House, he should have designated it a libel on Parliament. If it were spoken out of doors, and there was no law sufficiently strong to reach such language—language in the highest degree inflammatory—he should then wish that a law might be framed for that purpose. That was the feeling with which he heard the speech of the noble Lord. But, on reflection, he feared that he had misunderstood the noble Lord; for surely the noble President of the Board of Control could not have been speaking of the House of Lords. No; he was opening the doors of the Cabinet—and informing their Lordships, that there presided in that Cabinet one man of great and commanding talent, who carried every thing as he pleased. He admitted the great talents and industry of that noble Duke, and he believed, that if he were properly advised and informed, he was the man who would do essential service to the country; but, unfortunately, that noble Duke was not so advised. The noble President of the Council, though he said that he would vote against the Motion, conducted his argument in such a way, that many noble Lords must have thought that he had risen to second it. Ministers did not oppose the Motion in a plain and direct manner; but they met it by the hacknied plea, that it ought to be refused, not because it did not rest on sufficient grounds, but because, forsooth, it was got up from factious motives. Was that an answer which would satisfy the country? Was it an answer which would satisfy any man with an upright, honest, and feeling mind? If it were got
538537d536The Duke of Richmond
llll490ll489488487ll486 said, if his noble relation had moved for a Select Committee to ex-
llll490ll489488487ll486Earl Bathurst
.—I never used the word "compel."Earl Bathurst
502 said, that after the best consideration which he had been able to give to the subject, he had come to the conclusion that the distress of the country was by no means so general as it was attempted to be made out. He felt it due to those who framed the Speech which was delivered from the Throne at the opening of the Session, to state that the nature of the existing distress was, in his opinion, correctly described in that document. If he were to contrast the present situation of the country with what it was in the year 1822, he should say that the comparison was in favour of the present period. In 1822, the complaints pf distress amongst the farmers were much
502The Marquis Camden
499a laugha laughsds498497 rose, with great regret, he said, to address their Lordships for a short time. But, however painful the subject was, he could not avoid delivering his sentiments on it, as he felt a most sincere desire to make one struggle more for the relief of his country. If their Lordships wished to preserve the link which connected the highest and the lowest class in the empire, they must investigate the distress which now existed, and they must make plain and intelligible what the causes of it were, and point out the remedy by which it might be alleviated. They ought to prove to the people that they entertained a real desire to remove their evils. The great peculiarity of this country, beyond all others, was this—that we were, from the lowest of us to the highest, dove-tailed into one common connexion with each other, and one class could not suffer without affecting the others. He did most sincerely hope and trust that their Lordships would endeavour to satisfy the people that they would do their utmost to ascertain the cause of the distress, and that they would, after mature deliberation, declare whether some mode of relief could or could not be devised. He should support the present Motion, remembering the
499a laugha laughsds498497The Earl of Eldon
535per se534 gave his cordial support to the Motion of his noble friend, the Duke of Richmond. The question was, whether the country were not afflicted from one end to the other with distress unparalleled in our history—of intolerable pressure, which
535per se534Earl Stanhope
533532531, in continuation, thought the noble Marquis would find that his statement was correct, and that the matter in question was excluded from the inquiry, because it was considered impossible at the time to come to an agreement upon it; and besides, it was thought a subject too important to be
533532531The Duke of Wellington
530529 quite concurred with the noble Marquis who had just sat down, that it was desirable for their Lordships to adhere to the usual practice of Parliament, in making inquiries, such as that proposed, by means of committees; but he was also of opinion, that in these matters their Lordships ought to adhere to the practice of Parliament entirely and closely, and that practice had invariably been to this effect;—That when a noble Lord moved for the appointment of a committee of inquiry on any particular subject which he wished to bring under consideration, he stated specifically to the House what was the object which he intended to effect by means of a committee. That was the invariable practice in moving for such committees: and when he found it departed from in the present instance,—when he observed that it was very doubtful what was to be the particular object of the proposed committee, and that several noble Lords who had supported the Motion had each stated a different subject forinquiry,—he thought the House had reason to doubt whether there was not some object in the present Motion beyond that which appeared on the face of it. The noble Duke, in bringing forward the subject, stated that it was a motion for inquiring into the internal state of the country, with a view to the condition of the labouring poor, and in order particularly to ascertain the manner in which taxation affected productive industry. As the noble President of the Council truly stated, there was not a single branch of the Government, or of the internal policy of the country, which might not, and would not, come under discussion before a committee appointed according to the terms of this Motion. Each of the noble Lords who supported the Motion stated a
530529The Duke of Wellington
618617femmes couvertesfemmes couvertes,616pro confesso,alias pluries alias habeas corpus;pluries alias habeas corpus;alias habeas corpus,habeas corpus,615pro confesso,pro confesso.614pro confesso. said, he rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move the second reading of three Bills, the object and nature of which he would endeavour to explain very shortly to their Lordships. The first was entitled "a Bill for altering and amending the law regarding Commitments by Courts of Equity for Contempts, and the taking bills 618617femmes couvertesfemmes couvertes,616pro confesso,alias pluries alias habeas corpus;pluries alias habeas corpus;alias habeas corpus,habeas corpus,615pro confesso,pro confesso.614pro confesso.The Lord Chancellor
 thanked the noble and learned Lord for the very lucid illustration he had given them of the subjects comprehended in these Bills, which he must be allowed to observe came from a most respectable and satisfactory quarter. He thought that legal amendments could be in no safer hands. He now rose merely to ask a question of the noble and learned Lord. A clause in the second Bill enabled the trustees and guardians of an infant to grant leases: and he begged to know if this clause would extend so far as to enable them to grant a lease of the family mansion, and of the domain belonging to it, for twenty-one years. If it would, such a lease might be made when the infant was nineteen years old, and so a man might be forty years of age before he could inhabit his own mansion.The Earl of Malmesbury
619 said, that the general terms of the clause would include such a case; but the noble Earl would recollect, that no lease could be made by a guardian or trustee, without application to the Court of Chancery; and it would be supposing the height of indiscretion in
619The Lord Chancellor
 was fully sensible of the advantages of the clause; but as the noble and learned Lord seemed to think that the extreme case he had supposed might be included in it, he thought there would be no harm in. specially excepting the family mansion and the domain belonging to it. He would move, therefore, in the Committee, that no lease, for a longer time than that at which the heir would be of age, should be granted of the family mansion and the domain belonging to it.The Earl of Malmesbury
692691nisi prius690689l.l.l.688l.l.1.l.687686685684683682681680nisi prius.in banco679678nisi prius,677676675 rose, to make, he said, his promised statement concerning the improvements in progress and in contemplation, in the modes of procedure in the Courts of Law and Equity, and Ecclesiastical Courts, as he had given notice he would do on occasion of moving the first reading of a bill connected with those improvements. His object, on the present occasion, was to explain the general nature and description of those measures of improvement so that their Lordships might be the better able to understand the separate provisions as they came in detail before them. He felt himself more particularly called on to do so, as the subject was mentioned in his Majesty's Speech at the opening of the Session, and the attention of the two Houses of Parliament called to it. His Majesty had then stated, that his attention had been of late earnestly directed to various important considerations connected with improvements in the general administration of justice: their Lordships must therefore be prepared to expect some communication similar to that he proposed to make. He should not feel it necessary however to enter into any details, from the consideration that each measure must be particularly submitted to their Lordships' attention as they all came successively before Parliament. All he proposed to do at present was, to lay before their Lordships the general scope of the proposed improvements. Even of this he was aware, that the several parts might appear dry and forbidding; but their Lordships would no doubt recollect that these were matters of the utmost importance to the liberty, property, and even the lives of the subject, and would therefore be disposed to listen with the attention the matter deserved. In the first place, he solicited their Lordships' attention to what had been done, and what was intended to be
692691nisi prius690689l.l.l.688l.l.1.l.687686685684683682681680nisi prius.in banco679678nisi prius,677676675The Lord Chancellor
693 said, it had been intimated to him that he had inadvertently
693The Lord Chancellor
744Jura neget sibi nata, nihil non arroget armis.Jura neget sibi nata, nihil non arroget armis.743742"Non oportet in mari, allerius principis continenti proximo, leges dare, sed accipere, quum ibi sumus subditi, non seats ac in ejusdem territorio.""Non oportet in mari, allerius principis continenti proximo, leges dare, sed accipere, quum ibi sumus subditi, non seats ac in ejusdem territorio."Nulla siquidem sit ratio, cur mare, quod in alicujus imperio est et potcstate minus ejusdem esse dicamus, quam possum in ejus territorio.""Nulla siquidem sit ratio, cur mare, quod in alicujus imperio est et potcstate minus ejusdem esse dicamus, quam possum in ejus territorio.""It is not possible, then, without injustice, to enter its territory in arms to pursue and capture a guilty person. Such an act affects the safety of a state, and is injurious to the rights of sovereignty or supreme authority, which belong to monarchs. This is what is termed a violation of territory, and nothing is more generally recognized among nations than this, as an injury that should be repelled with vigour by any state that will not submit to oppression."741Hear hear," from the Duke of Welton.740739"That the use of force in intercepting these unarmed vessels, and preventing them from anchoring and landing their passengers in the harbour of Porto Praia, was a violation of the sovereignty of that state to which the Island of Terceira belonged; and that the further interference to 'compel these merchant ships or transports to quit the neighbourhood of the Azores,' was an assumption of jurisdiction upon the high seas, neither justified by the necessity of the case, nor sanctioned by the general law of nations.""That these unarmed merchant ships and passengers were prevented by his Majesty's naval forces, sent for the purpose, from entering the harbour of Porto Praia; and that after they had been fired into, and blood had been spilled, they were compelled, under the threat of the further use of force, again to proceed to sea, and warned to 'quit the neighbourhood of Terceira, and the rest of the Azores, but that they might proceed wherever else they might think proper.'"That in the beginning of January, 1829, a number of Portuguese subjects or soldiers of her said Majesty, voluntarily left this country with a view of repairing to the said Island, and that their departure and destination were known to her Majesty's Government, that they appear to have embarked and sailed in unarmed merchant ships, to have been unaccompanied by any naval force, and themselves without any arms or ammunition of war."That on the arrival of the Naval force sent to Terceira, in pursnance of the instructions, the commanding officer found that Island in the possession of, and governed by, the authorities above mentioned."That on the said 12th of December, instructions were given by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, stating that a considerable number of Portuguese soldiers and other foreigners were about to sail in transports from Plymouth to Falmouth, and it is supposed they intend making an attack on Terceira or other of the Western Isles, and his Majesty having been pleased to command that a Naval force should be immediately despatched to interrupt any such attempt, you are hereby required and directed to take the ship and sloop named in the margin under your command, and to proceed with all practicable expedition to Terceira, and having ascertained that you have succeeded in reaching that Island before the transports above alluded to, you will remain yourself at Angra or Praia, or cruising close to the Island in the most advisable position for interrupting any vessels arriving off it; and you will detach the other ships as you shall deem best for preventing the aforesaid force from reaching any of the other Islands.738"That on the said 12th of December, the Island of Terceira, part of the dominions of
738"That prior to the 12th of December, 1828, her Majesty the Queen, Donna Maria 2nd, had been recognized by his Majesty, and the other great Powers of Europe, to be the legitimate Queen of Portugal; and that at the period above-named the said Queen was residing in this country, and had been received by his Majesty with the accustomed honours of her royal rank. said, that in rising to introduce the Motion on which he had given notice, he felt how inadequate his powers were, to bring it forward in that manner which its importance deserved; perceiving, however, the vast consequences of the principle involved in the course of policy to which he objected, and fearful, if passed over in silence, that what had been done at Terceira should be drawn into a precedent, he thought he should be guilty of a dereliction of his duty if he did not bring it under their Lordships' consideration. The papers which had been laid before the House by the noble Secretary opposite, did not contain, in his opinion, information as ample as the House had a right to expect on this important subject. There was one document in particular, the absence of which he regretted,—he meant the protest of Count Saldanha, against the attack made on the vessels sailing to Terceira, by Captain Walpole,—because he knew that the principle for which he contended was there very fully and very ably laid down. There was, however, in the documents before the House sufficient information on the affair to warrant him in bringing it under the consideration of their Lordships. Before he proceeded further, he would read the Resolutions which he intended to submit for the adoption of their Lordships. The noble Lord then read the following Resolutions,
744Jura neget sibi nata, nihil non arroget armis.Jura neget sibi nata, nihil non arroget armis.743742"Non oportet in mari, allerius principis continenti proximo, leges dare, sed accipere, quum ibi sumus subditi, non seats ac in ejusdem territorio.""Non oportet in mari, allerius principis continenti proximo, leges dare, sed accipere, quum ibi sumus subditi, non seats ac in ejusdem territorio."Nulla siquidem sit ratio, cur mare, quod in alicujus imperio est et potcstate minus ejusdem esse dicamus, quam possum in ejus territorio.""Nulla siquidem sit ratio, cur mare, quod in alicujus imperio est et potcstate minus ejusdem esse dicamus, quam possum in ejus territorio.""It is not possible, then, without injustice, to enter its territory in arms to pursue and capture a guilty person. Such an act affects the safety of a state, and is injurious to the rights of sovereignty or supreme authority, which belong to monarchs. This is what is termed a violation of territory, and nothing is more generally recognized among nations than this, as an injury that should be repelled with vigour by any state that will not submit to oppression."741Hear hear," from the Duke of Welton.740739"That the use of force in intercepting these unarmed vessels, and preventing them from anchoring and landing their passengers in the harbour of Porto Praia, was a violation of the sovereignty of that state to which the Island of Terceira belonged; and that the further interference to 'compel these merchant ships or transports to quit the neighbourhood of the Azores,' was an assumption of jurisdiction upon the high seas, neither justified by the necessity of the case, nor sanctioned by the general law of nations.""That these unarmed merchant ships and passengers were prevented by his Majesty's naval forces, sent for the purpose, from entering the harbour of Porto Praia; and that after they had been fired into, and blood had been spilled, they were compelled, under the threat of the further use of force, again to proceed to sea, and warned to 'quit the neighbourhood of Terceira, and the rest of the Azores, but that they might proceed wherever else they might think proper.'"That in the beginning of January, 1829, a number of Portuguese subjects or soldiers of her said Majesty, voluntarily left this country with a view of repairing to the said Island, and that their departure and destination were known to her Majesty's Government, that they appear to have embarked and sailed in unarmed merchant ships, to have been unaccompanied by any naval force, and themselves without any arms or ammunition of war."That on the arrival of the Naval force sent to Terceira, in pursnance of the instructions, the commanding officer found that Island in the possession of, and governed by, the authorities above mentioned."That on the said 12th of December, instructions were given by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, stating that a considerable number of Portuguese soldiers and other foreigners were about to sail in transports from Plymouth to Falmouth, and it is supposed they intend making an attack on Terceira or other of the Western Isles, and his Majesty having been pleased to command that a Naval force should be immediately despatched to interrupt any such attempt, you are hereby required and directed to take the ship and sloop named in the margin under your command, and to proceed with all practicable expedition to Terceira, and having ascertained that you have succeeded in reaching that Island before the transports above alluded to, you will remain yourself at Angra or Praia, or cruising close to the Island in the most advisable position for interrupting any vessels arriving off it; and you will detach the other ships as you shall deem best for preventing the aforesaid force from reaching any of the other Islands.738"That on the said 12th of December, the Island of Terceira, part of the dominions of
738"That prior to the 12th of December, 1828, her Majesty the Queen, Donna Maria 2nd, had been recognized by his Majesty, and the other great Powers of Europe, to be the legitimate Queen of Portugal; and that at the period above-named the said Queen was residing in this country, and had been received by his Majesty with the accustomed honours of her royal rank.The Marquis of Clanricarde
774773 said, the noble Lord opposite had complained that the present was now the third or fourth time when this subject had been brought under the consideration of their Lordships; and he seemed to urge that as a reason for not acceding to the Motion. Now, he could not help feeling, when he considered the circumstances in which their Lordships were placed with respect to this question, that those circumstances justified his noble friend in again expressing his opinion. At the close of the last Session of Parliament, his Majesty was advised to lay before their Lordships certain papers explanatory of the course which his Majesty had been counselled to pursue. At that time his noble friend, the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, challenged inquiry on this subject; but it was then totally impossible for any noble Lord to stir one step in the business, because Parliament rose, he believed, the day after those papers were produced. In the next Session, the question of Portugal formed part of the matter contained in his Majesty's Speech, and when the Address was moved, the subject of Terceira was noticed as a matter of great importance in itself, but of still greater importance when viewed in reference to our communications with Portugal. But what said the noble Duke on that occasion? He made it a matter of complaint that, the subject was brought forward on the first night of the Session, when he had not had time to refresh his memory. It was, therefore, unreasonable for him to object to the Question now, when it was introduced as a substantive Motion. The time which had elapsed might perhaps have lessened the interest attached to the subject; but certainly it did appear to him that nothing could be more reasonable or proper, when his Majesty's advisers had laid before Parliament their views on a certain question, than for any noble Lord to bring that question under
774773Lord Goderich
752 said, that he had been listening very attentively to the speech of the noble Secretary, in order to obtain some information on this subject, but that he found that speech to be no answer at all to the points that had been brought forward by the noble Lord near him. The noble secretary's speech had been an account of what had been done, but of nothing else. The reception of the Portuguese troops at Plymouth he admitted to have been a breach of neutrality, but was that any justification of the other breach of neutrality which had been committed by following them upon the high seas, and preventing them from landing at Terceira? Certainly not; unless it was meant to be argued that as the Government had broken the neutrality on the one side, it was a proof of their impartiality to break it on the other. No answer, he contended, had been given to the arguments of the noble Lord near him on that part of the case. The noble Secretary could not mean to say that the misdeeds of the Marquis Itabayana, who had committed the fraud, were to be visited on the heads of these unfortunate refugees. That fraud might have justified remonstrance to the Court of Brazil, but it ought not to have regulated the conduct of Government with regard to the refugees. Again, as to the false clearances: that transaction might have been very wrong, and might have justified our stopping the troops in our own ports, but it did not give us a right to pursue them across the Atlantic, and then fire into their ships. Then the noble Secretary attempted to justify the conduct of Government, by alluding to the transaction of 1826. Those Portuguese, however, were deserters; they left Portugal and retired to Spain, without arms; but they returned with arms, and with the actual support of Spain. But supposing the two cases to have been similar and parallel, would Spain, upon
752The Earl of Radnor
753 said, that he had at least the consolation, should his motion be negatived, of knowing that it was so on grounds which could not be generally satisfactory. The noble Earl had alluded to the case of neutrality only, and that in a very incomplete manner. As for the possession of Terceira, it was clear that the government of that island was in the hands of Donna Maria, and was exercised in her name. The comparison drawn by the noble Earl between this case and Spain did not hold good; for it was a fair ground of war against Spain, that she harboured Portuguese deserters and sent them back armed to annoy Portugal. On that occasion we interfered to preserve the peace of Europe. We
753The Marquis of Clanricarde
766765764763dignus vindice nodus.762761760The Duke of Wellington.759758de facto757756755754 should not have ventured to trouble the House with any observations on the subject, but after the manner in which it had been treated, he could not allow it to go to a vote without expressing his surprise at the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers. When this unfortunate and painful subject first came before the House, the Government appeared to be panting and longing for an opportunity to give an explanation of the whole of their conduct; yet now, neither in the speech of the noble Earl, nor in the defence put before the House, on which the Government rested its case, was one word said directly or indirectly on that branch of the subject which formed the principal ground of the Motion of his noble friend below him. It had been the custom when the affairs of Portugal were introduced in that House, to elude the question, by professing an unbounded love of peace, a strict and austere adherence to the terms of our conventions with other countries, and a most unbounded respect for the opinion of the people in them. In had been found, for instance, in the present case, that in the unanimous opinion of the people of Portugal (by what magic the noble Earl had taken the exact poll of the people of Portugal it was hard to say), the Government of Don Miguel was preferred to the charter accorded by Don Pedro. The noble Duke at the head of his Majesty's Government sometimes shewed that he understood the tactics of debate as well as he did those of the field. He had spoken on these questions several times, and although he had said little to elucidate the subject referred to, he had obtained one great advantage, he had contrived to impress the public with the belief that those who found fault with his Majesty's Government were in fact doing nothing more than urging an unnecessary interference in the affairs of another country, and prompting this Government to impose by its will upon another people a Government which they disliked. He would notice that part of the subject more particularly before he sat down. But with respect to those professions to which he had before alluded, he could not help saying, that when they were made he could not think
766765764763dignus vindice nodus.762761760The Duke of Wellington.759758de facto757756755754Lord Holland
775casus fœderis.—Well, that was sufficient for his argument. It did appear to him that the whole proceeding was hasty, inconsiderate, and irregular. And, in his opinion, it arose from the manner in which that correspondence was conducted. They were told to go away from this country as individuals, but they were never told how or in what manner they were to go. They went away in British ships, and were exposed to consequences by the British Government to which they ought not to have been liable. But their Lordships were told, that the course taken with respect to the Portuguese who had escaped to Spain, was the same which Ministers had adopted in this case. It was true the troops were sent back by Spain, but they were armed first and, he believed that they were armed by the Captains-general in Salamanca and Ciudad Rodrigo. Thus, then, a 775casus fœderisLord Goderich
778777776 expressed his anxious desire to say a few words on this subject. He was perfectly ready, after all the attacks which had been made, to declare his responsibility for the advice which he had given with respect to the matter in question. He would state to their Lordships, as shortly as possible, the grounds on which he had given his advice,—which, as it appeared to him, was perfectly proper. So far from the conduct of Ministers being blameable, he thought that if they had taken a different course they would have been subject to the just censure of the country. One noble. Lord, who spoke early on the Question, wished to confine it to what the noble Baron called the last catastrophe; but the noble Baron thought it was better to take a wider range, and he availed himself of that privilege to a most extensive degree, for very little of his speech was restricted to that point. The noble Lord having confined himself so little to this portion of the subject,
778777776The Lord Chancellor
, in explanation, said, that his motive for not alluding more at length to the point adverted to by the noble and learned Lord, did not arise from any feeling of its weakness or want of importance. The noble Duke had charged him with having omitted the point of notice. He did not intend to have done so. But he would now trespass on their Lordships' indulgence to say a few words in answer to that point. He would suppose that the noble Duke, instead of prosecuting Mr. Alexander, had given him notice, that if he should write another inflammatory article he would give him a drubbing, and that upon Alexander writing such an article he had given him a drubbing: would the noble Duke have been justified in thus taking the law into his own hands? It appeared to him that the two cases were not very dissimilarLord Holland
 said, that in the Terceira case the parties had professed to submit to the wishes of our Government, and therefore had no right to complain of the consequences resulting from their breach of faith.The Lord Chancellor
780 denied that the Marquis of Palmella had given any distinct pledge that the troops should go to the Brazils, and not to Terceira. On the contrary, it appeared that the Marquis had acted throughout with perfect candour and good faith. Their Lordships were told that this country was entitled to maintain its principle of neutrality, and to exact attention to it on the part of those who had found an asylum here. That was the case while they were in this country; but that principle gave us no right to make a hostile attack on these unfortunate people for the purpose of driving them from their own shores. When they had got to those shores they were entirely out of our jurisdiction. But it was said, that they had sent arms before them, which were ready to be put into their hands when they arrived in the island. Was it clear that such was the fact? Certainly he found no satisfactory evidence of it. The noble Duke feared to keep them here as a body. That was rather an extraordinary fear on the part of the noble Duke; but it appeared that he feared as much to allow them to go hence as a body. The noble Duke wanted them to disperse; but they preferred, naturally, to leave the country; for, if they should be dispersed, they must starve, as the subscriptions would then, probably, cease, and their subsistence depended on their remaining as a body. The real question had been always blinked by the Ministers; which was not whether they had a right to expel the refugees from our own ports, but whether they had a right to pursue them from one quarter of the globe to another. While hero, Ministers might have a right to control their proceedings and motions; but what had that to do with the act of driving them, by a hostile attack, from their own shores? That was the point in which the Ministers had violated the law of nations. Well, but, said the Ministers, perhaps we did act contrary to the law of nations, but then we had a right to do so, since they violated their promise. He did not think that they had violated their promise; but if they had, that gave the Ministers no right to violate the law of nations. Suppose they had violated their promise, were they the only one of the two parties who had done so? Was there not a much more grievous violation of promise on the part of Miguel? He was one of those who
780The Earl of Carnarvon
751750749748747746745 said, that although their Lordships had been three or four times already called upon to discuss this question, yet he felt perfectly well satisfied that the noble Lord had thought proper to bring it once more under their consideration; for he was well convinced that the more the subject was examined and understood, the greater would be the certainty of their Lordships giving their sanction to the course which his Majesty's Ministers had adopted. The noble Lord had proposed a series of resolutions which, as he had heard them that night for the first time, it could not be supposed that he was prepared to discuss minutely. Some truth there doubtless was in the narrative contained in the noble Lord's resolutions; but it was dashed with circumstances well calculated to give any one who read it a very erroneous notion of the transaction. The subject was indeed highly important; but their Lordships should view it candidly and dispassionately: it was even a subject, he would say, on which their Lordships should rather distrust first impressions; and moreover, the character of the trans-
751750749748747746745The Earl of Aberdeen
772de facto771770769768767 observed, however anxious he might have been that noble Lords should have an opportunity of discussing the affair of Terceira, that had certainly been afforded them, both in this and the last Session of Parliament. That was he believed the fourth time it had been under discussion, and he conceived that every objection which had been introduced had been plainly and satisfactorily answered; but he must say, that a more extraordinary mode of bringing forward the discussion than that which had been resorted to on this occasion had never occurred in any instance whatsoever. The noble Lords who supported this Motion, after admitting that this country had a right to remain neutral,—after admitting that Great Britain had a fair and just right to remain neutral, or to adopt either of the two courses which were open to her with respect to these contending parties,— those noble Lords now stood forward and certainly did pronounce the most severe and the most uncalled-for invectives against his Majesty's Ministers, for pursuing that line of conduct to which they had thought proper to adhere. He would assert, that
772de facto771770769768767The Duke of Wellington
.— I said, it would have been just as well if I had not used it. I did not say unfortunate.The Duke of Wellington
 explained, that he was apprehensive of the consequences, in case the troops had refused to obey the order to disperse; and therefore had felt a disinclination to issue such an order: with respect to what had fallen from the noble Baron as to the notice, he must say, that he had twice given them notice that they must not go to Terceira.The Duke of Wellington
831 rose to move for several Returns connected with the expenses of the Commissioners of the London and Holyhead, and London and Edinburgh Roads, to the production of which, he said, he understood there was no objection. The reason why he made the Motion was, that a committee had been, as he understood, appointed in another place to inquire into the state of those roads; and he wished that their Lordships should be in possession of all the information necessary to understand
831The Marquis of Salisbury
 stated, that he wished to have an account of the whole expenditure for which the public supplied the funds, as well as that which came from other sources. What he most disliked was, a species of local taxation by Parliamentary Commissioners, which he considered to be very improper.The Marquis of Salisbury
834sds833 rose to move for certain returns respecting the averages taken of the price of Corn. Those returns he considered of great importance in ascertaining how far the present mode of taking the averages was correct. Their Lordships would recollect, that when the Corn-laws were in progress through the House, it was said that a great been was given to the English farmer by including Irish wheat in the averages; but he had reason to believe that a very small portion of the wheat from that country was actually so included. The first return for which he should move was an account of the quantity of Corn imported into Liverpool from Ireland, and the quantity imported coastwise, from July, 1828, to January, 1830. The second Return would
834sds833The Earl of Malmesbury
 supported the Motion. It was right, if the quantum of protection to be given to the British Corn-grower were to be measured by the averages, that the mode of taking those averages should be as correct as possible, and they could not be so if the returns did not include the whole of the home-grown Corn brought into the market.The Earl of Limerick
835 said, he had to present to the House Petitions from the owners and occupiers of land in the several hundreds in the county of Norfolk, complaining of great distress, caused by the excessive burthen of Taxation, from part of which they prayed to be relieved, more particularly from the burthen of the duty on malt. The petitioners complained that they were now in a worse situation than they were ten years ago, and they stated, that the capital of the farmer had been very materially reduced, which proved that his trade had been a losing one. In adverting to the distress of the country, it was not his intention to advocate the interest of one class more than another because he happened to belong to it. He had been an enemy to the Corn-laws from the beginning, because he felt that they failed in giving that protection to the home-grower which was intended, and at the same time they had not produced any advantage to the consumer. Bread was still too dear, though the farmer did not derive any benefit from the high price. What the farmer required was, a reduction of rent, and that had taken place to a considerable extent, and a still greater reduction must take place. The petitioners, he admitted, did not pray for any such reduction, but there was no doubt that it would be a relief to them. Indeed, too high rents could not be long continued, for in the result they would operate to the injury of the party receiving, as well as to the party paying them. The distress of the country, however, did not arise in any great degree
835Lord Suffield
832 said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion, but merely to give notice, that if their Lordships should think the evidence sufficiently strong to warrant the second reading of the Bill, it was his intention to move an amendment in the committee—that the franchise be transferred, not to Bassetlaw, but to one of the great
832Lord Wharncliffe
842841840 said, he felt some reluctance to intrude upon their Lord-
842841840The Earl of Winchilsea
ll expressed his partial concurrence in the statements of the noble Earl behind him, who had drawn with such strong colouring a picture of the distress experienced in Kent. Many of the noble Earl's remarks would apply to the county (Norfolk) with which he was himself connected. He regretted as much as the noble Earl the diminution that had taken place in the class of yeomanry: persons of from 500llLord Suffield
843Laughter observed, that some apology might be expected from him for not taking a part in the getting up of the petition, particularly as he was connected with the county from which it had emanated, and was known to be favourable to these expressions of public opinion. But he had not interfered because he was convinced that the distress complained of could not be relieved in consequence of any proposition of the meeting, and that the suggestions of the noble Lord (supposing him to be favourable to them) were likely enough to be counteracted. In 1822, when according to his opinion the distress was greater than at present, a county meeting was held in Kent, at which Mr. Cobbett attended and proposed an equitable adjustment. On that occasion, acting, as he thought, the part of an honest man, he had opposed the proposition, but he stood almost alone in his opposition, and it was carried by acclamation. At another county meeting in Kent, the noble Earl proposed a loyal Address, when up started an auctioneer, from Rochester, knocked down the proposition, floored the noble Earl, and his second, and bottle-holder (a noble Lord not now in his place), and upset the entire proceeding. [843LaughterThe Earl of Darnley
 doubted if the Commissioners levied any money except that which they were authorised to do by Act of Parliament. In order to support the expense, an increased toll was levied at some places, and there was an additional postage on letters conveyed from London to Dublin. From these sources the money at first advanced by the commissioners had since been replaced.Viscount Goderich
 wished to know, if his noble friend included in his Motion the whole of the receipts of the Commissioners, for if he did not, the account would be incomplete and incorrect; the whole expenses of the roads not being met by sums from the public purse:—a considerable part of the expenditure was made good by tolls which they were authorised to levy.Viscount Goderich
 presented a Petition, signed by 3,500 persons residing in Huddersfield and its vicinity. They complained of great distress, and prayed for some relief. A part of their distress they attributed to the decline in the demand for Fancy Stuffs, which was so great as almost to destroy that trade; but the great cause of the difficulties they and other classes suffered, they attributed to the pressure of taxation, greatly aggravated by certain measures that had been adopted by Government, more particularly that of the change from a paper to a metallic currency. This change the petitioners thought should have been accompanied by a reduction of part of the national debt, or by some measure which would bring the property of the fundholder as much under the effects of taxation as the other property of the country. Upon these points he differed from the petitioners. He did not see what measure could be introduced which would have the effect of making the property of the fundholder liable in the way proposed. Nor did he admit the justice of any reduction of the national debt in any way by which faith would be broken with the public creditor. In that part of the prayer of the petitioners which sought for a large reduction of taxation he fully concurred, and he hoped to hear of still greater reductions than those which had been already announced by Government. He had great confidence in the disposition of Ministers to go as far as they could in reducing the burthens of the country.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that he was sorry to differ from the petitioners, but he thought that the assimilation of the practice of the law in England and Wales would be a great benefit to the latter country. He was sorry to have to differ on this point from the noble and learned Lord who had just sat down; but so far from thinking that the Equity Courts to which the noble and learned Lord alluded were a benefit to Wales, he thought them an encumbrance and a hindrance to justice.Earl Cawdor
 said, in explanation, that he had spoken of the stale of things in his own neighbourhood, and represented it as improving.The Marquis Camden
 continued.—He bad spoken as an independent Peer; and in that capacity he had thought it right to express the opinions he entertained. Again, if the county of Kent were as much distressed as it was said to be, or even more so, that could not prove that the country generally was distressed. Besides, it should be recollected that there was a peculiar culture in Kent—that of hops. The low price of that produce, and the duty upon it, might have made it very difficult for the growers to remunerate themselves. His noble friend had alluded to a tenant of his (Marquis Camden's) who had lost 200/. by his farm. He did not know who that tenant was, but he thought it not unlikely that a tenant who wished his rent to be reduced, or the day of payment deferred, would hit upon such an argument.The Marquis Camden
839 said, that as his noble friend had thought proper to make a great many observations upon what he had felt it his duty to say in that House, he would tell their Lordships what he had meant to say on the occasion referred to. He had meant 40 say, that as far as his experience and means of observation would allow him to form an opinion on the subject, the distress complained of was not so great or so general as it had been represented to be by some persons in that and in the other House of Parliament. As to the County of Kent, he had said that the distress was not so great as it had been represented to be. He spoke from his own experience, and their Lordships would do him the justice to recollect that what he had said was founded upon a comparison which he had made between this and former years, the result of which comparison was, that the
839The Marquis Camden
, referring to what fell from him on a former occasion in respect to the debt of the country, said, that what he stated had been incorrectly given. He was represented to have said, in allusion to the alteration in the currency, that debts contracted in a depreciated currency ought to be paid in a depreciated currency, or at the same rate they were contracted. He was in the recollection of several noble Lords, and he could appeal to them in stating that he had said no such thing,— quite the reverse. He should consider such a proposition as extremely unjust.The Earl of Eldon
830 presented a Petition from the Gentry, Clergy, and Freeholders of the county of Pembroke, against any alteration in the system of Welsh Judicature;—also a similar Petition from the Mayor, Burgesses, and In-habitants of the town of never ford west. The noble and learned Lord said, he wished to take that opportunity of expressing his regret that he had been unable to attend in his place when the noble and learned Lord on the woolsack introduced the subject of the proposed changes in the law to their Lordships' notice; which was not from undervaluing the importance of the subject, or from any want of respect to the noble and learned Lord, but literally because he was unable. He would, therefore, without going into the subject to which their attention had been called, take that opportunity to state, that he would give his most serious consideration to the measures about to be introduced, and if he should be found opposing any part of them, it would not be from any spirit of contention, but from conscientious grounds of objection. Had he been in his place on Monday, he should most readily have corroborated what fell from the noble and learned Lord as to the unfounded assertions respecting the expense of the commissioners of inquiry into the Court of Chancery. The gentlemen who acted in that commission never received one farthing for their trouble. They not only gave their services gratuitously to the public, but their attention to the business of that commission was given at the sacrifice of considerable professional emolument. With respect to the inquiry proposed into the state of the Ecclesiastical-law, he admitted that the necessity of it was made out by a recent case, to which he would not then more particularly allude. As to the revision of the Criminal-law, Ins professional habits for a very long period of his life were such as to render him not the most competent judge on that subject, but he very willingly gave credit to those who had undertaken the task for a disposition and ability to improve the law and its administration. On the subject of the proposed
830The Earl of Eldon
838lllllsl837836 said, that he had been requested to present a Petition, agreed to at a public meeting held in the county of Kent, and that he acceded to that request with the more pleasure, inasmuch as he heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition. He should not have troubled their Lordships with any observations upon the respectability of this
838lllllsl837836Earl Stanhope
, in explanation, said, he trusted his noble friend did not think he had meant to say that his noble friend's conduct had proceeded from any but the most conscientious motives. As to distressing the Government, he thought it the proper course to excite noise, and he pleaded guilty to the desire to excite noise, both in that House and out of it, when he found himself beaten by numbers, and not by arguments.Earl Stanhope
845 said, he understood it was not the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to offer any opposition to the production of the Returns which he wished to obtain, the motion for which he had given notice of on a former day. This being the case, he should not enter into the subject which the Returns involved upon the present occasion, reserving to himself the right, at a future opportunity, when the accounts were before the House, to make his observations on the question of Free Trade. The noble Earl moved for accounts of the declared value of Foreign Manufactured Silk imported into Great Britain in 1826, and the three subsequent years; of the English Manufactured Silks exported in 1823, and each subsequent year; of the value of articles of Leather imported in each year subsequent to 1823; of the quantity of Gloves imported within the same time; of our Exports and Imports generally to and from France in 1828 and every subsequent year; also for an account of the expenses incurred in the mainte-
845Earl Stanhope
844 said, with respect to the idea of the majority of the meeting being favourable to the counter-petition, he thought the majority was for the original proposition, but admitted that if so it was by no means a large majority. However, it was all matter of opinion, and the High Sheriff had decided differently. The noble Earl (Darnley) had alluded to former meetings at which he (Earl Stanhope) was not present, and stated that a proposition for an equitable adjustment was carried at one of them. He was not a friend to what was called equitable adjustment,; because he thought it could not be effected in an equitable manner. However, to that we must come at last, or adopt an issue of paper money. He did not wish to allow! bankers to make such issues without requiring from them proper security, and would rather have country bankers the distributors than the creators of paper money. He should not object, for instance, to an issue of Government paper. Noble
844Earl Stanhope
 said, he had no! objection to the Returns being furnished, and should himself move for the production of further returns, explanatory of the subject, upon a future day.The Duke of Wellington
. — Certainly not.The Duke of Wellington
 presented a Petition from a beneficed clergyman of the Church of England, Isaac Nicholson, the Vicar of Great Paxton, Huntingdonshire, praying for the removal of all Civil Disabilities affecting the Jews on account of their religion. Such a Petition, said the noble Lord, was rather singular, coming from such a quarter; but though he did not concur with the Petitioner in his prayer, yet the rev. gentleman was so respectable that he could not but lay it before their Lordships. The Petitioner stated, that the Holy Scriptures were full of prophecies concerning the Jews, and he thought that the time was approaching when many of those prophecies were about to be fulfilled, and he thought the Legislature was bound to do every thing to promote their conversion to Christianity.The Earl of Limerick
, from Manufacturers of Flour in and near London, praying for better protection against the importation of Foreign Flour. They stated that flour might now be introduced at a much lower rate of duty than foreign corn, and they prayed an alteration of the law in that respect. The noble Earl adverted to a petition presented from Millers on a former occasion, and recently repeated in another place, praying to be allowed to grind foreign wheat in bond for exportation, and hoped that the Government would not permit such an experiment again to be tried, as it would open the door to great frauds.The Earl of Malmesbury
962, in presenting three Petitions from certain inhabitants of Norfolk, praying for a repeal of the Malt Tax, said, he should take that opportunity to explain what he had already stated when presenting a petition of a similar nature on Thursday. The petitioners, on both occasions, complained of the distress which at present affected the agriculturists; they alluded to the burthens under which they suffered, but more particularly they complained of the Malt-tax, He had likewise
962Lord Suffield
963 said, that the present was not a favourable opportunity for entering into a discussion on the subject of the Petition. This much, however, he might
963Lord Ellenborough
 said, the latter were considered as natives, and were eligible to all the offices in the Company's service to which the natives were eligible. The parties to the petition were illegitimate, being of half-caste, and were not eligible to those appointments.Lord Ellenborough
d.s.s.965s.s.s.d.s.964 said, he had a Petition to present from Birmingham, which was entitled to the greatest attention and consideration on account of the number and respectability of the names which were annexed to it. It was signed by 25,000 persons. It embraced a variety of topics, such as Parliamentary Reform, and a revision of Taxation, but it derived its chief importance, in his view, because the distress of the petitioners was the foundation of their prayer,—a point which ought by no means to be overlooked, as they had already heard so much of the abatement of that distress, in support of which assertion Birmingham itself had been adduced as an example. The tri-
d.s.s.965s.s.s.d.s.964The Earl of Radnor
 said, since the strict order was that they should not make any allusion to what took place in the other House, or to any former debates in that House, which in his opinion was a nice regulation—he wished to see it strictly observed. The noble Duke had complained of his noble friend as being irregular, when, if there were one question more than another which might excuse an allusion to such occurrence, it would be a petition upon a question of facts affecting the condition of the people. His noble friend did not state any particular date or place, and had he spoken of the conversation generally, as having occurred elsewhere, he might have escaped all imputation of disorder. In short, he would contend, that nothing could be more parliamentary than was his noble friend.Lord Holland
 expressed his concurrence with the sentiments of the noble Duke as to the rule of Parliament he had alluded to, but differed from the noble Duke as to the possibility of comparing prices.The Earl of Radnor
"That the impediments which have been interposed by law to the admission of foreign Corn have impaired, and, in some degree, destroyed the advantages which nature and industry had bestowed upon us; they have checked the demand for our produce; they have greatly repressed the rate of all profits, because the rate of profits in every country must be regulated by the return of that portion of the national capital which is employed in the cultivation of the least fertile soils; they have prevented our labourers from receiving their just reward, by confining them nearly to the home market, when a cheaper supply could be procured elsewhere; they have rendered almost unavailing the advantages which must otherwise have infallibly attended the improvements of machinery, and the superior facilities of manufacture; they have checked the prosperity of the country, impoverished all the productive classes, and by the most perverse policy compelled our natural customers to become our competitors, our rivals, and almost our enemies.""That great and flourishing manufactures, by the superior reward of labour which they are able to afford, tend most materially to improve the condition of all the labouring classes, by the constant demand for the increasing population of their own, and of the agricultural districts; they provide also the best market for every description of agricultural produce; they furnish the most ample and the most profitable employment for the new accumulations of capital; they afford the means of promoting to an indefinite extent, the general prosperity and wealth of the country; or if there be any limit, that limit is only determined by the returns of raw produce which the great market of the world is enabled to supply."That since the enactment of the Corn-laws in 1815, the whole of that long period (a period also of uninterrupted peace) has been marked by an unusually low rate of profit in all trades, by an inadequate reward of labour, by the frequent recurrence of distress in the manufacturing districts, and by the heavy pressure of Poor-rates in the agricultural counties—a state of things the most opposite to the increasing wealth and comfort which so eminently distinguished the ten prosperous years succeeding the peace of 1782, when foreign wheat was, without any interruption, admitted at a nominal duty of sixpence the quarter.974"That Great Britain, by the abundant supply of coals, by the advantages of machinery, by the accumulation of capital, and by superior skill and industry, possesses the rare and inestimable advantage of being able to make the labour of her people more efficient and more valuable than that of any other nation in the world. More efficient, because, when that labour is applied in directing the powers of steam and of machinery, it produces more goods than the same quantity of labour can produce elsewhere; and it is more valuable, because that produce will exchange for the produce of more labour in any other country, and in this manner it highly contributes to the increase of public wealth and individual enjoyment. That it is therefore the true policy of England to encourage the full developement of her most productive industry, to avail herself of all her great natural and acquired advantages. That it belongs only to the most perverse ignorance, and to the most culpable misrule, wilfully to preclude the country from the fullest enjoyment of these benefits, by prohibiting, under heavy duties (unless when at a famine price), the admis-
974"An absolute prohibition subjects the consumer to the most pernicious and the most odious of all monopolies."A duty levied upon Corn for the purpose of raising a revenue, is the worst of all possible taxes—being, in effect, not less destructive than a curse of sterility inflicted on the soil."A regulation of the trade in Corn, for the pretended benefit of the public, is a most impolitic interference of Government in the management of the most important of all trades, which Government is wholly incompetent to direct, and which it never can attempt to regulate without the greatest detriment to the public interests."That all regulations, duties, and prohibitions, which prevent the admission of corn, and increase the price of that necessary of life, are impolitic and unjust.973972But though he strove, moved not one inch the more.""He strove to move, while waved the wizard o'er,971970969d.s.s.,d.,s.d.;s.s.,d.,s.968s.s.s.s.967 rose to move a series of Resolutions on the subject of the Corn-laws. He wished to place upon their Lordships' Journals a statement of the views which he took upon that most important subject; and whether at the present time they agreed with him or not, he felt confident, that at no distant time they would feel the justice of those principles which he advocated, and be compelled to adopt them ultimately, with a view to the welfare of the people. In approaching this question, it was at least satisfactory that it had been cleared of one of the difficulties which stood in its way. It was now universally admitted that one great cause of the existing distress was the too great pressure at present weighing down the productive industry of the country. Mr. Huskisson—he might mention that
"That the impediments which have been interposed by law to the admission of foreign Corn have impaired, and, in some degree, destroyed the advantages which nature and industry had bestowed upon us; they have checked the demand for our produce; they have greatly repressed the rate of all profits, because the rate of profits in every country must be regulated by the return of that portion of the national capital which is employed in the cultivation of the least fertile soils; they have prevented our labourers from receiving their just reward, by confining them nearly to the home market, when a cheaper supply could be procured elsewhere; they have rendered almost unavailing the advantages which must otherwise have infallibly attended the improvements of machinery, and the superior facilities of manufacture; they have checked the prosperity of the country, impoverished all the productive classes, and by the most perverse policy compelled our natural customers to become our competitors, our rivals, and almost our enemies.""That great and flourishing manufactures, by the superior reward of labour which they are able to afford, tend most materially to improve the condition of all the labouring classes, by the constant demand for the increasing population of their own, and of the agricultural districts; they provide also the best market for every description of agricultural produce; they furnish the most ample and the most profitable employment for the new accumulations of capital; they afford the means of promoting to an indefinite extent, the general prosperity and wealth of the country; or if there be any limit, that limit is only determined by the returns of raw produce which the great market of the world is enabled to supply."That since the enactment of the Corn-laws in 1815, the whole of that long period (a period also of uninterrupted peace) has been marked by an unusually low rate of profit in all trades, by an inadequate reward of labour, by the frequent recurrence of distress in the manufacturing districts, and by the heavy pressure of Poor-rates in the agricultural counties—a state of things the most opposite to the increasing wealth and comfort which so eminently distinguished the ten prosperous years succeeding the peace of 1782, when foreign wheat was, without any interruption, admitted at a nominal duty of sixpence the quarter.974"That Great Britain, by the abundant supply of coals, by the advantages of machinery, by the accumulation of capital, and by superior skill and industry, possesses the rare and inestimable advantage of being able to make the labour of her people more efficient and more valuable than that of any other nation in the world. More efficient, because, when that labour is applied in directing the powers of steam and of machinery, it produces more goods than the same quantity of labour can produce elsewhere; and it is more valuable, because that produce will exchange for the produce of more labour in any other country, and in this manner it highly contributes to the increase of public wealth and individual enjoyment. That it is therefore the true policy of England to encourage the full developement of her most productive industry, to avail herself of all her great natural and acquired advantages. That it belongs only to the most perverse ignorance, and to the most culpable misrule, wilfully to preclude the country from the fullest enjoyment of these benefits, by prohibiting, under heavy duties (unless when at a famine price), the admis-
974"An absolute prohibition subjects the consumer to the most pernicious and the most odious of all monopolies."A duty levied upon Corn for the purpose of raising a revenue, is the worst of all possible taxes—being, in effect, not less destructive than a curse of sterility inflicted on the soil."A regulation of the trade in Corn, for the pretended benefit of the public, is a most impolitic interference of Government in the management of the most important of all trades, which Government is wholly incompetent to direct, and which it never can attempt to regulate without the greatest detriment to the public interests."That all regulations, duties, and prohibitions, which prevent the admission of corn, and increase the price of that necessary of life, are impolitic and unjust.973972But though he strove, moved not one inch the more.""He strove to move, while waved the wizard o'er,971970969d.s.s.,d.,s.d.;s.s.,d.,s.968s.s.s.s.967Lord King
978s.s.s.s.977spanacea976s.975 would not have risen had he not been personally called upon by the noble Lord. He denied that
978s.s.s.s.977spanacea976s.975The Earl of Malmesbury
 did not agree with the noble Baron as to the waste of labour in the cultivation of poor lands; for he had seen such lands maintain thousands of persons in Ireland, who, but for them, could not have found the means of subsistence. Other countries cultivated their lands to the fullest extent. In China he had heard that the highest tops of the mountains were cultivated, and why should not our waste lands be cultivated?Lord Mountcashel
s.s.980s.979 entirely dissented from the deductions of the noble Baron, not only because they were founded upon speculative and untried doctrines, but because he thought that in the peculiar circumstances in which the country was placed, it was necessary for our prosperity that a protection for the domestic agriculture of the kingdom should be maintained, and also that the principle of the existing laws (deciding the amount of duty payable on the importation of foreign Corn according to the price of the commodity in the home market, by an ascending and descending scale) was the most beneficial to the community at large that it was possible to adopt, and the least injurious to any part of it. Without entering into any detail of argument on the subject, the principle of his objection to any attempt at the establishment of a free trade in Corn was, first, his conviction that in a long series of years the price to the home consumer would not be less than it was under the existing system if the Corn-laws were abolished, or but very little less; and even if the price were reduced, wages would fall along with it, so that the poor
s.s.980s.979The Earl of Rosebery
981 observed, that if a general repeal of all protections affecting manufactures, as well as those by which agriculture was guarded, could be accomplished, he should have no objection to proceed on that broad and general principle. But feeling that such a state of things, however desirable, could not be brought about, and hoping that, year after year, they would continue to
981The Earl of Carnarvon
, in reply, admitted the importance of the home market, but his argument was, that if the foreigner were admitted to send his Corn to this country, the manufacturer would, in consequence, have two customers instead of one. With respect to what had been said relative to a duty being imposed by foreign powers on Corn about to be exported here, such a practice never could, in his opinion, be carried into effect. It was very true that Buonaparte had levied such a duty; but it should be observed, that he was at that time master of all the potentates of Europe, and they were obliged to obey his mandate; but he was sure that now no country would be so foolish as to levy an impost which would put an end to its own trade. The noble lord concluded by defending his motives for bringing forward the Motion at the present time. He was sure it was much better to do so now than to introduce it when a great rise in the price of Corn, which he was sure would take place, had created irritation and ill-will in the public mind.Lord King
ss said, it was very clear that the foreign powers would impose such a duty as had been alluded to. The king of Prussia had imposed such a tax in 1801, and on its inconvenience being represented by his subjects, the answer was, that it should remain for a time, but that if the price of wheat in England fell to between 50ssThe Earl of Rosslyn
 inquired if there was any difference between the children of half-castes and the half-castes themselves?The Earl of Carlisle
 presented a Petition from the Christian inhabitants of Calcutta, who were born of European fathers and native mothers, complaining of various disqualifications to which they had been subject since the first settlement of the East India Company. They stated that they were excluded from privileges to which both natives and Europeans were indiscriminately admitted. They were incapacitated from serving in the civil, military, or marine service of the Company, as the preamble of every appointment was required to set forth that the person proposed was not the son of a native and European. The petitioners were likewise disqualified from holding the King's commission in India, nor could they hold offices of trust and emolument in any department whatever.The Earl of Carlisle
966 said, it was very unfortunate that noble Lords departed from that rule of the House which was opposed to any direct allusion to what was said in former debates, or to what passed in the other House. Had the noble Earl attended to that rule he would not have fallen into the errors he had committed. It was impossible for his right hon. friend to know the condition of the people except from the public returns, and he conceived that in the statement he made he was perfectly justified. The noble Lord, in asserting that the people of Birmingham suffered more now than in 1817, and in appealing to the number receiving assistance from the poor-rates, for the purpose of sustaining that assertion, referred to the prices of the two periods, and attributed the existing distress to the difference between them. But the noble Lord could scarcely compare the prices of the two periods with any accuracy or justice, when
966The Duke of Wellington
 professed to have a perfect recollection of what the noble Lord had said upon the presentation of the former petition. To the best of his belief, he had expressed himself to the same purport, if not in the same words, then, as he had done upon the present occasion. He remembered his having referred to the ineffectual administration of the Poor-laws in Norfolk, and specified the 9th Geo. 3rd as the source to which they were to look for a remedy.The Duke of Wellington
985984s.983d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.s.s.982s.;s.,s.s.,s. said, he felt it necessary to say one or two words on this Motion, more particularly after what the noble Earl below him had said, with reference to what had fallen from him (the Duke of Wellington) in the course of the last Session. He agreed entirely with the noble Baron in wishing to have plenty of cheap Corn; because he thought it would be highly beneficial to the country, and would tend to improve the condition of every class of society. But he was anxious to see that effect produced in a manner different from that pointed out by the noble Baron. He wished to see plenty of provisions created in a way that would confer benefit and advantage on the native agriculturist; he wished to see that plenty derived from the improvement of Ireland, and from the increase of her productions. If cheap provisions were produced by these means, great national good must be the result. And he would say farther, that a plentiful and steady supply of provisions could not be produced by any other means. In reply to the observations of the noble Baron, he would call on their Lordships to look at the Returns which had been laid before that and the other House of Parliament. Let them advert to the long period, from 1791 to 1815, during the whole of which time the ports were open, at a duty of 24985984s.983d.,s.d.,s.d.,s.d.s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.d.;s.s.s.982s.;s.,s.s.,s.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he had at first much the same view of the reciprocity Treaties as the noble Earl opposite. But he found from the Return that British shipping had gone on regularly increasing, and it was with great satisfaction that he felt himself bound to declare that he now thought he had been mistaken in his first impressions. He was not aware that the subject was to be discussed, or he should have come prepared with documents to justify his change of opinion.Lord Ellenborough
l doubted whether the Motion of the noble Marquis would answer the purpose which he himself had in view. It appeared to him that it would be requisite not only to know what was the amount of produce of the American mines, but also to know whither it went. Within eighteen years no less than 45,000,000lLord Ellenborough
 said, that there was a constant flux and reflux to and from India, so that it was scarcely possible to trace where the produce went. There could be no doubt that the increase of civilization, population, and taste for elegant luxuries, had occasioned a much greater expenditure of the precious metals in latter times than formerly. The chief fact however was to ascertain the produce.The Marquis of Lansdown
1051lll had no objection to the Address, but he wished to make an observation on the subject of the great expense occasioned to the public by the salaries of these consuls. He had paid some attention to the subject, and he found that the expense amounted to 97,0001051lllThe Earl of Malmesbury
10501049 rose, pursuant to his notice of yesterday, to move an Address to his Majesty, praying that he would instruct the Consuls to the different States of South-America to make inquiries into the state of the South American Gold and Silver Mines, and to transmit to this country all the information on the subject which they might be able to collect. His wish was to procure, as far as possible, accurate information concerning the supply of the precious metals. He did not anticipate any objection to his Motion, and it would not, therefore, be necessary for him to trouble their Lordships with any lengthened re-
10501049The Marquis of Lansdown
 expressed his satisfaction at the explanation given by his noble friend.The Earl of Malmesbury
 saw no reason why the whole of these appointments should not vest in the Foreign Office.Lord Holland
 said, that he did not wish the consuls to be wholly dependent on fees. He would give them a salary, more particularly as they were liable to be called on to perform services like that to which the present Motion related.The Earl of Malmesbury
 asked if the consuls sent to the north of Africa were appointed by the Colonial or the Foreign Office.Lord Holland
 said, that in 1825 great objection was made to the system of fees in the other House, and by merchants out of doors, and the consequence was the abolition of the fee system. Great caution ought, he considered, to be observed in the appointment of vice-consuls, and they certainly should not be merchants—this was more peculiarly necessary in a country wherein our relations were rather commercial than diplomatic.Viscount Goderich
1048 did not think it necessary to enter upon the discussion of the subject at length, on the present occasion, as his noble friend had intimated that the whole matter would be, at a future period, brought under the consideration of Parliament. But he had some time ago moved for certain Returns, from which it appeared that since this reciprocity system was adopted, the British shipping had gone on in a constant progressive course of increase, as compared with the shipping of all the rest of the world, except Norway, which owing to particular circumstances in its situation had increased its shipping faster than England. In particular it had been predicted that British shipping would be sacrificed to Prussian shipping; but the fact was, that the British shipping almost to the exclusion of Prussian shipping, monopolized the trade between the two countries. The Returns he had previously moved for, ended with the year 1828; but he had little doubt that the increase had gone on in the course of the last year. Some spoke of these Treaties as if they were merely speculative schemes resorted to by Ministers without any kind of necessity. But that was far from being the case; for, as we had levied very high duties on the shipping of foreign states, they retaliated by imposing very heavy duties on ours, and in that way we were sure to have the worst of it. The adoption of this reciprocal system was therefore a matter of necessity. If it had not been adopted, there could scarcely be a doubt but that the situation of this country would have been much worse than it actually was. By its means the British shipping had been enabled to compete with the shipping of all the world. At present the trade carried on by British shipping with the United
1048Viscount Goderich
1047 admitted that this was not a Commercial Treaty of the description which would be satisfactory to the noble Earl with his view of the subject; but he was very far from admitting that this country would derive no advantage from it. With respect to the distresses of the country, and the distress of the shipowners particularly, these distresses did not arise in any degree from the alteration made in the Navigation Laws. Even if the increase of British shipping had been suspended of late years, still that would be no sure criterion that the alteration bad done harm, although a plausible argument might have been drawn from that circum-
1047The Earl of Aberdeen
 laid on the Table a Treaty of Commerce and Navigation which his Majesty had concluded with the Emperor of Austria and signed at London, December 21st.The Earl of Aberdeen
 was unwilling then to enter into any further particulars, the more especially as the matter arose incidentally.The Earl of Aberdeen
 saw no objection to the Address proposed by the noble Marquis. The truth was, that the Consuls had already been acting on instructions of a somewhat similar kind; but perhaps it might be of advantage that their attention should be directed more specifically to the points mentioned by the noble Marquis.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that he had been paying some, attention to the subject, and he believed that he should, at no distant period, be able to submit a proposal to the House about this matter. But it would never answer to make the whole of the allowances to the consuls consist of fees; for if at any long period of a year the commerce of their stations should be suspended, the consuls might be reduced to great distress if they had nothing to look to but the fees. But in 1825, the old system had been very much objected to, and the fees had been abolished. But whether the change had been advantageous might be doubted; and perhaps the best plan might be to make the allowances payable partly in salary and partly in fees, guarding as much as possible against abuses. He hoped to bring forward a plan to diminish the expense. As to these South American States, almost the whole of our relations with them was of a commercial nature; but in every case where a minister was sent out, the office of consul-general was made to cease.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, the consuls to Egypt were appointed by the Foreign Office—those for the Barbary States by the Colonial Office.The Earl of Aberdeen
 objected to this and the other similar Treaties, which were founded on what was called the Reciprocity System. There was, in fact, no reciprocity, for all the advantage was on one side; that is, all was in favour of the foreign power, and against this country. Treaties for the encouragement of mutual commerce were highly advantageous; but these Treaties were for the encouragement only of the trade of other nations, and the ruin, of our own trade. When petitions were pouring in from all parts and from all the different interests of the country, complaining of distress, it was surely a bad time to sacrifice the interests of the ship-owners and others of our own country, in order to promote the interests of the foreign shipowner. It would be impossible for the British ship-owner to compete with the foreign, particularly with the ship-owners of the United States, on this system of reciprocity. It ought always to be kept in view that foreign vessels in general could be built and equipped at one half the expense that attended the building and equipping of British vessels. He profited by that opportunity of entering his protest against these ruinous measures.Earl Stanhope
 said, that the Returns to which noble Lords alluded, included all steam-boats employed as passage vessels; and he was yet to learn that either the wealth or the naval power of the country was increased by the visits of the Londoners to Margate. His question was, whether we were carrying on a profitable or an unprofitable trade; and he contended that our trade was unprofitable. To say that it was not, because it was not altogether given up, was like saying that there was no agricultural distress because the farmers had not abandoned their farms. It was a plain matter of arithmetic that the English ship-owners could not compete with foreigners who built and navigated their vessels at half the expense of the English ship-owner. He wished to have an inquiry into this subject, for if the information which reached him were correct, he believed that our ship-owners were keeping their ships a float at a great loss.Earl Stanhope
1116 presented a Petition from the Hundred of Diss, in the county of Norfolk, praying for an alteration in the mode of the payment of the Clergy by Tithes. The whole of the Petition, his Lordship stated, was well worthy their Lordships' attention; but the petitioners stated in general that the present mode of paying the Clergy by Tithes was injurious to religion, and contrary to sound policy. It was injurious to religion on account of the irritation frequently occasioned by it between the incumbent and the parishioners; and it was contrary to sound policy, because it had a tendency to prevent improvement and the extension of agriculture, and so far to lessen the means of employment, for the labourer. It was a cause of injustice also; for a farmer might be disposed to lay out some capital in the improvement of land, in the hope that it
1116Lord Suffield
1119 said, he had been intrusted with a Petition respecting the Administration of Justice in this country, which for several reasons was entitled to an attentive and serious consideration. It was most numerously signed, and by persons of the highest respectability, resident in the metropolis. Amongst the signatures would be found that of the most eminent lawyer at the Irish bar, (Mr. O'Connell) and the peti-
1119Lord King
l.l,l.;l.1121l.,1120 said, he should solicit the attention of the House, and of his Majesty's Ministers more particularly, to a Petition which he had the honour to present from the inhabitants of the parish of St. Catherine, Dublin, signed by 111 Merchants, Manufacturers, and Traders of that City, praying for a remission of the duty on Coals imported into Ireland. That such a petition should have been intrusted to him was matter of regret, as he could not, without pain to himself, and without risk of his health, address their Lordships at any length upon the subject, whereas other noble Lords would have been more efficient in its advocacy, although none could be move sincere in zeal. It ought to be recollected that Ireland had not the advantage of those inexhaustible collieries which this country enjoyed, as the ablest engineers had given it as their opinion that in Ireland, though not destitute of Coals, the Coal-mines were scarce, and that the fuel
l.l,l.;l.1121l.,1120The Marquis of Anglesey
, presented a Petition from certain landowners in Wexford, against the present Tithe-system, as it existed in Ireland. The Petitioners complained of the hardship of being compelled to pay the ministers of a Church with which they had no connection, and from which they derived no benefit. The Tithe-system in Ireland was of no use, as the petitioners thought, except to enable the Clergy of the Established Church to wallow in wealth, luxury, and extravagance, inconsistent with their Christian profession. The system, as it operated in Ireland, had also a most mischievous effect on the morals of the people, for it was the source of many assassinations and other crimes.The Marquis of Anglesey
1122 presented a Petition from Shepton Mallet, complaining of Distress, and praying for Relief. The right rev. Prelate supported the prayer of the Petition, and vouched for the correctness of its statements. By every principle of humanity and justice that House was bound, he said, to institute an inquiry into the causes of the distress, for the legislature should treat the people as a father would treat his children, Sound policy also demanded it, for by doing so, the legislature would earn the gratitude of the people. It was impossible for any language of his to do justice to the heroic fortitude with which they had submitted to their distress;
1122The Bishop of Bath and Wells
 presented a Petition from Worcester, signed by 2,800 persons, complaining of Distress, and praying for a revision of the Currency, and Parliamentary Reform.Earl Beauchamp
1124 denied that distress existed so generally in the country as the noble Earl (Stanhope) seemed to
1124The Marquis of Bute
 brought in a Bill for the better regulation of the Poor Laws in Scotland. The noble Lord said, as some misunderstanding-existed with respect to the object of this Bill, he wished to state, that there was nothing whatever in it subversive of the fundamental principle of the Scotch system of Poor-laws. He had brought in a bill on the subject last Session, but had since remodelled the whole; and introduced a variety of improvements.Lord Napier
, in reply, said no doubt land was a better mode of investment in Scotland; but it was not a little singular that, under those circumstances, so large a number of landed proprietors in that country should be anxious to sell their estates. He repeated there was great distress in the country, and in one county (Worcester) there existed great irritation and exasperation amongst the lower orders against the higher, and if some remedy was not found to remove the distress, that exasperation would increase to an extent to be dreaded.Earl Stanhope
s.1123l.l. bore testimony to the general existence of the distress complained of, and read extracts from a letter, which, he said, was written by one of the cleverest men he was acquainted with, to justify his opinion. One-third of the unentailed estates in Scotland, he was informed, might be found in the market; and Scotland, instead of being prosperous, as had been stated, was in great distress. The people about Glasgow, he was informed, were living chiefly on provisions imported from Ireland; and on a line of road near Berwick, there were several estates unoccupied. The distress at Leeds had been denied in the teeth of a petition signed by 50,000 persons; and the writer of the letter informed him, that the statements of that petition were too true. The increase of Tolls, which had been quoted in another place as a sign of prosperity, had no foundation; in fact, during the last four years the Tolls in the neighbourhood of Birmingham had decreased from 3,990s.1123l.l.Earl Stanhope
 explained: He thanked the noble Baron (Wynford) for the lecture he had been pleased to read him on the subject of Parliamentary Reform, and for the statement of the perfect acquaintance he had with his (Lord Holland's) views and wishes. He was not aware, however, that he had ever promulgated those views and wishes to the noble Baron, either publicly or privately; but sure he was, that rendering this House the bar to all improvement of this kind, was the true mode of producing that convulsive and violent reform which every man must dread. He expressed his obligation also to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, for finishing his (Lord Holland's) quotation from Bacon, by a passage much more to his purpose than that which he had himself cited.Lord Holland
1204 considered this as a great public question, and trusted that their Lordships would not, without evidence, take a step which made an alteration in the Constitution. He agreed that general measures, such as those which had been instanced by his noble friends, might be passed without evidence, because they were to be determined by the dictates of public policy. So, there would be no necessity for evidence in support of an alteration in the representation of the Scotch counties; but, if it were proposed that the representation of one county—say the county of Lanark—should be altered, there would be a necessity for evidence, because that would be a particular, not a general measure. If, in such a case, their Lordships refused to hear evidence, he thought their Lordships would commit an outrage on the Constitution, and be guilty of a dereliction of their duty, The question before them was, whe-
1204The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, his noble friend opposite had recommended that to which he was most strongly opposed. That recommendation was, that they should adopt the proceedings on evidence with which the Members of the House of Commons themselves had not been satisfied—that was, the Report of the Select Committee. If they were not satisfied with that Report, surely their Lordships ought not to be less exact.The Marquis of Salisbury
(Signed) VASSALL HOLLAND."12083. "Because, if the House of Lords were to establish the practice of proceeding as usual in private bills, or in bills of Pains and Penalties, as indispensable in bills of regulation and reform in matters of election, great delays would ensue and various impediments be thrown in the way of such wholesome reforms as the lapse of time and the exigencies of the country are
12081207ex vi termini12062. "Because the recourse to such a preliminary act of power for the purpose of procuring evidence, implies (and the preamble directly asserts), before any petition has been presented to this House against the East Retford Bill, that an examination of witnesses at the Bar is absolutely necessary; and thereby sanctions a notion, in my opinion, erroneous, mischievous, and unconstitutional—namely, that the Bill that has lately passed the House of Commons, and all other measures of a like nature, are bills of Pains and Penalties, partaking of a judicial character, and requiring all that special and cautious regard to legal forms which distinguishes this House in the discharge of its judicial functions, and which it widely and mercifully extends to such legislative acts as
1207ex vi termini12061. "Because the provisions of the Bill pre-suppose an insufficiency of evidence, and the consequent necessity of resorting to extraordinary means to procure it, in the matter of a Bill lately brought up from the Commons, and entitled, "An Act to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Election of Burgesses to serve in Parliament for the Borough of East Retford," whereas the decision of the other House of Parliament, founded first upon the report of a tribunal, appointed by Act of Parliament to try elections, and armed with all necessary powers for that purpose; and, secondly, upon the result of their own inquiries, raises a reasonable presumption, at least, that grounds sufficient to enable us to come to a sound determination on the legislative measure before the House may be obtained without a special suspension of the ordinary rules of evidence, and an anomalous purchase of truth by an extension of impunity to offenders.
12083. "Because, if the House of Lords were to establish the practice of proceeding as usual in private bills, or in bills of Pains and Penalties, as indispensable in bills of regulation and reform in matters of election, great delays would ensue and various impediments be thrown in the way of such wholesome reforms as the lapse of time and the exigencies of the country are
12081207ex vi termini12062. "Because the recourse to such a preliminary act of power for the purpose of procuring evidence, implies (and the preamble directly asserts), before any petition has been presented to this House against the East Retford Bill, that an examination of witnesses at the Bar is absolutely necessary; and thereby sanctions a notion, in my opinion, erroneous, mischievous, and unconstitutional—namely, that the Bill that has lately passed the House of Commons, and all other measures of a like nature, are bills of Pains and Penalties, partaking of a judicial character, and requiring all that special and cautious regard to legal forms which distinguishes this House in the discharge of its judicial functions, and which it widely and mercifully extends to such legislative acts as
1207ex vi termini12061. "Because the provisions of the Bill pre-suppose an insufficiency of evidence, and the consequent necessity of resorting to extraordinary means to procure it, in the matter of a Bill lately brought up from the Commons, and entitled, "An Act to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Election of Burgesses to serve in Parliament for the Borough of East Retford," whereas the decision of the other House of Parliament, founded first upon the report of a tribunal, appointed by Act of Parliament to try elections, and armed with all necessary powers for that purpose; and, secondly, upon the result of their own inquiries, raises a reasonable presumption, at least, that grounds sufficient to enable us to come to a sound determination on the legislative measure before the House may be obtained without a special suspension of the ordinary rules of evidence, and an anomalous purchase of truth by an extension of impunity to offenders. afterwards entered the following Protest against the Witness Indemnity Bill, in the matter of East-Retford.
(Signed) VASSALL HOLLAND."12083. "Because, if the House of Lords were to establish the practice of proceeding as usual in private bills, or in bills of Pains and Penalties, as indispensable in bills of regulation and reform in matters of election, great delays would ensue and various impediments be thrown in the way of such wholesome reforms as the lapse of time and the exigencies of the country are
12081207ex vi termini12062. "Because the recourse to such a preliminary act of power for the purpose of procuring evidence, implies (and the preamble directly asserts), before any petition has been presented to this House against the East Retford Bill, that an examination of witnesses at the Bar is absolutely necessary; and thereby sanctions a notion, in my opinion, erroneous, mischievous, and unconstitutional—namely, that the Bill that has lately passed the House of Commons, and all other measures of a like nature, are bills of Pains and Penalties, partaking of a judicial character, and requiring all that special and cautious regard to legal forms which distinguishes this House in the discharge of its judicial functions, and which it widely and mercifully extends to such legislative acts as
1207ex vi termini12061. "Because the provisions of the Bill pre-suppose an insufficiency of evidence, and the consequent necessity of resorting to extraordinary means to procure it, in the matter of a Bill lately brought up from the Commons, and entitled, "An Act to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Election of Burgesses to serve in Parliament for the Borough of East Retford," whereas the decision of the other House of Parliament, founded first upon the report of a tribunal, appointed by Act of Parliament to try elections, and armed with all necessary powers for that purpose; and, secondly, upon the result of their own inquiries, raises a reasonable presumption, at least, that grounds sufficient to enable us to come to a sound determination on the legislative measure before the House may be obtained without a special suspension of the ordinary rules of evidence, and an anomalous purchase of truth by an extension of impunity to offenders.
12083. "Because, if the House of Lords were to establish the practice of proceeding as usual in private bills, or in bills of Pains and Penalties, as indispensable in bills of regulation and reform in matters of election, great delays would ensue and various impediments be thrown in the way of such wholesome reforms as the lapse of time and the exigencies of the country are
12081207ex vi termini12062. "Because the recourse to such a preliminary act of power for the purpose of procuring evidence, implies (and the preamble directly asserts), before any petition has been presented to this House against the East Retford Bill, that an examination of witnesses at the Bar is absolutely necessary; and thereby sanctions a notion, in my opinion, erroneous, mischievous, and unconstitutional—namely, that the Bill that has lately passed the House of Commons, and all other measures of a like nature, are bills of Pains and Penalties, partaking of a judicial character, and requiring all that special and cautious regard to legal forms which distinguishes this House in the discharge of its judicial functions, and which it widely and mercifully extends to such legislative acts as
1207ex vi termini12061. "Because the provisions of the Bill pre-suppose an insufficiency of evidence, and the consequent necessity of resorting to extraordinary means to procure it, in the matter of a Bill lately brought up from the Commons, and entitled, "An Act to prevent Bribery and Corruption in the Election of Burgesses to serve in Parliament for the Borough of East Retford," whereas the decision of the other House of Parliament, founded first upon the report of a tribunal, appointed by Act of Parliament to try elections, and armed with all necessary powers for that purpose; and, secondly, upon the result of their own inquiries, raises a reasonable presumption, at least, that grounds sufficient to enable us to come to a sound determination on the legislative measure before the House may be obtained without a special suspension of the ordinary rules of evidence, and an anomalous purchase of truth by an extension of impunity to offenders.Lord Holland
 could not exactly fix on a time when he should be able to produce the papers; but he had hopes that he should be able to do so soon after the holidays. The noble Earl stated in reply to a further question from Lord Holland, that as to the cause of the delay, there were some points still to be settled; but the three Powers were acting in complete concert.The Earl of Aberdeen
 replied, that he had no intention to propose a measure of the kind at present, and the reason was, that the Amendments suggested by the Real Property Commissioners were so much connected with each other, that it was hazardous to legislate on one point until they had a general view of the whole, and this had been suggested by the Commissioners themselves in their first Report. But the noble Marquis might be assured that he would pay every attention to the subject.The Lord Chancellor
 replied, that the two Governments were in communication on the subject, and that Ministers had not observed any indisposition on the part of the French Government to afford the most satisfactory explanations.The Earl of Aberdeen
11921191 rose to move the third reading of the East Retford Witnesses' Indemnity Bill. It had been so much the practice to pass bills of this kind under similar circumstances, that, he thought it would pass as a matter of course, and therefore he had not given long notice before he brought in this Bill. He certainly had no intention to smuggle it through the House, for he had not anticipated opposition, especially from the noble Lords opposite. Now he understood that a noble Lord (Holland) on the opposite side meant to oppose it on account both of its principle and its provisions. He had, therefore, thought proper to inquire into the practice of their Lordships' House, and he found that it had been the practice to pass bills of that kind, under similar circumstances, for nearly a century. It had happened in three instances lately, and it would be impossible to get the witnesses to attend to give evidence in a case of this kind, unless they were indemnified from the conse-
11921191The Marquis of Salisbury
11971196onus probandi119511941193 did not mean to accuse the noble Marquis of attempting to smuggle the Bill through the House, but he regretted that the attention of the House had not been more prominently directed to it in an earlier stage, although he freely acquitted the noble Marquis of an attempt to take the House by surprise. The noble Marquis had said that his opposition had come rather late; and he admitted that he ought to have urged his objections when the Bill was brought in, or on the second reading, and if he had done so, it would have been so much more for the advantage of his argument; but, unfortunately, his attention had not been called to it. The noble Marquis had supposed many grounds for his opposition to the Bill, and had endeavoured to upset them, apparently much to his own satisfaction. The noble Marquis had started many hares, but he had not started the real game, which he would find too strong to deal with. His objection was not so much to the principle of the Bill, nor to its provisions, as to the time, the manner, and the circumstances. The bill with reference to which this Bill was brought in, was called a bill to prevent Bribery and Corruption at the Election of Members of Parliament for the Borough of East Retford, and he maintained that the examination of witnesses at their Lordships' Bar would be not only useless,
11971196onus probandi119511941193Lord Holland
1198 wished to state shortly his objections to the Amendment of his noble Friend. He would not enter into the general topics connected with Reform, which had just been handled; but he must be allowed to say, that when the noble Lord referred to that well-known maxim of Lord Bacon, it was much to be regretted that he did not add the following words:—"It were good, therefore, that men in their innovations should follow the example of time itself, which indeed innovateth greatly, but quietly, and by degrees scarce to be perceived." The great point in the case was, whether bills of this kind should be considered as bills of Pains and Penalties. The case of Cricklade was so considered both by Lord Mansfield and Lord Thurlow, and was argued in that House upon principles altogether different from those which the noble Lord took up. The ground on which he would contend for the examination of witnesses was this—there was vested in the electors of East Retford a certain right which they had abused, and he had yet to learn how their delinquency could be shown otherwise than by an examination of witnesses. The House of Commons had appointed a Select Committee from out of their own body, but was that House satisfied with the Report of their own body? So far from being so, they examined witnesses themselves; and upon what grounds, then, could their Lordships avoid doing that which the Commons thought necessary? In the case of Penryn the House of Commons had a Select Committee, and examined witnesses themselves; yet their Lordships had examined witnesses at their own Bar, and arrived at a different conclusion from the House of Commons—the witnesses on the latter occasion having been examined on oath. The cases of Barnstaple, Grampound, Penryn, and Cricklade—every one of them supported the views which he took in opposition to the opinions of his noble friend, and established them beyond all controversy. The necessity for examining evidence being once admitted, their Lordships' ought, according to all principles of law, to pass such a bill as
1198The Lord Chancellor
prima facie12001199 said, that if an exanimation of witnesses were necessary, they must of course have a bill like that now proposed. Upon that point he apprebended there was no difference of opinion; but the question was, whether their Lordships ought to examine witnesses at all. To that he for one was extremely unwilling to become pledged. The preamble of the Bill stated that it was necessary to examine witnesses at the Bar of that House; and his objection was, that this expression seemed to impose the same course upon their Lordships upon all similar occasions. It would form a precedent which their Lordships would be obliged to follow in cases where there might be no necessity for examining witnesses. The question had already been before the regu-
prima facie12001199Lord Wharncliffe
1203A fortioridss1202a laugh1201 thought their Lordships would act inconsistently with justice if they neglected to call evidence in a case like the present. It had been said by one noble Lord, "Wait, and see if any of the witnesses refuse to answer the questions put to them, before you pass a bill like this." He differed, however, from that noble Lord, and in this respect there was a shade of difference, too, between him and his noble and learned friend on the Woolsack. He would say that their Lordships ought not to wait to see if the witnesses would take this objection, for it was the duty of their Lordships to protect witnesses unasked, and to take care that neither the counsel nor any of their own body should press a man to give answers which would criminate himself. Again, it had been asked, "how do we know that any witnesses will be in this situation?" There would be very little difficulty in answering that question, for the evidence taken before the other House was upon their Lordships' Table; and their Lordships had only to look at that evidence in order to be assured that many witnesses would be in that situation. The question then was this—would their Lordships refuse to extend to these witnesses that protection which every court of justice in the country gave to every witness that came before them? The noble Baron (Lord Holland) opposite, in his very ingenious speech, had described the elective franchise as a trust. The more general, and, allow him to say, the more correct, description was "a trust with an interest." That it could not be sold was certain; but where property gave the right of voting, that property was saleable, and a man was in all cases allowed to hold out this right as a circumstance which enhanced the value of the property, If the right were
1203A fortioridss1202a laugh1201Lord Wynford
1266 presented a Petition from Taunton, Somersetshire, praying that the trade to China might be thrown open, and the East India Company's Monopoly abolished. The petition, his Lordship said, was signed by a great number of most respectable persons, and they thought that it was high time for them and others, who wished the opening the trade, to bestir themselves, as they began to suspect that there was a leaning on the part of Ministers towards the renewal of the Charter. It was like the case of an expiration of a beneficial lease, where the stewards suffered themselves to be cajoled by the lessees. The petitioners thought it was high time to press on Government the necessity of attending
1266Lord King
 said, in presenting a Petition from a Mr. Williams, a Magistrate of Lee, in Kent, complaining of the consumption of ardent Spirits, and praying for its discouragement, and stating that the abolition of the Beer-duty would have no effect in that way;—that he did not agree with the worthy magistrate on this subject, but he had no objection to present the petition. In his opinion, throwing open the trade in Beer would tend very much to diminish the consumption of ardent Spirits.Viscount Goderich
 took the opportunity of saying, that he begged leave to postpone the second reading of the Bill till the 3rd of May. The noble marquis said, he did so at the request of a noble Duke (Newcastle, as we understood), who had a deep interest in the measure, and who feared his inability to attend on the day for which the second reading was now fixed, from indisposition.The Marquis of Salisbury
 did not wish to directly oppose the postponement suggested by the noble Marquis, but to put it to him whether the discussion of a great public question, in which great public interests were involved, should be deferred, solely to suit the personal convenience of any individual, however interested. There were a great number of witnesses to be examined, and if the measure were postponed, it might not be completed during the Session.Lord Holland
1337 thought, with
1337The Earl of Malmesbury
 was anxious to take advantage of that occasion to protest, not against the Bill, but against the practice which made it necessary. Their Lordships were aware that at present, service in the Navy was made a punishment for smuggling, and the Bill compelled the smuggler serving in the Navy to allot a moiety of his pay for the support of his family. To that he had no objection, in fact it was necessary; but he objected to punishing smugglers in that manner. The principle was highly objectionable, and could only have the effect of throwing a stigma on a highly honourable service. What brother seaman but must feel humiliated when he sees a profession to which he had devoted his best energies, and in which were embarked his best hopes and aspirations, thus dishonoured by being made a punishment for offences against the laws of this country? He had resisted the application of the same objectionable principle to the punishment of poachers, who, it was proposed, should be forced into the Army. He hoped the noble Lord would remedy this defect, and thereby prevent a stigma being thrown on a highly honourable profession.The Earl of Malmesbury
, in answer to the noble Earl, begged leave to state that this punishment of the crime of smuggling was only inflicted on those smugglers who had been at sea previous to the commission of their offence. To no other class of smugglers did it apply. He should be happy to support any measure which would put an end to smuggling. or provide a better method of disposing of the smuggler, but that question was not then before their Lordships. The present Bill was made necessary by the law as it stood and would be an improvement.Lord Melville
 said, he objected to the system altogether. A man was caught smuggling, he was asked whether he was a sailor or not, and if he answered yes, he was sent to a King's ship. This was degrading the King's service, and therefore he objected to it.The Earl of Malmesbury
 said, he had a document which he was anxious to lay before their Lordships relative to Bankruptcy Commissions, but he was obliged to defer doing so till a day or two after the holidays. He would take advantage, however, of that occasion to repeat what he had before stated and what had also been stated by the Lord Chancellor, that the Chancery Commissioners had discharged their duties as commissioners gratuitously, and many of them, too, at a personal sacrifice of professional emolument. He was the more anxious to repeat this fact, as it had been confidently asserted, in a recent pamphlet, that the Chancery Commission was a most costly one, though its members, as he again repeated, had received no pecuniary reward for their labours whatever.The Earl of Eldon
 said, that nothing which had fallen from him, or any of his colleagues, could warrant such an inference.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that the West-Indian interests were severely depressed; but the noble Lord was in error when he supposed that the West-Indian proprietors had called for this new duty on corn Spirits, or indeed would benefit much from it.Lord Holland
 was glad to have this statement from the noble Lord, because, as these new duties were not called for by the owners of rum, they ought not to be imposed upon corn Spirits. In his opinion, the measure would not augment the Revenue.The Earl of Malmesbury
ipso facto presented a Petition from the Rev. James Patrick Kenney, who had once been a Roman Catholic Priest, but had since become a Protestant. The petitioner stated, that he knew a number of priests of his former communion, who would abjure the errors of their church, provided they were allowed some means of subsistence. A Catholic priest became, upon conversion, ipso factoThe Earl of Mountcashel
 reprobated in the strongest terms any pecuniary encouragement for converts, or the buying men over from one religion to another: sure he was, that the class of converts hitherto obtained in this manner were a good riddance for the one church, and a disgrace to the other."The Earl of Limerick
l. said, that the allowance, by the Act of Anne, was only 30l.The Earl of Mountcashel
 apprehended this petition could not be received—it prayed for a grant of money. Noble Lords might, if they pleased, give advowsons to converts of this kind, where they had such patronage, but he would not consent to give them public money.Lord Holland
 said, that the petition was quite irregular. It was an application for public money, and made in an informal manner.The Earl of Rosslyn
 withdrew the petition. He gave notice, that on Tuesday week he would present the Cork Petition for a Reform of the Established Church, and on the same day submit a motion corresponding with the views of the petitioners.The Earl of Mountcashel
 wished to know from the noble Earl whether he meant to confine his motion to the Church of Ireland?The Marquis of Londonderry
 replied, that he did not: he meant it to include England as well as Ireland.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, that the debate ought to precede the examination of witnesses.Lord Durham
 said, the usual course was to hear the witnesses before the second reading.The Marquis of Salisbury
 concurred in this opinion, and counsel and witnesses were called in.The Earl of Rosslyn
l32 objected to the course of proceeding. No impropriety, as far as he could see by the examination which the case had already undergone in another place, could be charged against the present electors, but that they had suffered themselves to be treated; but that was the fault of the candidates. There were, he believed, but few Members of the House of Commons who had stood a contested election against whom the charge of treating might not be brought. He had been
l32Lord Durham
 maintained that it should be left to the discretion of counsel themselves, to decide on the course of proceeding which they might consider it most judicious to adopt with regard to the examination of witnesses.The Marquis of Salisbury
 said, that the merits of the case consisted in what took place at the last election, and therefore the corruption on that occasion ought to be proved first.The Earl of Malmesbury
 thought, that they ought not to interfere with counsel. The most natural mode, he conceived, would be to commence with the rise of corruption in the borough, before they examined into any occurrences which had happened at subsequent elections, but that was a point for counsel to consider, who had the cause to manage, and not for their Lordships to control.Lord Holland
 to object to a third counsel being employed, it being contrary to the general practice and rules of the House to allow more than two counsel to be engaged on a side on any private bill.The Lord Chancellor
 supported the same view as the Lord Chancellor.The Marquis of Salisbury
 supported the propriety of allowing the third counsel to be heard. This was a Bill of Pains and Penalties; it had assumed a great degree of political importance, in consequence of having occasioned a division of the Cabinet; it was supported by several of the Cabinet Ministers, and therefore he thought it was the duty of their Lordships to relax the rule, even if it were a rule which they generally followed. He did not know that the rule had never been deviated from; and in a case like that, it would be proper in their Lordships to give the petitioners a more than usual latitude. If he were to consent to Mr. Adam's pursuing that cross-examination, which Mr. Stevenson was conducting so ably as to call the attention of their Lordships to him, he should recognise the principle, that only two counsel could be employed. He would therefore move that their Lordships should then adjourn the further consideration of the question, in order to give time to examine whether or not it were a general rule of the House that only two counsel should be heard.Lord Durham
 said, that he had no objection to the greatest latitude being given; all that he was afraid of was, the longitude of the case.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that in the cases of Penryn, Grampound and Barn-staple, two counsel only had appeared at the Bar of that House. He would move that only two counsel on behalf of the petitioners against the Bill should be heard.The Lord Chancellor
124l.l.123l. said, that he wished to take that opportunity of saying a few words with respect to some observations which had been made last night in another place concerning the Revenue of his own and of other Sees, which were so inaccurate that he thought he owed it to himself and the church of which he was a member, to lose no time in giving them a public refutation. At the same time he was sure that the hon. Gentleman who had made the statement had not willingly been guilty of misrepresentation; but he had spoken from imperfect data, which made it more necessary to refute the assertion. He would in a few words correct the statements which he had seen in the only source they possessed of such information of what was said to have been asserted in another place. The assertion was this:—"The Bishop of Rochester's income was not more than that of many of the parochial clergy, whilst other Sees possessed an immense amount of income. Some of the episcopal Revenues would amount in a short time to 100,000124l.l.123l.The Bishop of London
l.l.ad valorems.,s.221s.d.,s.d.l.220d.s.s.d.d.d.d.s. s.219s.s.d.s.s.218d.s.d.s.s.s. to present a Petition from a most respectable body of individuals connected with the trade of the country,—he meant the Distillers of the United Kingdom,—to which he entreated, generally, the attention of the House, but more particularly that of the noble Viscount opposite (Lord Goderich), who had been Chancellor of the Exchequer in the year 1825. These petitioners would not have trespassed upon the Legislature were it not for the late circumstance which had come to their knowledge, that it was intended to abrogate a solemn agreement which had been made with them, and to levy an additional duty of 1l.l.ad valorems.,s.221s.d.,s.d.l.220d.s.s.d.d.d.d.s. s.219s.s.d.s.s.218d.s.d.s.s.s. The Earl of Malmesbury rose
225d.224l.,l.,d.,s.s.s.s.d.s.223d.s.s.s.222 said, that he was ready to give every information in his power, not only to the petitioners, who were most interested, but with reference to the general principles of policy which were involved in the topics which had been touched upon.
225d.224l.,l.,d.,s.s.s.s.d.s.223d.s.s.s.222Lord Goderich
 had no objection to conferring a benefit on the West-India interest, if a fair case were made out to warrant it; but he must protest against it being made in the way of a bonus to that interest at the expense of others. Let any measure of relief to the West-India Body be brought forward in a direct manner, and not as in the present indirect way, and he should give it his best consideration. He thought, however, that that body had no great reason to complain, so far as the consumption of Rum was concerned; for he found that that consumption had increased 55-per-cent since 1825.The Earl of Malmesbury
 observed, that it was contrary to the usage of the House for any noble Lord to interrogate a witness while sitting. He thought that a deviation from the customary practice induced a conventional tone and manner which tended to tender an examination so conducted inaudible in a remote part of the House.Lord Ellenborough
 decided, that it was not irregular to put incidental questions, while sitting, although, in a formal examination, it was usual for noble Lords to stand.The Lord Chancellor
217216215 said, he had a Petition to offer, which purported to have emanated from a Meeting of the County of Northumberland, and to be signed by the High Sheriff. He believed, however, that in point of form it could be only received as the petition of the individual subscriber, the House not sanctioning, in a legal sense, that the act of the High Sheriff was, in this respect, necessarily that of the county at large. It was right he should state that this petition was, as he had understood, adopted unanimously by the meeting; but it had been left at his house, where he found it upon his arrival in town, unaccompanied by any other communication or instruction than that which the petition itself conveyed. He knew it to be a fact, however, that there had been a county meeting in Northumberland; he knew it to be a fact that the High Sheriff was requested to
217216215Earl Grey
226 stated, in reply, that he believed it was competent for him to cross-
226Lord Durham
 said, that he had just returned from France, where he had learned, that a Prince connected with this country was nominated Sovereign of Greece by the Allied Powers. It was some time since the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs had promised to lay papers on their Table relating to the negotiations with Greece. If they were concluded, why leave Englishmen to learn the particulars of this and other parts of their foreign policy from the governments of the Continent? He likewise wished to know whether a reclamation had been made to the Prince alluded to, to forego his position of naturalization in this country? The foreign policy of the noble Secretary was singular: he had raised Don Miguel, while others wished to knock him down. No time ought, in his opinion, to be lost in clearing up the foreign policy of Great Britain. It was twenty-two months since the papers relative to Greece had been promised to their Lordships, and if they were not speedily laid on the Table, he should feel it to be his duty to make a motion on the subject.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, my question is plainly and simply this,—Is Prince Leopold appointed sovereign of Greece, by virtue of a treaty concluded by the Allied Powers? Has he been asked to forego his naturalization in Great Britain, in order to accept this new Sovereignty?The Marquis of Londonderry
 wished to know whether his Majesty's Ministers had received official notification of the establishment of a regency at Terceira by the lawful Queen of Portugal; and, if they had, whether any steps had been taken by them in consequence?The Marquis of Clanricarde
 replied, that the Ministers were aware of the fact of the establishment of such a Regency; hut they had no official relations with the persons composing it.The Earl of Aberdeen
294 did not think it incumbent upon him to answer whatever questions the noble Marquis thought proper to put, yet he had no objection to state, that his Royal Highness Prince Leopold was the personage to whom the Allied Sovereigns had offered the Sovereignty of
294The Earl of Aberdeen
 trusted, that in a very few days it would be in his power to bring down the papers relating to Greece. Though the noble Marquis had alluded to Don Miguel, he had put no question on Portuguese affairs, and he should therefore say nothing upon that subject.The Earl of Aberdeen
.—"To the other part of the noble Marquis's question, relative to the naturalization, I have no hesitation in giving an answer in the negative."The Duke of Wellington
356habeas corpus,355 said, he rose to present to this House, according to the notice which he had already given, the Petition of Mary Anne Wayte, (mother of Elizabeth Hickson,) and George
356habeas corpus,355The Bishop of London
 seconded the Motion.The Bishop of Lichfield
bonâ fide said, he had a Petition to present from New Ross, in the county of Wexford, signed by several magistrates and men of property in that county, praying for inquiry into the means of remedying the existing abuses of the Established Church in Ireland; and also a Petition to the same effect, that originated from a meeting of the friends of the Church of England in the county of Cork, which was signed by upwards of 3,000 bonâ fideThe Earl of Mountcashell
372l.ignis fatuus371370369d.s.l.l.368367l.366365364363Codexa laugh.362Gibson's Codex,Gibson's Codex,361360359 proceeded to say, that pursuant to his express intention, he should then submit to their Lordships a motion founded on the prayer of these petitions, of which he had already given their Lordships notice. In doing so, he begged leave to assure them that he never felt more deeply embarrassed on account, he could sincerely say of a conscious want
372l.ignis fatuus371370369d.s.l.l.368367l.366365364363Codexa laugh.362Gibson's Codex,Gibson's Codex,361360359The Earl of Mountcashell
358357 was of opinion, that the subject then before their Lordships was one which required very serious consideration. No cases, in the view of the law, were more complicated than those which related to clandestine marriages. Conspiracies of this kind were frequent, and when he had the honour of holding the Great Seal, they were often brought before him, and he had to dispose of them in the same manner as his predecessors had done. He was aware that when the banns have been fraudulently performed, a clause in the Marriage Act declared the ceremony to be null and void; but he was also aware, that the subsequent clause which forbade the circumstances of such marriages from being given in evidence, counteracted the means of establishing the nullity, so as to bring it under the previous clause. If the marriage be null and void, he wished their Lordships to see whether the parties could not have their remedy at common-law without coming here; if they had not, then their Lordships must see whether the special circumstances of this case resembled those upon which the legislature had heretofore acted. It would be their duty, when they came to consider the case, not to confine
358357The Earl of Eldon
 expressed a hope that the repeal of the Duty on Leather would prove beneficial to the great body of the people; but he understood that the harness-makers, and other workers in the material, were not of opinion that they would obtain it for a less price than before.The Earl of Malmesbury
 objected to its further progress, as it would prove exceedingly injurious to the town of Hampstead, and to all those who held property in its vicinity. The father of Sir T. Wilson had, by will, limited the power to grant leases to the term of twenty-one years—the son now required leave to let the ground for building on leases of ninety-nine years; and the simple question was, whether Parliament would interpose to alter the avowed and express object of the testator. The grounds on which Sir T. Wilson might be supposed to apply for the interference of the Legislature to set aside the will of his father were, either the occurrence of something which the testator had not anticipated, the omission of something which he should have done for the improvement of the estate, or such an altered state of circumstances as rendered it imperatively necessary to make new arrangements. No such reasons were, however, given by Sir T. Wilson; and it was plain, from the fact of his father allowing him to let one estate for ninety-nine years, and restricting his power in another, that he did not intend that Hampstead Heath should be let in the manner desired by the present tenant for life. The House might think it unreasonable, but the power of the father to make the arrangement was unquestionable; and he contended from this, as well as from the injury it would inflict on the copyholders of Hampstead, that the House ought not to interfere for the purpose of altering the will, which limited Sir T. Wilson's powers to dispose of the property.The Earl of Mansfield
428427426425 said, that in calling the attention of their Lordships to a measure which involved not only the interests of private individuals, but the public concerns of the kingdom, he had to acknowledge that he found himself surrounded with difficulties which could only be removed by the superior wisdom and experience of their Lordships. Those difficulties arose out of certain differences of opinion which might possibly exist among their Lordships, but prevailed to a great extent among the ministers of the Church of Scotland, who would be more particularly intrusted with the administration of the law which he was about to propose for their Lordships' consideration. For his own part he should never have thought of interfering in any manner with this important business, had it not been from the personal observation of the most gross and scandalous mismanagement and neglect on the part of those intrasted with the care of the Registers of the parish in which he resided; but incase their Lordships should be of opinion that one solitary instance of neglect was not a sufficient ground for parliamentary interference, he would refer their Lordships to the Population Abstract, published in 1801, wherein it appeared, that out of 850 parishes in Scotland which made returns under the Population Act, only 99 were in possession of regular Registers, the rest having made only occasional entries therein, or keeping no Register whatever. This great abuse had long ago awakened the attention of the very learned and industrious Deputy Clerk Register in Edinburgh, who not only mentioned it in his reports to the Court of Session, but made such a communication to the general assembly of the Church of Scotland, as caused that reverend body to appoint a committee of their own members to prepare an overture concerning parochial Registers, wherein it is stated:—" That whereas great inconveniency and loss has been experienced in many parts of the country, either from no parochial
428427426425Lord Napier
 admitted the necessity of introducing conformity into the mode of keeping Registers in Scotland, and therefore cordially concurred in the principles of his noble friends Bill. There might, perhaps, be some objection to the machinery, but he should reserve his objections to the next stage of the measure.Viscount Melville
 also stated, that there was a total want of uniformity in the mode of keeping parish Registers in Scotland; he therefore gave his cordial concurrence to the principle of his noble friend's bill. He hoped that the amendments which were to be introduced when the Bill went into a committee would make it satisfactory to all parties.The Earl of Rosebery
424 was understood to say, that it was customary in law not to suppose in any holders of property for life a power to let it, unless that power was given to them by the testator. In this case, by such a power having actually been given to the present Sir T. Wilson over his Woolwich estates, while no such power was conferred over his estate at
424Lord Tenterden
 supported the Bill. He believed that their Lordships had uniformly given their consent to bills of this description, and he saw no good reason for departing from the usual custom on that occasion. Within a few years several hundred bills of this description had received their Lordships' approbation.Lord Arden
445s444443 said, he felt himself called upon to say a few words on this question, and to declare that his views of it were totally different from those taken by the noble Duke on the opposite side, and other noble Lords on this side of the House. Instead of the triumphant statement made by the noble Viscount (Gode-
445s444443The Earl of Stanhope
 said, that that credit which the just confidence of mercantile men enabled them to give each other in this country, which was the surest means of keeping the capital of the country in a state of activity, would admit of a paper currency, and would give us an advantage over the nations of the continent. A paper currency however was perfectly distinct from a Bank Restriction Act, nor did the former necessarily require the latter.Lord Carnarvon
"Our castle's strength would laugh the siege to scorn."441440llll439lllllllllllll438llllll437436llllllllll435llll, in continuation: That made the argument he was stating so much the stronger; but without including that, the reduction of the charge on the National Debt for the next year, as compared with 1816, would not be less than 4,689,000"Our castle's strength would laugh the siege to scorn."441440llll439lllllllllllll438llllll437436llllllllll435llllViscount Goderich
434lll433lllllllllll432431430429 said, after the time of
434lll433lllllllllll432431430429Viscount Goderich
 observed, that the noble Lord near him contended that the country could not go to war without a Bank Restriction so long as the war might last. Now he thought that nothing could be more impolitic than such a measure; for it would be the most effectual means of crippling the resources of the country.Lord Bexley
ll442l said, he considered that the Government and the people were under the greatest obligation to his noble friend for having introduced the subject to their notice, and for the manner in which he had treated it. He would not weaken the effect of the admirable speech of his noble friend, either by commenting upon its matter, or by repeating over again anything that he had said. In general he agreed with all that had fallen from his noble friend, and he congratulated their Lordships in having had laid before them so admirable a statement of the true state of the National Debt, and of the interest paid by the nation on that debt. There was only one part of the statement of his noble friend to which he must confess he could not give his entire concurrence. The part to which he alluded was that in which his noble friend had, with his customary candour, commented upon that topic which usually went by the name of the Equitable Adjustment. His noble friend had admitted that an increase of the Debt was occasioned by the depreciation of the currency, and had stated the amount of that at twenty per cent. It was certainly true that there was a large increase in the price of commodities during the depreciation of the currency; but the allowance that his noble friend had made appeared to him to be a very large allowance indeed. His noble friend had admitted too much he thought in stating the annual increase of the charge on account of the Debt contracted in a depreciated currency at 3,500,000ll442lThe Duke of Wellington
 said, that by a reduction of the rate of interest on Exchequer bills there would also be a saving.The Duke of Wellington
499 presented a Petition from the Noblemen, Gentlemen, and Freeholders of the county of Stirling, against any further increase of the Duty on Homemade Spirits, and praying that the relief which was intended for the colonial interests should be afforded in another way; namely, by a reduction of the duty on Sugar. The petitioners stated, and in that
499The Duke of Montrose
501500 rose to present the Bill, of which he had given notice, to facilitate the Composition of Tithes. His Grace commenced by explaining the causes which had prevented him from bringing the measure at an earlier period of the Session under the consideration of their Lordships. So much nicety and deliberation had been required in framing many of the clauses of the Bill, that he had found it impossible to select an earlier opportunity of laying it before their Lordships; and, seeing the great importance of
501500The Archbishop of Canterbury
 said, that the measure was certainly susceptible of improvement, both with respect to the clergy and the laymen, but it was one which deserved the serious attention of the House; and he returned his thanks to the most Rev. Prelate for having introduced it.The Earl of Eldon
533l.l.d.s. presented a Petition from the proprietors of thirteen Newspapers in Ireland, against the pro-posed increase of the Stamp-duties upon Newspapers in that country. The noble Martinis expressed his entire concurrence in the prayer of the petitioners, and added, that he thought their Petition was a document well worthy of the serious attention and consideration of their Lordships. The facts which they stated fully proved that the proposed measure would be perfectly useless as one of revenue, while one certain effect of it would be, the almost total destruction of the Irish press, which was already in a declining state. The measure in question went to lay on an additional duty of eighty-three per cent upon Newspapers, and forty per cent on advertisements, while it imposed a duty of 3533l.l.d.s.The Marquis of Anglesey
 presented a Petition from the city of Dublin, signed by 2,000 Artisans, Shopkeepers, and other industrious inhabitants of that metropolis, in favour of the introduction of a system of Poor-laws into Ireland. The noble Lord said, that it was absolutely necessary that some compulsory provision for the poor should be established in Ireland, in order to relieve the middle classes, and the description of persons who signed this Petition, and upon whom the support of the poor in that country was at present thrown. It was objected to such a measure, that the poor of Ireland were already supported by charity, which was perhaps true; but that did not exonerate their Lordships from the duty of relieving the middle classes from exclusively bearing that burthen. The gentry of the country, those who drew from it large revenues without ever seeing it, ought to be made to contribute their share. The necessity of such a measure he believed would soon force itself upon their Lordships' attention. For his own part, he had long advocated the introduction into Ireland of a legal provision for the support of the aged and infirm, but from circumstances and statements which had latterly come to his knowledge, he was led to believe that it would be necessary for the Legislature to go much further than that. He did not wish to introduce into Ireland the abuses of the English Poor-laws, but he believed that nothing short of a system founded on the principles of those laws could save that country from much misery.The Earl of Darnley
535534 said, that he could assure their Lordships that they would not hear a speech on the subject of the Poor-laws from him on that occasion. His noble friend had been kind enough to apprise him of his intention to present this Petition, and he thought it his duty to attend. He was not astonished at the statement of his noble friend, that this Petition was signed by 2,000 persons, for he was convinced that his noble friend might readily find in this metropolis, or any other city, more than 2,000 persons of the lower classes, who would be extremely desirous to be supported and maintained at the expense of the superior orders of
535534The Earl of Limerick
 explained, that he had hitherto advocated the introduction into Ireland of a compulsory provision for the aged and infirm only, but late circumstances had induced him to doubt whether it would not be necessary to go much further.The Earl of Darnley
542d.d.541De Laudibus Legum Angliœ,540l.l.539l.l.l.l.d.s.l.538s.l.d.s.d.s.537s.l.d.s.l.536 said, he rose to claim their Lordships' attention to several Resolutions which he had to propose respecting the Poor-laws and their administration. Their Lordships, he was sure, would agree with him in thinking that the subject was of great magnitude and consequence, and they would permit him to occupy a portion of their time, while he explained his views regarding it, and presented to their notice the suggestions which appeared to him calculated to remedy the evils which all persons now admitted to be interwoven with the existing system of those laws. They look their rise in England in 1601, by the Act of the 43rd of Elizabeth, which laid the foundation of that system which had since prevailed in this country. There had been, however, in the reign of Edward 6th, a beneficial principle in action for giving relief to the aged and infirm poor, and also to provide labour for those who were unable to find it; but this last part of the system it was found impossible to carry into execution, and the magistrates and overseers substituted the practice of giving the distressed labourers money and food, instead of finding them work. The Act of Elizabeth was an extension of this system to the whole kingdom. It was from this practice of giving money, thus early begun, that at length the operation of the Poor-laws became intolerably oppressive. At present, from every part of the country there went forth the most grievous complaints. In fact, these laws were now used to measure out the means of subsistence to the labouring classes, whose wages were made adequate to their maintenance by payments from the Poor-rates. In the year ending the 5th of April, 1830, the average assessments on account of these rates was equal in some places to the whole produce
542d.d.541De Laudibus Legum Angliœ,540l.l.539l.l.l.l.d.s.l.538s.l.d.s.d.s.537s.l.d.s.l.536Lord Teynham
 said, that he would act on the suggestion of the noble Duke, and withdraw his Resolutions.Lord Teynham
543 obtained leave to bring in a Bill to Dissolve the Marriage between Elizabeth Hickson and Thomas Buxton. The case was one, he said, of such a peculiar
543The Bishop of London
 said, the facts contained in the Petition were of such a nature as to call upon their Lordships to interfere. The question as to the nullity of the marriage would remain to be decided hereafter.The Lord Chancellor
 cordially concurred in the propriety of bringing in the Bill as the only means by which the conduct of the parties could be investigated, but if it should turn out that the marriage had been legally contracted, he saw no ground on which their Lordships could be authorised to declare it null and void.The Bishop of Bristol
 did not rise to express an opinion on the many points touched upon by the noble Lord, but to suggest the propriety of his withdrawing his Resolutions, and bringing forward, should he feel so inclined, a substantive motion, in relation to the very important subject of the Poor-laws. The noble Lord could not, perhaps, confer a greater benefit on the country than a revision of those laws, and should he propose any plan of amendment, he (the Duke of Wellington) would give it his best consideration. But the Resolutions which the noble Lord then proposed, went, instead of directing their Lordships' attention to the practical defects, and the practical remedies for the defects, of the existing Poor-laws, to the considering a number of important questions and measures, each of which required minute investigation. The noble Lord first proposed, as a resolution, that they should relieve all the poor—a resolution, no doubt, very desirable, if it could be accomplished;—next, that they should have a new system of County-rates; that they should have a new system of Poor-rates, a subject of vast importance, and which should be disembarrassed as much as possible from every other;—that they should have a new system of road-making, so far as the employment of the poor in the formation of roads was concerned;—that they should have a new system of parishes;—and that they should have a new compulsory system of friendly societies—all subjects of importance, each well worthy of their Lordships' attention; but as such very unfitting to be presented in the gross in the manner of the noble Lord's Resolutions. He trusted, that without further remark, the noble Lord would see the expediency of withdrawing his Resolutions, and, if he would, of bringing the subject before the House in a more substantive form.The Duke of Wellington
 presented a Petition from the Justices of the Peace and the inhabitants of the county of Linlithgow, against the proposed increase of the Duty on British Spirits. The noble Lord remarked, that when the measure to which this petition referred was first introduced in another place it was entirely upon financial grounds, and for the purposes of revenue; but if the operation of the measure went to afford an undue protection to the West India interests, and if it interfered with that arrangement which was made, in 1825, by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (Lord Goderich), so as to give an unfair advantage by an alteration of the proportion of protection to one party over the other, it was a measure which ought to meet with the most serious consideration before it was adopted. He quite concurred in the prayer of the petition.The Earl of Rosebery
 said, he was extremely happy to see such a number of petitions presented against this measure. He had, their Lordships would recollect, adverted to this subject on a former evening, and he gave notice that it was his intention, in case the new duties should be pressed, to oppose the measure.The Earl of Malmesbury
661 said, he now rose to present to their Lordships the Petition which the Ship-owners of London had done him the honour to intrust to his care. He thought it was a Petition which well deserved the most serious attention of their Lordships, and he should make a few observations upon it, as he conceived that it related to a subject of extreme importance, not only to the petitioners themselves, but to the general interests of the country. In doing so he should abstain, on this occasion, from entering into any detailed statements, because he did not consider this a proper or fit occasion for them, and because he intended presently to move for certain papers, which, when produced, would furnish their Lordships with most important information on this subject, and would tend to remove many of the delusive errors and mistaken notions which were abroad regarding this question. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships, that when the present new-fangled principles of commerce were first introduced,—at the. time when those new and mischievous principles were proposed by a Minister of the Crown, who had since retired from office, but whose pernicious principles appeared still to sway the councils of his Majesty's Government,—it would be in the recollection of their Lordships that at that period the Ship-owners of London, and indeed of every other port in the kingdom, strongly protested against the measure, and expressed their opinion—an opinion repeated in the present Petition—that the change introduced by that measure would be followed by the most detrimental consequences to their own interests, and to the interests of the country at large. A melancholy experience of the effects of that measure had fully verified those predictions, for the result was, that that measure had been productive of the most disastrous consequences to the shipping and commerce of this country. It was in vain to expect that British Shipping, taxed as it was with such a variety of expenses, could hope to compete with foreign. For building and wages the British Ship-owners paid nearly double. Now what was the effect of the alteration of the Navigation-laws, on which
661Earl Slanhope
 thought the present low state of the Shipping-trade well worthy of inquiry, with a view to devising a remedy; and that the thanks of the country were due to the noble Earl (Stanhope) for his zealous endeavours to bring the case of the Ship-owners before Parliament.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, that the British shipping had increased since, and in consequence of the Reciprocity Treaty Acts; and that the statements made by his Majesty's Ministers were complete answers to the complaints of the noble Earl. He did not object to the production of the documents, but he thought they were perhaps more voluminous than was requisite.The Duke of Buckingham
l.l.,66951,965Shewing an increase of
51,965Shewing an increase of166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried
166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carried
114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carriedTons.
Tons.
51,965Shewing an increase of
51,965Shewing an increase of166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried
166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carried
114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carriedTons.
Tons.2,184,5355th January, 1830, was
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was2,094,3575th January, 1829, was
2,094,3575th January, 1829, was2,086,8985th January, 1828, was
2,086,8985th January, 1828, was1,950,6305th January, 1827, was
1,950,6305th January, 1827, was2,144,5985th January, 1826, was
2,144,5985th January, 1826, was1,797,3205th January, 1825, was
1,797,3205th January, 1825, was1,740,8595th January, 1824, was
1,740,8595th January, 1824, was1,664,1865th January, 1823 was
1,664,1865th January, 1823 was1,599,2745th January, 1822, was
1,599,2745th January, 1822, wasTons.
Tons.
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was2,094,3575th January, 1829, was
2,094,3575th January, 1829, was2,086,8985th January, 1828, was
2,086,8985th January, 1828, was1,950,6305th January, 1827, was
1,950,6305th January, 1827, was2,144,5985th January, 1826, was
2,144,5985th January, 1826, was1,797,3205th January, 1825, was
1,797,3205th January, 1825, was1,740,8595th January, 1824, was
1,740,8595th January, 1824, was1,664,1865th January, 1823 was
1,664,1865th January, 1823 was1,599,2745th January, 1822, was
1,599,2745th January, 1822, wasTons.
Tons.668 said, it was very prudent of the noble Earl to enter into a general discussion on the subject, and to assume as facts, matters which the papers he was about to move for would disprove, After the explanation given by the noble Duke, it was unnecessary to offer any observations whatever upon this subject; but he was desirous of noticing some of the statements made by the noble Earl; it was true, as staled by the noble Earl, that it was impossible to ascertain the exact amount of tonnage in any one year, because the number of voyages made by the same ship was not specified in the accounts; but they would enable their Lordships to draw a companion between one year and
l.l.,66951,965Shewing an increase of
51,965Shewing an increase of166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried
166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carried
114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carriedTons.
Tons.
51,965Shewing an increase of
51,965Shewing an increase of166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried
166,595In 1827, 1828, and 1829, carried114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carried
114,630In 1814, 1815, and 1816, carriedTons.
Tons.2,184,5355th January, 1830, was
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was2,094,3575th January, 1829, was
2,094,3575th January, 1829, was2,086,8985th January, 1828, was
2,086,8985th January, 1828, was1,950,6305th January, 1827, was
1,950,6305th January, 1827, was2,144,5985th January, 1826, was
2,144,5985th January, 1826, was1,797,3205th January, 1825, was
1,797,3205th January, 1825, was1,740,8595th January, 1824, was
1,740,8595th January, 1824, was1,664,1865th January, 1823 was
1,664,1865th January, 1823 was1,599,2745th January, 1822, was
1,599,2745th January, 1822, wasTons.
Tons.
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was
2,184,5355th January, 1830, was2,094,3575th January, 1829, was
2,094,3575th January, 1829, was2,086,8985th January, 1828, was
2,086,8985th January, 1828, was1,950,6305th January, 1827, was
1,950,6305th January, 1827, was2,144,5985th January, 1826, was
2,144,5985th January, 1826, was1,797,3205th January, 1825, was
1,797,3205th January, 1825, was1,740,8595th January, 1824, was
1,740,8595th January, 1824, was1,664,1865th January, 1823 was
1,664,1865th January, 1823 was1,599,2745th January, 1822, was
1,599,2745th January, 1822, wasTons.
Tons.668Lord Ellenborough
671670 said, he thought that the question had been unfairly argued by the noble Lord who had just addressed them. It would have been preposterous if he had argued, that the increase of the shipping of some states was not followed by a diminution of the shipping of others. When he called for documents, he was not to be met by accounts pulled out of the pocket of a Cabinet Minister, which might perhaps hereafter be described as such document had before been, as nothing more than private memoranda. When an account was produced of the declared value of articles exported, we were told that it was impossible to obtain a correct account, because on some occasions the value was
671670Earl Stanhope
 admitted that the Shipowners were relieved in one way, but they were burthened in another by the taxes to which they were obliged to contribute for compensating all these corporations. It was not, however, his intention to enter into minute details—but to take such a general view of the subject, as would authorize him to conclude by moving for certain returns calculated to throw light on it.Earl Stanhope
 in reply to the noble Duke, his relation, observed, that the statements of the Ship-owners were more worthy of credit than the public documents. Their distress could not be doubted in the teeth of their own assertions, and indeed it was proved by the necessity they had been laid under, of entering into competition with foreigners, who could build, victual, man, and repair their ships at so much less cost than they could.Earl Stanhope
l.667666665 said, he hoped their Lordships would allow him to make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the noble Duke. The noble Duke had said, that the increase of tonnage necessarily proved the prosperity of the Shipping-interest. In the course of the observations he had already made, he had protested against any such inference being drawn from the amount of tonnage. On that subject he would repeat what he had said last year. In 1814, 1815, and 1816, (he did not quote from written documents) there was a decrease of tonnage. In 1817 and 1818 there was a considerable increase in the number of ships and tonnage. In 1819, 1820, and 1821, there was a decrease in the number of ships and the amount of tonnage, although these were years of comparative prosperity. In the year 1826 there was a great decrease, and in the years 1827 and 1828 there was a progressive increase. According to the noble Duke, the Shipowners could not be in a state of great depression, because the various circumstances referred to shewed an increase in the amount of tonnage. This view of the subject was, however, fallacious, and it was necessary that the accounts should be laid before the House, in order that they should be accessible to all who were anxious about the
l.667666665Earl Stanhope
660s. presented a Petition from the riband-weavers of Coleshill, Warwickshire, complaining of Distress. The Petition, the noble Lord remarked, was signed by 2,400 persons, who stated that they were involved in the deepest distress. They stated that riband-weaving had been reduced full fifty per cent; that, the workmen's wages on an average did not exceed 4660s.Earl Stanhope
.—The Shipowners were relieved in proportion.The Duke of Wellington
s.s.664734In 1829 the number was
734In 1829 the number was857In 1828 the number was
857In 1828 the number was911In 1827 the number was
911In 1827 the number was1037In 1826 the number was
1037In 1826 the number was1003In 1825the number was
1003In 1825the number was837In 1824 the number was
837In 1824 the number was604In 1823 the number was
604In 1823 the number was571In 1822 the number was
571In 1822 the number was597In 1821 the number was
597In 1821 the number was635In 1820 the number was
635In 1820 the number was797In 1819 the number was
797In 1819 the number was761In 1818 the number was
761In 1818 the number was766In 1817 the number was
766In 1817 the number was866In 1816 the number was
866In 1816 the number was949In 1815 the number was
949In 1815 the number was733In 1814 the number was
733In 1814 the number was
734In 1829 the number was
734In 1829 the number was857In 1828 the number was
857In 1828 the number was911In 1827 the number was
911In 1827 the number was1037In 1826 the number was
1037In 1826 the number was1003In 1825the number was
1003In 1825the number was837In 1824 the number was
837In 1824 the number was604In 1823 the number was
604In 1823 the number was571In 1822 the number was
571In 1822 the number was597In 1821 the number was
597In 1821 the number was635In 1820 the number was
635In 1820 the number was797In 1819 the number was
797In 1819 the number was761In 1818 the number was
761In 1818 the number was766In 1817 the number was
766In 1817 the number was866In 1816 the number was
866In 1816 the number was949In 1815 the number was
949In 1815 the number was733In 1814 the number was
733In 1814 the number was663 said, that he felt as acutely as any noble Lord for the distress of any class of the community, but he could prove from official details that his noble friend was entirely in error respecting his view of the present condition of the Shipping-interest of Great Britain, and that our merchant vessels had increased since the adoption of the new measures to which the noble Earl had ascribed an injurious operation. He spoke upon this point from official details. In the year 1814; the number of British ships entered inwards was 8,975, in the next three years they averaged 9,959, and then from 1820 to 1823, they averaged 11,056; the same augmented average was observable in the years 1821., 1825, and 1826, when it was 12,574; and in 1827, 1828, 1829, the number averaged 13,409, being near 5,000 more ships in that year than in 1814, and 1,200 more than the average number for the three years preceding the reciprocity treaties to which such injurious consequences had been ascribed. In the last year the entries were 13,659, and the tonnage 2,184,535, being the greatest number ever known in the commercial history of this country. He begged their Lordships to remark, that the increase was gradual and progressive, occurring year after year. It was not therefore the result, as the noble Earl might suppose, of the ancient laws, nor had it been impeded by the new laws. In conjunction with this gradual increase of British shipping, he would wish their Lordships to observe what had been the progress of foreign shipping. In 1814, when the number of British ships entering inwards was 8,975, the number of foreign ships was 5,286; in 1817, when the average number of British ships was 9,959, the number of foreign was 3,974, shewing a large decrease in the latter. In 1820, the number of foreign ships was 4,639; in 1823 it was 3,573; in 1826 it was 6,116; and in 1829 it was 5,218, shewing that the relative increase of shipping was altogether on the side of this country. In fact, there had been rather a decrease of foreign vessels, and a great increase of British ships engaged, as the noble Earl would have it, in a sadly losing trade. All this, however, and every thing of the same kind, went for nothing with the noble Earl. It was perfectly true that the increase of trade with those countries to which we were bound by reciprocity treaties had not been so great as their Lordships might desire, but still there had been an increase, Again,
s.s.664734In 1829 the number was
734In 1829 the number was857In 1828 the number was
857In 1828 the number was911In 1827 the number was
911In 1827 the number was1037In 1826 the number was
1037In 1826 the number was1003In 1825the number was
1003In 1825the number was837In 1824 the number was
837In 1824 the number was604In 1823 the number was
604In 1823 the number was571In 1822 the number was
571In 1822 the number was597In 1821 the number was
597In 1821 the number was635In 1820 the number was
635In 1820 the number was797In 1819 the number was
797In 1819 the number was761In 1818 the number was
761In 1818 the number was766In 1817 the number was
766In 1817 the number was866In 1816 the number was
866In 1816 the number was949In 1815 the number was
949In 1815 the number was733In 1814 the number was
733In 1814 the number was
734In 1829 the number was
734In 1829 the number was857In 1828 the number was
857In 1828 the number was911In 1827 the number was
911In 1827 the number was1037In 1826 the number was
1037In 1826 the number was1003In 1825the number was
1003In 1825the number was837In 1824 the number was
837In 1824 the number was604In 1823 the number was
604In 1823 the number was571In 1822 the number was
571In 1822 the number was597In 1821 the number was
597In 1821 the number was635In 1820 the number was
635In 1820 the number was797In 1819 the number was
797In 1819 the number was761In 1818 the number was
761In 1818 the number was766In 1817 the number was
766In 1817 the number was866In 1816 the number was
866In 1816 the number was949In 1815 the number was
949In 1815 the number was733In 1814 the number was
733In 1814 the number was663The Duke of Wellington
817816 said, that, with the leave of the House, he was anxious, seeing a noble friend of his (Lord Aberdeen) in his place, to say a few-words with respect to a motion of his which stood for Tuesday next. His object in giving notice of that motion was, to induce the noble Earl (Aberdeen) to bring forward to the House some explanation of the foreign policy of this country. Two years had now elapsed since the accession of that noble Lord to his present office, and their Lordships had not been able as yet to discover the principles upon which the foreign policy of this country was carried on. He alluded more particularly to the circumstances connected with the settlement of Greece. They had been told that that settlement was now nearly brought to a conclusion; and if that were the case, the papers respecting it should be laid before them. He wished to know whether these papers, the production of which the noble Lord had promised more than two months ago, were on the point of being laid before the House. If they were about being laid before the House, as he did not wish at all to embarrass any negotiation that might be going on, or to give any embarrassment to his Majesty's Government, he should most probably not persevere in his motion. When the papers were in the hands of their Lordships, it would be for them to see whether that settlement had been adjusted upon principles honourable and satisfactory to the country, and it would be open to any noble Lord who chose to do so, to take up the question, and to bring that, or any other part of our foreign policy, under their Lordships' notice. He should be determined by the answer of the noble Lord on this occasion as to whether he should bring forward the motion of which he he had given
817816The Marquis of Londonderry
818 said, he was sure the House would scarcely expect that he should follow the noble Lord through the observations which he had made, the more especially as the noble Lord stated that he had risen merely to put a question. That Question he was prepared to answer, and on this occasion he should do no more than answer it. He begged to state that these papers were in the hands of the printer, and that he should be prepared to lay them on the Table of the House on Monday next; and he had only to add, that he should do so, not in consequence of the Motion of which the noble Marquis had given notice, and still less in consequence of the publications in the foreign Gazettes, but solely because the transaction had now
818The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that in presenting a Petition from the Loyal Free Barons of the Town and Port of Dover, complaining of the cruel situation in which Protestant Officers and Soldiers were placed in being compelled upon foreign stations to join in the superstitious rites of the Greek and Roman Catholic Church, he would take the opportunity of asking the noble Duke opposite, whether it was the intention of Government to issue an order giving the relief sought for by the petitioners.The Earl of Winchilsea
 did not mean to conceal from the House, that this petition was founded upon circumstances which had come out upon a recent court-martial. He would not enter, at present, into the merits of that court-martial, nor would he say one word upon its judgment. He had, however, a sincere hope that Protestants would be placed forthwith upon an equality with their Catholic fellow-subjects who were not compelled to participate in, nor be present at, any ceremonies of the Church of England, which were repugnant to their feelings. Attendance at ceremonies of the Greek or Roman Catholic Church must necessarily be repugnant to the feelings of any man who conscientiously professed the Protestant religion. He hoped that some measure would be speedily adopted to relieve the scruples of tender consciences.The Earl of Winchilsea
920 said, that though this Bill had been already read a second time, and had gone through a committee, he had not been able to attend on either of those occasions; but he must add, that his absence was entirely his own fault, and not at all attributable to the noble and learned Lord who had introduced the Bill, who had given him due notice of the several stages of its progress. His opinions with regard to it might be brought into a narrow compass, but he should not at present enter upon a detail of them, as he trusted that the third reading of the Bill would be postponed for some days longer. He thought the Lord Chancellor had judged very rightly in not pressing at an earlier period the third reading of this Bill. He was of opinion, that their Lordships should not decide finally upon this Bill without first knowing what would be done with a great many other bills which
920The Earl of Eldon
921 said, he had taken care to have the usual notices sent to the noble and learned Lord of the second reading of this Bill, and of the committal of it. The noble and learned Lord's absence he understood had been accidental, and the noble Lord only did him justice in stating that it was not attributable to any fault of his. He should feel extremely happy indeed in communicating with the noble and learned Lord on the subject, as he was of opinion that there; was not an individual in the country who was more capable of giving sound and wholesome advice with regard to every thing connected with the administration of justice, both in the Court of Chancery and in that House, than the noble and learned Lord. As the noble Lord had stated that he would communicate with him in private on the subject, he should
921The Lord Chancellor
.—Until the petition is read, I cannot tell what that relief is.The Duke of Wellington
 observed, that he certainly could not say that Government had given any order to put an end to the military practices complained of in the Petition. There were many statements in the Petition which he knew to be untrue, more particularly that which declared that Pagans and others did not attend on the ceremonies of the Protestant Church of England. That attendance he had himself witnessed.The Duke of Wellington
 thought, that, in justice to Prince Leopold, the additional papers should be produced as speedily as possible. He wished the noble Earl to name the day when he thought they would be ready.The Earl of Darnley
996 said, that when he proposed a question on a former night, upon the subject of Greece, the noble Earl seemed to think that he was not treating the Government with the forbearance which was called for. Had the noble Earl then treated Prince Leopold with the forbearance which was due to him? His Royal Highness agreed to accept the sovereignty of Greece on certain conditions: had those conditions been complied with? It was also essential to know whether Austria, who had been a party to the Treaties of Paris and Vienna, by which the balance of power was settled, had consented to the arrangement. He wished the papers should be communicated in an ungarbled form. The inference to be drawn from the noble Earl's statement was, that it was merely a question of money with Prince Leopold. His Royal Highness had conducted himself in a most honourable manner since his cennexion with this country, and had decided, he thought, correctly in refusing to accept the sovereignty of this new State. He was sure that his Majesty's Ministers could never establish any sort of kingdom there which would not, in the end, become the prey of Russia, and be divided or partitioned as Poland had been. The establishment of such a kingdom, he was convinced, would only lead to future wars, and he was very much deceived if he did not see those wars already in embryo. The consequences which would arise to this country, therefore, he apprehended would be of fearful moment. He should like to have the papers laid on the Table, in order to learn whether Russia, as he had stated upon a former evening, was the Power which had brought Turkey to agree to the arrangement, and whether she had not remitted a million of ducats out of the sum which Turkey was bound to pay her, in order to induce the Porte to consent to a settlement to which it was
996The Marquis of Londonderry
997 said, that
997The Marquis of Londonderry
 was not willing to put any question that was not necessary, where the interest of an illustrious and excellent individual was concerned; but his noble friend having accompanied his presentation of these papers with a statement which might create prejudices, it became necessary that he should be clearly understood. He wished to inquire therefore whether the refusal of Prince Leopold was founded upon money transactions; or upon other circumstances arising out of the situation of Greece.The Marquis of Lansdown
 thought this statement would cast reflections on a high personage, and he wished to know when the papers could be produced.The Earl of Darnley
 thought, that the fair course would have been, for the noble Earl to have abstained from all statements until the papers were before the House.The Earl of Winchilsea
 had clearly understood the noble Secretary of State to say, that the Prince's resignation was totally distinct from any question of a pecuniary nature.The Marquis of Bute
 asked, if the noble Earl did not intend to found any motion, either upon the papers already produced, or that were to be produced?Lord Holland
 wished to ask the noble Duke, whether he had any objection to produce the warrant or order under which, for the last two years, the 4½-per-cent duties levied upon Sugar, had been remitted?The Marquis of Lansdown
 gave notice that he should move for it to-morrow.The Marquis of Lansdown
Ex-parte could not but regret that the noble Earl had not refrained from saying anything on the subject until he had all the papers ready. Ex-parteEarl Grey
989 said: Your Lordships will hardly imagine that I rise with the intention of opposing in the slightest degree the Address we have just heard read—in every word of which I sincerely and painfully concur, so far as it relates to the expressing of our deep regret for the lamentable indisposition of the Sovereign; and in saying this I am well assured I speak the common sentiments and feelings of this House; for the regret experienced in consequence of his Majesty's illness is deep and universal, and the hope of his recovery is cherished with the utmost earnestness by all ranks and classes of his subjects. So far I concur entirely with the Address; and I also concur in the course proposed by the noble Duke, of giving an immediate answer to his Majesty's Message, expressing those sentiments respecting his illness to which I have already alluded, and declaring our readiness to proceed as soon as possible to the consideration of the important measure which is to follow. My Lords, I feel the deepest and the most poignant regret for the illness of his Majesty, and I entertain sincere disposition to relieve his Majesty from everything which might render painful the last moments of his life, or which might in the least tend to throw any impediment in the way of that recovery to which all Englishmen so anxiously and earnestly look; but we are to consider that we have a very important duty to perform towards the public. I do not now mean to question the noble Duke as to the mode of proceeding which he means to adopt, to comply with his Majesty's request. This, we are informed, will be stated by the Lord Chancellor to-morrow. I cannot, however, help declaring, that I shall consider it my duty to take the first opportunity that presents itself of explaining my views upon the subject. The question is one which should be entered upon with all due feeling and respect for his Majesty, but at the same time we must enter upon it with a strong impression of its deep importance
989Earl Grey
994993992991990 said, that he had the honour to present to their Lordships the information referred to in his Majesty's Speech at the commencement of the Session, relating to the pacification and final settlement of Greece. He could not lay those papers on the Table of the House without taking the opportunity of expressing the sense which he entertained of the forbearance which the House had shown throughout the whole of these transactions. Not only had very natural curiosity been repressed, but discussion
994993992991990 The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that the noble Marquis put so many questions, that he could not conveniently answer them at present. He would repeat what he had already stated,—that it was only late on Friday night that ho. received the information from his Royal Highness that he renounced the Sovereignty. Their Lordships might rest satisfied that they should have all the papers connected with this negotiation, from the commencement till the present period, laid before them; that not a syllable should be kept back, and that every atom of information that might be necessary should be afforded to them. But he would entreat their Lordships not to enter upon the discussion of this affair until all the documents were fully before them, and he trusted that no noble Lord would infer from any thing that had fallen from him, that he had pronounced any opinion upon the conduct of Prince Leopold. What he had stated, he had felt bound to state in justice to himself. It was only a short time ago that he had declared to their Lordships, that nothing prevented the final completion of this arrangement but matters of minor importance, and therefore lest their Lordships should suppose that he had been guilty of the grossest falsehood, and in order to set himself right with their Lordships, he felt bound to state that it was only within the last few days that a difference had arisen, and had been taken up on grounds with which he was not, of course, acquainted at the time he made that declaration. When the whole of the papers were in the hands of their Lordships, he should be able to give an explanation of the whole transaction, and until then he would entreat their Lordships to suspend their opinion on the subject.The Earl of Aberdeen
 would produce them as speedily as possible, and probably by Friday next.The Earl of Aberdeen
 replied, that before his Royal Highness had agreed to accept the dignity, a discussion had taken place, which terminated on the 20th of February, by his Royal Highness's acceptance of the offered Kingdom. Subsequent to that time, up to the last week, no question was agitated with his Highness but that of money; but in the last week new grounds of difference arose, and the resignation had reference to them, as the noble Marquis intimated.The Earl of Aberdeen
 had every disposition to give all the papers; but at present he had no intention of founding any motion upon them.The Earl of Aberdeen
 replied, certainly not.The Earl of Aberdeen
995 rose, to enter his earnest protest against the unfairness of the noble Earl's proceeding. So far as regarded the noble Earl's historical relation of the contents of the papers which he had presented, he was perfectly satisfied; but the noble Earl, had gone further, and entered into a statement which amounted to neither more nor less than an accusation against Prince Leopold, founded on papers which were in his possession alone. He wished to learn from the noble Earl whether the grounds of hesitation urged by Prince Leopold, were not derived from intelligence received from Greece. He would not then enter into more detail, but he called on the House and the public to pause before they pronounced an opinion unfavourable to his Royal Highness. He
995Lord Durham
987"His Majesty relies on the dutiful at-
987"His Majesty thinks it necessary to inform the House that he is labouring under a severe indisposition, which renders it inconvenient and painful to his Majesty to sign, with his own hand, the Public Instruments which require the sign manual."GEORGE R. stated, that he had a Message, signed by his Majesty, to lay before their Lordships. His Grace then placed the Message in the hands of the Lord Chancellor, who read as follows:—
987"His Majesty relies on the dutiful at-
987"His Majesty thinks it necessary to inform the House that he is labouring under a severe indisposition, which renders it inconvenient and painful to his Majesty to sign, with his own hand, the Public Instruments which require the sign manual."GEORGE R.The Duke of Wellington
988 then rose, and spoke to the following effect:—My Lords, I consider it will be the anxious wish of your Lordships, to take the earliest opportunity of returning an answer to the Message which I have just had the honour of communicating to your Lordships by the King's command. I am confident that your Lordships will feel that sorrow which is common to all his Majesty's subjects on account of the lamentable indisposition with which, it grieves me to say, he has for some time past been afflicted. My Lords, I propose to defer to a future opportunity the motion that his Majesty's Message be taken into consideration, with a view to deciding upon the mode in which the desired relief may be afforded to his Majesty. I am convinced it will be your Lordships' wish not to allow a moment to pass, without expressing your Lordships' sorrow for his Majesty's indisposition, and your anxious hope that his health may be re-established at an early period. I am also satisfied that your Lordships will be anxious to express to his Majesty, your earnest desire to relieve him from the pain and inconvenience he has informed you he labours under in signing those public instruments and documents which require the sign manual. I do not apologize to your Lordships for bringing this matter now before you; but rather take credit to myself for seizing the earliest opportunity of proposing to your Lordships to concur with me in an humble address to his Majesty, in answer to the Message he has intrusted to me. My Lords, I will not take this opportunity of entering into a discussion as to the measure which his Majesty's Government may deem it advisable to propose, for the purpose of affording his Majesty that relief which he requires. This will be done by the Lord Chancellor to-morrow, and I shall accordingly now content myself with moving "That a humble Address be presented to his Majesty, to assure his Majesty that this House deeply laments that his Majesty is labouring under severe indisposition, and to assure his Majesty that this House earnestly and anxiously hopes that by the favour of Divine Providence
988The Duke of Wellington
 had no objection to give the information, if the noble Marquis would move for it regularly.The Duke of Wellington
10671066106510641063 rose and said, that he presented himself to their Lordships, in consequence of the notice given yesterday by the noble Duke at the head of the Government, in conformity with the recommendation and suggestion contained in his Majesty's most gracious Message, to state the nature and outline of the measure which it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to propose to the House for their adoption, in order to give effect to the royal wish. He deeply lamented the occasion which called for that measure, and in the expression of that feeling he was sure he carried with him the sympathies of their Lordships, as he did those of every individual throughout this loyal nation. He was thoroughly and deeply sensible of the delicate and difficult nature of the measure which he had to submit to their Lordships. It was of the utmost importance, as the necessity of the case required that some measure should be adopted for carrying his Majesty's wishes into effect. At the same time the measure must be adopted in such a shape and form as not to occasion any detriment to the public service. He felt deeply the importance of the recommendation offered by the noble Earl (Grey) who took part in the conversation last night, that with respect to a measure of that
10671066106510641063The Lord Chancellor
 suggested it was not necessary to read the Bill at length at present, as it was to be read a second time to-morrow.The Earl of Eldon
10691068 said, he willingly bore testimony to the fairness and candour of the statement which the noble Lord on the
10691068Earl Grey
 stated, that the circumstances of the case rendered it advisable for them to press forward the measure with as much celerity as was consistent with the forms of the House. He had no objection to defer the second reading till Thursday, but on this express condition—that this Bill was to be passed through all its remaining stages on that one day.The Duke of Wellington
 made an observation which was not audible below the Bar.The Earl of Eldon
 remarked, that he was urged to press this upon the noble and learned Lord, from his strong feeling that it was a matter of much importance that it should be within their immediate power to amend or alter the Bill, if it were deemed necessary, before the close of the present Session.Earl Grey
10721071 said, that he rose to move for a document connected with the application of money for the public service; and though he did not anticipate any objection to his Motion, as a similar motion had been acceded to elsewhere, subsequently to the period when he gave notice of his intention to bring the subject forward in that House, he hoped that their Lordships would indulge him with their attention for a few moments, whilst he briefly stated the reasons which induced him to disapprove of the nature of the proceeding which had been adopted, and to think that if it were not noticed by Parliament, it might lead to unfortunate consequences hereafter, in cases of a similar character. For though what had recently been done, had been done without any improper views or intentions, it had set aside the unvaried usage of 170 years, by which the 4½-per-cent-duties, or the articles paid in kind for those duties, had been subjected, in common with all other merchandise imported into the country, to the duties imposed by Parliament. It appeared that of late, by cover of the royal prerogative, they had been exempted from duties, and thus formed a fund for the Crown, not applicable to any purposes recognized by Parliament. He admitted that under the common law it was one of the Royal prerogatives, that all things
10721071The Marquis of Lansdown
1073 made a few observations in reply, in which he con-
1073The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that he did not rise to object to this Motion, but to express his sense of the noble Marquis's candour in not imputing any thing improper to his Majesty's Government in making the remission of which he complained. He would not, as the House had other business before it, enter into a history of the 4½-per-cent-duties. It was well known that those duties were paid in kind in the West-Indies. It was therefore clear, that the articles on which those duties were so paid were the property of the Crown; and there could be no doubt that it was a constitutional principle, that the property of the Crown was not liable to pay duty on importation into the country. He did not contend that it was always prudent to put that principle in practice, but he did mean to contend that it was not imprudent to put it in practice in this case, because there were peculiar circumstances attached to it, which were not likely to be found in any other case. In the year 1825, the Act of the 6th Geo. 4th was passed, which rendered this fund of the 4½-pcr-ccnt-duties liable to the payment of certain stipends to the clergy in the West-Indies; and that Act not only required that that fund should be so applied, but also recognized its application to the salaries of certain officers in the West-Indies, and to the payment of certain pensions, saying, in express words, that after these were paid, the surplus of the fund was to be applied to defray the stipends of the clergy. Under these circumstances, he contended that these funds were taken out of the hands of the Crown, were applied under the control and superintendence of Parliament, and could never be abused for any purposes whatever. The noble Duke then read a clause from the Act to support his view of the subject. It was clear, he said, from the words of that clause, that the fund was a public fund, and that it could not be abused to any of the purposes which the noble Marquis supposed, when he mentioned spices and cinnamon. On these grounds he contended that the measure stood entirely upon its own grounds, and that it could never be used injuriously as a precedent.The Duke of Wellington
 complained that the papers had not been distributed. There were only 150 copies, and he was not fortunate enough to obtain one. In his view any discussion on them must be premature. Entertaining a very high opinion of Prince Leopold, he should be very slow to form any suspicions derogatory to his integrity, and would wait till all the information was before him to make up his mind on the subject.The Earl of Malmesbury
 thought it was impossible to read the papers without coming to the conclusion that the Greek government, as a government dealing with another government, and not appealing to the universal suffrage of the people which created them, but acting on their own responsibility, distinctly acquiesced in the proposals of the Allies. He could not understand the whole of those documents in any other light than that of making Prince Leopold Sovereign of Greece, and of showing that he acquiesced in that arrangement. Noble Lords had, unwisely he thought, discussed this question, as if it were one of personal consideration to Prince Leopold and his Majesty's Government.Lord Ellenborough
ex-parte1123ex-parte admitted that the practice of asking questions of the Ministry might be inconvenient to the noble Lords who composed it: at the same time he felt it necessary to remind them, that it was an inconvenience to which all their noble predecessors had submitted. If he were called upon to select any period when there had been an uncommon forbearance of the practice of asking these questions, he would say that it was during the administration of the noble Duke. Indeed, the noble Earl had thanked their Lordships for the forbearance which they had displayed upon this very subject, and had said that it had proved very conducive to the settlement of the question. What he complained of was, that the noble Earl should have laid papers enough upon the Table to create an unjust impression against Prince Leopold, and should have withheld those which were calculated to remove it. Those noble Lords who had such a horror of ex-parte1123ex-parteLord Holland
 observed, that the mere fact of the noble Baron's having condemned the conduct of Government without having read the papers in explanation of it, was sufficient to show the fairness with which he would form his opinion upon it after he had perused them.Lord Ellenborough
 having moved according to the Order of the Day the third reading of the Suits in Equity Bill.The Lord Chancellor
11271126 regretted that the noble and learned Lord had not been able
11271126The Lord Chancellor
1128 said, that it was very strange that the Vice-Chancellor should have expressed such an opinion without intimating it to him. When the
1128The Lord Chancellor
 protested that there was no desire on his part to make the personal conduct of Prince Leopold the subject of discussion; and if it had been made so, it was entirely owing to the noble Lords opposite, who had brought forward such a case against Prince Leopold as made it necessary for his friends to remove forthwith the impression that might make, by contrary declarations. Whatever inconvenience had arisen upon this subject was owing to the incomplete manner in which these papers had been laid upon the Table.Earl Grey
 said, he did not complain that the noble Earl had not produced the papers to which he had referred, but only that he had produced the others without them. Why were not the papers produced which accompanied the assent of the Greek Government?Earl Grey
1120ex-parte contended, that the noble Earl had introduced a premature discussion of the question founded on an 1120ex-parteEarl Grey
 said, it was not in his power to produce all the papers alluded to by the noble Earl. He had no authority to produce papers and confidential letters addressed to Prince Leopold by Count Capo d'Istrias. They were not official documents connected with the conferences. He had produced to the last syllabic all that had been transacted at the conferences. The noble Earl then repeated that he had never denied having received from Prince Leopold an announcement that he was likely to abdicate; but that announcement was founded upon the letters of Capo d'Istrias, dated before the assent of the Greek Government. The assent entirely changed the character of those letters, and that was the reason which induced him to think that his Royal Highness, either would or ought to have changed the intention which he had formed in consequence of the letters.The Earl of Aberdeen
1121 said, he could not have produced those papers, because Prince Leopold had not thought proper to give them to him until after he had sent in his resignation. It would, perhaps,
1121The Earl of Aberdeen
1119 said, nobody could wish more ardently than he wished, that the fullest information should be given to the House upon this subject; and he was persuaded that the more the conduct of the Ministers was examined, the more their Lordships would be satisfied that they had done their duty. He did not propose to enter into a discussion respecting all the papers upon the Table of the House. Those to which the noble Lord had alluded, were Protocols of the Conferences between the three Plenipotentiaries in London; the last of which was held on the 14th of May. On that day the Plenipotentiaries received the assent of the Porte and of the Greek Government to the propositions of the Allies; and on the same day these papers were transmitted to his Royal Highness, the Sovereign Prince of Greece. But on the 15th his Royal Highness sent the Plenipotentiaries three letters received from Count Capo d'Istrias; two of them were dated the 6th of April, and the third on the 22nd of April. Those of the 6th described the state of Greece as one of great apprehension and alarm, and held out no very flattering prospects to his Royal Highness. But the letter of the 22nd contained the adhesion of the Greek Government to the propositions of the Allies, and they of course concluded that the assent of the Greek Government ought to have dissipated all the alarm created by the President's previous letters. These were the feelings of the Plenipotentiaries on the 15th. He then came to explain the mistake into which he thought the noble Baron had fallen. He had not, on the former evening, stated that up to Friday last they had no reason to apprehend any change in his Royal Highness; but what he did say was, that he had not been made acquainted with his determination to resign until 12 o'clock on Friday night. And he had also said, that up to a very
1119The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that the reason why Prince Leopold did not send in the papers referred to until after his resignation was, that he did not receive them from the French Ambassador until after Friday. With respect to the letters from Count Capo d'Istrias, the latter of which, the noble Lord said, ought to have changed his Royal Highness's determination, that letter announced indeed the acquiescence of the Greek government, but added, that the determination of the Allies was received by the Senate in deep silence. His Royal Highness had, therefore, no reason to suppose from that letter, that his government would be popular, and he was justified in resigning.Lord Durham
11181117 said, he rose to ask the noble
11181117Lord Durham
 answered, that he had received a letter from the Master of the Rolls, stating that he and the Vice-Chancellor thought a new Judge in Equity was not necessary.The Earl of Eldon
 explained, and added that he understood the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor to be, that no new Judge was necessary in Equity.The Earl of Eldon
11251124 begged leave to trouble the House with a few remarks on the subject. It. appeared to him that it would be advisable to be more deliberate on the present question, in consideration of the great changes which it was understood were projected in the Administration of Justice in England and Wales. It appeared to be in contemplation to appoint an additional Judge in the Court of King's
11251124Lord Eldon
1122 entreated their Lordships to suspend their judgments until they had the other papers before them, and had read those which were already on the Table. This discussion had arisen out of a recent practice—very irre-
1122The Duke of Wellington
1132 said, that he had
1132The Lord Chancellor
 expressed his satisfaction at perceiving a general inclination to alter the clause complained of.Lord Holland
 said, that the Dissenters had done no more than assert their just rights on the present occasion. An attempt had been made to take advantage of the feeling excited on the subject, to turn it to party purposes, which was effectually resisted by the Dissenters.Lord Calthorpe
11341133 assured their Lordships that when he entered the House that evening he had not the slightest intention of trespassing upon their notice. But entertaining, as he did, a strong opinion of the importance of the Bill, and of the prejudicial consequences to the best interests of the country which might ultimately arise from it, he felt himself compelled to crave the attention of their Lordships whilst he made two or three observations upon it. Most fully did he participate in the heartfelt anguish which pervaded the breast of every one of their Lordships, and the heart of every loyal man in the kingdom, on hearing the painful communication of Monday last, which had led to the measure on which their Lordships were then assembled to deliberate. Most sincerely and solemnly did he hope, that through the blessing of Divine Providence his Majesty would soon be restored to health and to the performance of those functions which the House was now going to delegate to others, and that this Bill, which was to sanction such delegation, would be of short, very short duration. He could assure their Lordships, that if he had consulted his private feelings, he should not have obtruded himself upon their attention at present,—for he felt the delicacy of the subject on which he had to speak, and he trusted that no word would fall on this occasion from his
11341133The Earl of Winchilsea
1135 confessed, that he felt great astonishment at the objection which the noble Earl had just taken to the measure proposed by his noble and learned friend on the Woolsack. His Majesty had now been afflicted by a severe disorder for more than six weeks. During that time he had been attended by some of the most able, learned, and experienced persons in the medical profession, who, as far as their knowledge permitted, had stated the nature of his Majesty's disorder; and there had not been the least hint given by or through them, of that additional misfortune to which the noble Karl had just alluded. His Majesty himself, under his Royal sign manual, had stated to their Lordships, that he desired them to consider of the indisposition under which he laboured, and of the best mode of giving him relief, in order that he might still carry on the public service. The Minister who upon that occasion had taken his Majesty's pleasure and sign manual—and he left it to the noble and learned Lord opposite to say whether he was right or not—was responsible to the House and to the country, that the indisposition to which the noble Earl alluded had no existence whatever at the time when he had the honour of taking his Majesty's commands regarding the late Royal communication. Under these circumstances, he was astonished that the noble Earl should even hint such a subject to the House and to the country. His Majesty had asked their Lordships to grant him relief. "We, His Majesty's servants," continued the noble Duke, "propose to your Lordships a measure guarded in every way which
1135The Duke of Wellington
 appealed to the House whether he had used any such expressions as the noble Duke had just attributed to him. The noble Duke had entirely misunderstood him: he never could have expressed, for he had never entertained, any doubt as to the vigour of the Royal mind; and he should be extremely sorry if an impression that he had either expressed or entertained such doubt, should remain upon their Lordships' minds. All he had meant to state was this,—and here he would just observe in passing, that he differed entirely from the noble Duke as to the fact of the medical attendants having told the public the character of his Majesty's disorder,—all he meant to state, he repeated, was this,—that this Bill was establishing a precedent for putting great power into the hands of individuals without any evidence having been produced at their bar as to the nature and extent of the indisposition of the Sovereign. He thought that such a proceeding was fraught with danger, for if a future Minister were to come down to the House, praying it to pass a similar bill under an indisposition of a different character from the present, on the part of the Monarch, and should state that their Lordships had granted the relief now asked for without any inquiry as to the necessity of granting it, this proceeding might prove prejudicial to the best interests of the country.The Earl of Winchilsea
11371136 said, that though he had listened with the greatest care and attention to the observations which had fallen from the noble Earl, he had not collected from them that the noble Earl either meant to make, or had made, that allusion which the noble Duke, under an unintentional mistake, had supposed him to have made. What he understood
11371136The Marquis of Lunsdown
 interrupted his observations, to remark that his noble friend near him (the duke of Wellington), had had a conversation with his Majesty yesterday, for a considerable time, and could inform their Lordships that his Majesty had suffered no inconvenience in sustaining his share of it.The Lord Chancellor
 was understood to suggest that a party of rank and station in the country, for instance a member of the privy council, should be appointed to affix the royal signature.Earl Grey
 contended that such a provision was unnecessary. It was already provided that the person affixing the royal signature to any document, must affix it in his Majesty's presence, and by his Majesty's command: and that before he affixed it, there must be endorsed on the document a memorandum, describing its nature and object, signed by three members of the Cabinet. These provisions rendered it, in his opinion, unnecessary to appoint any fixed person to apply the stamp.The Lord Chancellor
 contended that a person of rank and station ought to perform this important duty. As the Bill was at present worded, it might be performed by a mere domestic.Earl Grey
1138 concurred in the noble Earl's opinion. The fixing the
1138The Earl of Eldon
 observed, that from what had just fallen from the noble and learned Lord, it was quite evident that he had not read this Bill with his usual attention, else he would have perceived that the stamp could not be affixed without a memorandum in writing previously endorsed thereon by three members of the Cabinet. If he looked to a subsequent clause, he would also find that it could only be affixed in the presence of certain high officers of state, who were there named, and were ordered to attest it. Three privy councillors must give authority to affixing the signature, and one at least must be present to attest it.The Lord Chancellor
 declined to press his suggestion.Earl Grey
 suggested that there should be endorsed on each document, to which the royal stamp should be affixed, a memorandum, signed by three members of the Cabinet, stating that the nature and object of each document had been separately explained to his Majesty.Earl Grey
1139 conceived this amendment to be unnecessary, on account of the securities which were already provided in the Bill for preventing any improper use of the royal signature. Besides, there were different modes in which the nature of the document might be explained to his Majesty. It might be read over to his Majesty by one of his attendants, or his Majesty might read it over himself, or might be made acquainted with its contents by an abstract of them, or by conversation respecting them, or in various modes unnecessary for him to
1139The Lord Chancellor
 thought this amendment not required, now that it was rendered necessary for the person affixing the signature to receive his Majesty's command to do so, not by his mere assent, but by word of mouth. He rejoiced that this Bill was to be of short duration, and contended that on that account it could never prove prejudicial as a precedent. He therefore hoped that the noble Earl would withdraw his amendment.The Earl of Malmesbury
 thought that their Lordships could not take too much care when the power of affixing the royal signature to certain documents was thus delegated to subordinate individuals, to provide that his Majesty should clearly understand the nature of the documents to which he was to command his stamp to be affixed. Therefore it was, that he had proposed that a memorandum in writing should be endorsed on every document, stating that its nature had been properly explained to his Majesty before he gave a command, even by word of mouth, to any of his personal attendants to affix his signature. In conclusion, the noble Earl intimated his intention to meet the wishes of the House by withdrawing his amendment.Earl Grey
 proposed some verbal amendments, which were agreed to. He likewise suggested the expediency of enacting, that in cases where the sign manual was affixed to every sheet of the instrument, the affixing of the royal signature by the King's command in any one sheet should be held sufficient.The Earl of Eldon
 thought that such a clause was unnecessary, as it was intended to affix the royal signature by this Bill in all cases where the sign-manual was now required. He intended to alter the last clause of the Bill, as it was now printed. That clause provided that this act should continue in force until the expiration of one month after the meeting of the next Session of Parliament; but it was now his intention to propose to limit the duration of it to the present Session; so that if the illness of his Majesty should continue, it would be necessary for Ministers to make a fresh application to Parliament during the present Session for a prolongation of the powers given by this act, and if it ceased before that time, the act would expire of itself and become unnecessary.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that though he had expected that a shorter period would have been named for the duration of the Bill, he had no objection to extend it to the time now proposed.Earl Grey
 only had to request, that noble Lords would suspend their judgment till the whole case was before them; of the gentlemen who had promoted the Bill, he could assure their Lordships there was a complete justification.The Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry
 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Birmingham, complaining of a clause in the Birmingham Free School Bill, altering the principles on which the School was governed, which before was open to Dissenters; and which prevented Dissenters from being governors of this School. This was most unadvised, he thought, in the present temper of mankind.Earl Grey
 explained, that the clause in question formed part of the scheme for the government of the School, submitted to the Lord Chancellor, by whom it was referred to the Master, and afterwards confirmed by the Court. He did not advocate the continuance of the clause; but he was afraid that it could not be altered without affronting the first law authority. He would beg leave to suggest to the Lord Chancellor, to withdraw the committee, by which the difficulty he felt on the subject would be obviated.The Earl of Eldon
 said, he had the honour of laying on their Lordships' Table the Supplemental Papers relating to Greece.The Earl of Aberdeen
1190 rose to ask the noble Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, what was the date of the first Paper now submitted to Parliament, in reference to this subject? and also whether the Papers contained a Copy of the Memorial
1190Lord Durham
 replied, that the extreme anxiety shown by noble Lords opposite for the most ample information on this subject had induced him to lay on the Table all Papers that had passed between his Royal Highness Prince Leopold and himself, except such Letters marked "private," which his Royal Highness had done him the honour to address to him. In answer to the question put by the noble Lord, he begged to say that the first Paper now on the Table was a Letter of his dated January 31st, and the last was the memorial from the Greek Senate.The Earl of Aberdeen
 wished to observe, not however with a view of raising any captious question, that he never recollected any similar Papers being presented in a printed form to the House. The first page of the copy was manuscript, but the remainder was printed.Lord Holland
 said, that it was usual from his office, when Papers were presented by command of his Majesty, to have them presented in a printed form.The Earl of Aberdeen
 remarked, that the practice had always been such as stated by his noble friend (Lord Holland). He never knew it otherwise.Earl Grey
 observed, that the other course would certainly not cause so much delay in the delivery, for the printing took up considerable time. He knew not how long the practice had been to present Papers in a printed form; but he knew of late that such had been the course.The Earl of Aberdeen
 said, that there was always a motion to have Papers printed when they were laid on the Table; and when they were printed, noble Lords used to receive copies as they entered the House. He repeated, that he never before knew of printed Papers being presented to the House.Lord Holland
 said, that the practice had not been altered by him. He found the course he had pursued, in that and other cases, in existence in his office. But he would, if it were the pleasure of their Lordships, withdraw the present Papers, and present a copy in manuscript. The Earl of Aberdeen
1191 said, that as far as he was concerned, he had no objection to the Papers being presented in their present
1191Lord Holland
 observed, that the Papers he had presented to their Lordships had always been in manuscript.Earl Bathurst
 said, that it had certainly been customary sometimes to present printed Papers, and in that form they were most accessible and useful to their Lordships.The Earl of Harrowby
 suggested that probably it would be better to withdraw the Papers now on the Table, and present written copies.Lord Ellenborough
1257 observed, that although the papers now before the House afforded a mass of information upon the subject of the proceedings of the Allied Powers with regard to Greece, yet, as there had been diplomatic transactions of three years standing, it was quite clear they could not furnish all the information which the nature of the subject demanded. There were some parts which he wished to be clearly made out, especially with respect to the conduct of Russia towards Turkey, and he, therefore, wished to ask the noble Earl, whom he saw in his place, whether there was any objection to give the House copies of the Despatches of our Ambassador at Constantinople, relating to the mode in which
1257The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, that the noble Earl must perceive it was essential to arrive at the point to which he had already referred, namely, whether Russia had abandoned so large a portion of the compensation she claimed from the Turks, merely in order to induce Turkey to concede what was demanded from her by the Allied Powers, or whether Russia had other motives for that concession.The Marquis of Londonderry
 asked the noble Earl opposite, whether he was clearly to understand it to be the noble Earl's intention to lay before the House copies of the conferences that had taken place at Poros. He wished to know whether the fullest information would be afforded with respect to the disputes relating to the boundaries of Greece; and also whether any person had been specially deputed by his Majesty's Government to attend the discussions upon that subject.Lord Holland
 had asked the question, because, having attentively gone through the mass of those papers already before the House, he really was unable to divine the reasons which had induced the Allies to change the boundaries of Greece as settled by them on the 22nd of March. Now, as that change was one of a most important nature, he really was most anxious to know the reasons which had induced the Allied Powers to make it.Lord Holland
 said, that he believed in the copies of the Conferences at Poros the noble Lord would find all the information he required. A very full report of the discussions referred to would be found in them. No person had been specially deputed to make such a report, but he believed the noble Lord would find the papers very full upon that subject.The Earl of Aberdeen
 answered, that the reason why the copies of all the conferences had not been given was, that the. substance of them was embodied in the Protocols that had been laid on the Table of the House. As to the copies of the despatches, he could not give any answer till he had had time to consider how far the interests of other powers, as well as of this country, would be affected by laying them on the Table.The Earl of Aberdeen
 presented a Petition from Sir Jonah Barrington, Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, Ireland, praying to be heard by Counsel and Witnesses at their Lordships' bar, in order that he might have an opportunity of disproving the charges that had been brought against him. The noble Earl said, that he presented the Petition on two grounds; first, because he held it to be the duty of every Peer to present the petition of any man who thought himself aggrieved, and asked for a fair hearing; and secondly, because he had long known Sir Jonah Barrington, and ever found him honest, faithful, and zealous. He was sure that a fair and impartial hearing would be afforded the petitioner, and he hoped that it would restore him to his rank in society.The Earl of Westmorland
1347 took occasion to
1347The Earl of Darnley
 said, that the manner in which the business was regulated was fraught with inconvenience. He felt as great a respect for the privileges of the other House as any man could feel, but he must say that the doctrine which was held relative to money-clauses in bills had latterly been carried to an extreme point. The Commons insisted, that a clause in bills imposing penalties was a money-clause, because possibly money might be levied under it. He, however, was at a loss to know how such a clause could be so interpreted. The result was, that no bill, with a clause imposing a. money penalty, could originate in that House, although it was a place peculiarly fit for the consideration of measures connected with penalties; for instance, bills for the regulation of police, or bills for the regulation of law proceedings. The consequence of this system was, that all such bills began in the Commons, who were overlaid with business, and hundreds of accumulated orders. Ultimately, the bills were sent up to that House at a period of the Session when it was utterly impossible for the House to consider them properly. This matter struck him very forcibly, and he had some communication with the Members of the House of Commons on the subject, and he was glad to say, that a general feeling did exist, that the Commons had carried the point to which he had adverted too far. He now gave notice that it was his intention to bring this subject forward, in some shape or other, at a future day, in order that their Lordships might inquire whether a practice which was productive of so much delay should be persevered in.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, I have to acquaint you that his Majesty has summoned both Houses to be sworn: before that can take place, it is necessary that a Speaker of the House of Commons should be first chosen; and it is his Majesty's pleasure that you should repair to the place where you usually meet, and there proceed to the choice of a proper person, to be presented here (if chosen) to-morrow, at twelve o'clock, for his Majesty's Royal approbation.The Lord Chancellor
 addressed their Lordships as follows:—" I have to acquaint your Lordships, that in obedience to his Majesty's commands, his Majesty's, faithful Commons have proceeded to elect a Speaker, and that their choice has fallen on me. I well know, from the experience, I have already had, what are the duties of that important office; and I feel, as I ought, a great mistrust in my own powers to execute that office; but if it should be his Majesty's pleasure to disapprove of the choice, I now announce to your Lordships that his Majesty's faithful Commons will at once elect another Speaker.Mr. Manners Sutton
.—Mr. Sutton, I am commanded by his Majesty to assure you, that his Majesty is so fully sensible of your zeal for the public service, and of the sufficiency of your abilities to discharge the duties connected with the office, that he most willingly approves of the choice that has been made by his faithful Commons.The Lord Chancellor
.—My Lords; with a deep sense of gratitude I submit to his Majesty's will, and it now becomes my duty, in the name and on the behalf of the Commons of the United Kingdom, to lay claim by petition to all their undoubted rights and privileges,—more especially those of freedom from arrest for themselves, their servants and estates—of freedom in debate —and free access to, his Majesty whenever occasion may require; and I have also to beg his Majesty's most favourable construction of all their doings; and that if any error should be committed, it may be attributed to me alone, and not to his faithful Commons.The Speaker
.—Mr. Speaker, I have it further in command to inform you, that it is his Majesty's most gracious will to confirm all those rights and privileges that have been allowed by his Royal predecessors. With respect to yourself (though his Majesty is sensible that you stand in need of no such assurance), his Majesty will ever put the most favourable construction on your words and actions.The Lord Chancellor
"Here willing nations know their lawful Lord."1817l.l.1615141312 said, he rose to move their Lordships to agree to an humble Address to his Majesty, in reply to the gracious Speech which had been just read to the House—a Speech so frank, so affectionate and consolatory, that he
"Here willing nations know their lawful Lord."1817l.l.1615141312The Marquis of Bute
 seconded the Motion, but his Lordship's remarks were inaudible.Lord Monson
 put the question.The Lord Chancellor
19 said, it was not his intention to trespass long on their Lordships' time. There was one part of the gracious communication which the Sovereign had been pleased to make this day, which he was sure would be received by the country with heartfelt gratification —it was the recommendation, that the strictest economy should be pursued in every important branch of the public expenditure, and not only pursued, but that his Majesty was determined to enforce it. In the present state of this country it was by economy alone that we could restore peace and tranquillity, and give confidence to the agricultural population—amongst whom, notwithstanding what had fallen from the
19The Earl of Winchilsea
: I beg to correct the noble Lord—I said no such thing.The Marquis of Bute
22 said, he felt it his duty, from the first moment he came into the House, to present himself to its notice. He had yesterday attended at Maid-stone, and he should be sorry to enter into a controversy with his noble friend opposite (Winchilsea), such as he was compelled to enter into in the last Session of Parliament, nor should he be seduced then to discuss whether more distress prevailed in the last year than in the year 1822; but he would say, that the distress now prevailing was not in any degree comparable to that which existed last year. If that were so, why should there not have been more outrages, while the people were said to be starving in the severity of winter, than now, when we enjoyed what was undeniably a genial autumn? The fact was, that what had taken place on the other side of the Channel had sent forth many evil-disposed spirits. He pitied the wretches who caused fires and broke machinery; but, if misery and hardship were the cause of these outrages, their pressure was more severe in the last than in the present season; and he, therefore, attributed these outrages to the spirit now abroad. He did not mean to say that there was any individual concerned in these proceedings who meant anything against the Constitution of the country; but he believed, in that part of Kent where the noble Earl resided, they were the consequences of a prejudice against the use of machinery, and not of distress. He believed that there were parts of Kent, as there were parts of other counties, in distress; and in some parts of that county there was an ad ministration of the Poor-laws which was not wise. He did not suppose that so extensive an inquiry as was necessary could be had in a fortnight or three weeks; but he saw a spirit in the farmers, and he was sure it was in the gentry, which would induce every one to look to the management of their farms. He therefore thought, whether Parliament adopted any measures or not, that there would be a union of all classes to put down the outrages that prevailed. As to the conflagrations, he was sorry that the inhabitants of the county of Kent could be capable of devising or executing them; at the same time that
22The Marquis of Camden
2423 said, it was not his intention to take up more than a very short portion of their Lordships' time, but he was anxious to take this opportunity of expressing a hope that Parliament would no longer delay—that it would not put off until it might, perhaps, be too late— an inquiry into the state of the labouring poor. He hoped the subject would be taken up with a view to a fair inquiry He assured their Lordships that he said this, not in the spirit of faction, for it was admitted by the noble Marquis (the Lord-lieutenant of the county of Kent) that great distress did prevail in that county, though he had added that that distress was not so great in that particular county as it was last year. The noble Marquis seemed to think, that the outrages which existed in that county were not the result of the distress that prevailed. He (the Duke of Richmond) would not say what was the cause of those outrages; but whatever might be their origin, it could not be denied, that last Session the Tables of their Lordships' House were covered with petitions, complaining of the distresses of the labouring poor. The subject of those petitions their Lordships had not thought it necessary to take into consideration, and he believed that that circum-
2423The Duke of Richmond
25 said, he would detain their Lordships only a few moments. The state of the country had, in the course of the last Session, been several times the subject of discussion, and on these occasions, believing as he did that the distress which prevailed was only partial, he had deprecated any exaggerated statements respecting it, and had also opposed the motion for inquiry, on the ground that it would tend to no practical good. With respect to the nocturnal outrages which had since taken place in the county of Kent, he was of opinion that they ought to be put down by the strictest application of the law; and when that was done, he thought it would not be unbecoming their Lordships to make the experiment of an inquiry as to the cause of the distress, and the condition of the poor. He himself had been visited by some of those nocturnal depredators, and he agreed with his noble friend in believing that none of the nightly outrages that now disgraced the county of Kent were committed by the industrious working classes of that county. They were the work of, he believed, persons who did not belong to the county. He wished to take that opportunity of correcting a misstatement which had been made in one of the Kent news-papers, and which had been copied from that into most of the London papers. It was stated, that on the occasion when some of his property was burned, the peasantry looked on without any attempt to assist in extinguishing the flames, but that they rather seemed to enjoy the spectacle. Now, the very reverse was the fact. He had suffered only to a trifling extent; but so far were the
25The Earl of Darnley
26 said, that he had just come from that portion of the United Kingdom, to the condition of which allusion had been made in the Speech from
26The Duke of Leinster
28l.l.l.27 said, that the present moment was one of the most important at which a Parliament had met for many years, whether considered with relation to our foreign or domestic policy. There were dangers from within and without, and the best way to avert them was to look them boldly in the face. The Speech from the Throne informed them that this country continued on terms of peace and amity with the several Powers of Europe; but who were the Powers of Europe at present? He knew that the illustrious Prince who now sat on the Throne of France was strongly disposed to continue the relations of peace and amity with this country; but who knew whether affairs in that country might not take at turn which would oblige its Sovereign to adopt measures towards this country which he himself could not approve? As to Belgium, to which the Royal Speech had adverted, and which had been alluded to by the noble Marquis who moved the Address, were we not a party to treaties respecting that country, which might bring us into unpleasant collision with
28l.l.l.27Lord Farnham
44434241403938373635343332313029 spoke to the following effect:— I feel great satisfaction that I gave way to the two noble Lords who have preceded me, for I have heard, with much pleasure and full concurrence, what fell from the noble Duke behind me; and I heard also, with similar feelings, a considerable portion of what was delivered by the noble Lord who followed him, though differing from that noble Lord in a great many of those observations which he made while addressing himself to the more extended and general question, which the Speech from the Throne has raised for the consideration of your Lordships and the other branch of the Legislature. I entirely agree with the
44434241403938373635343332313029Earl Grey
535251504948474645 said, he was in hopes, judging from the first part of the noble Earl's Speech, that he should only have had to congratulate their Lordships on the sentiments which the noble Earl had delivered in commenting on his Majesty's speech, and what had fallen from the noble Lord and the noble Duke. The sentiments of the noble Earl did him the highest honour, and became the rank which he ought to hold in the country as a statesman. They did equal honour to his heart and head, and he (the Duke of Wellington) congratulated the House on their expression, at the same time that he was sorry he could not agree with what had fallen from the noble Earl upon all the points he had touched upon. The noble Earl ended his speech with some observations relative to Portugal, and he would commence by answering them. He begged the House to recollect how frequently his late Majesty had stated to Parliament the inconvenience felt in this country, in consequence of the interruption of our diplomatic relations with Portugal; how frequently his late Majesty had stated his wish to re-establish those relations; how anxiously he sought to reconcile the two branches of the House of Braganza; and how frequently, as he repeatedly told the
535251504948474645The Duke of Wellington
 acquainted their Lordships that his Majesty had returned the following Answer to their Address, which his Lordship read.The Lord Chancellor
199198197 after giving the above notice, went on to say, that being on his legs, he would take that opportunity of expressing the heartfelt gratification which he felt, and he was sure that he expressed the feelings of the great body of the community, at the honest, the eloquent appeal which had been made to the House the other evening, by a noble Earl, whom he did not then see in his place. (Earl Grey.) He sincerely hoped that the course of policy which that noble Earl laid down, both as to our foreign and domestic concerns, would meet the approbation of his Majesty's Government, and that it would have the good sense to adhere to the great principle of non-interference. An open, direct, and honest policy was most suitable to the honour of this country, most consistent with its interests, and most consistent with its character as the birthplace of liberty. In all that the noble Earl had said of our foreign policy, he cordially agreed. As to our domestic policy he must observe, that it was not by arming one part of the population against the other, that we could now ward off the danger which threatened us, or that the security of property and of the institutions of the country, could be maintained. If the people had grievances, and God knew they had — and if these grievances were not redressed, there would be no security for property, and their Lordships would live to see our excellent institutions overturned. The best and only security was to be found in doing ample justice to the people, and in relieving their distress, and for this purpose, an inquiry should be instituted into the condition of the great body of the agricultural labourers, who were loyal and faithful, but suffering very greatly. He could not restrain his astonishment at hearing the declaration made by the noble Duke the other evening, relating to Parliamentary Reform. The noble Duke thought our present legislature so perfect, that he stated—"that if he had to form a
199198197The Earl of Winchilsea
 had not, he believed, stated anything that the noble Duke had not said; at least he had no wish to misrepresent anything; that was not his intention, and it would only have been fair in the noble Duke had he stated in what manner he had misrepresented him. The noble Earl then moved, that their Lordships be summoned for Thursday next, when he should introduce the bill of which he had given notice.The Earl of Winchilsea
 complained of the noble Earl bringing forward such a series of remarks without any notice. It was not usual to make such attacks and such speeches without some intimation; neither was it usual for their Lordships to refer to what had been said in former debates. At least, too, if that were the case, what was referred to, ought to be stated accurately. The noble Earl had not represented correctly what had fallen from him. Such practices were not consistent with the usages of their Lordships' House, and he thought it would be much better if the noble Earl had adhered to the usual course of proceeding.The Duke of Wellington
247246 said, he rose, in pursuance of notice given by him the other evening, to move for a Copy of a Document which he thought might by some possibility throw further light on the connection of this country with Belgium. In the preamble to the treaty, signed by the Plenipotentiaries of the great Powers, parties to the formation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, he found reference made to a Pro-
247246The Marquis of Lansdown
248 having differed from the noble Earl (Earl Aber-
248The Marquis of Londonderry,
 admitted he was wrong in alluding to the noble Earl in his absence; but he would merely say now, that the noble Earl had no right to claim for himself, or his party, the name of being real Tories. The real Tories of the country were the supporters of Government. And the noble Earl's (Winchilsea's) party had no better title to that name than any other noble Lords. He (Lord Londonderry) had said more than he meant to say; but his feelings carried him away. It was impossible not to feel excited on such a subject, and he hoped that those who really have property, and who have interests at stake in the country, will stand by the Government in the crisis in which it is placed.The Marquis of Londonderry
 repeated his regret, that he had alluded to the noble Earl in his absence; and he thought the noble Duke ought to consider that sufficient.The Marquis of Londonderry
254 stated, that he conceived the present times were full of danger; and he saw no better means of meeting those dangers than for their Lordships cordially to unite among themselves and promote the great cause of reform. Unless that were promoted, and unless something were done to meet the wishes of the people, he doubted whether they would support the Government. He was happy to observe that the unpopularity which was provoking riots was only that of the Administration, and it was, in his opinion, a great misfortune that the affairs of the country were administered—by a great man certainly, but a man who was only great as a soldier. The people were sensible of the generous character of the Sovereign, but that did not extend its influence to the Administration. It was clear from what had been just stated by the noble Duke, that the present was not a time to trifle with the feelings of the
254The Earl of Shrewsbury
256255 meant to address the few observations he should offer to the House, exclusively to the extraordinary conduct of his Majesty's Ministers in the advice they had given. He had heard the explanation of the noble Duke with the greatest horror. The noble Duke said, he had waited with the greatest impatience for an opportunity to justify himself; and he hoped that the noble Duke would have been able to do away with the panic which he had caused, and
256255The Marquis of Clanricarde
263262 found the second explanation of the noble Duke not more satisfactory than the first. Unless the Government had previously made inquiries (and it did not seem that the Government had made inquiries), he did not see how it could advise his Majesty to come to such a determination. The noble Duke said, he had received anonymous letters; but he had not informed their Lordships that he made any inquiries into the truth of their contents. It appeared that the Court of Aldermen, which had made inquiries, had come to a different conclusion from that adopted by the noble Duke. The consequences of such a step as that recom-
263262The Earl of Radnor
264 said, the language used, and the opinions expressed by some of the noble Lords on the other side, were certainly very different from what he was accustomed to hear from them when they sat on his (the Ministerial) side of the House, and he had the honour of calling them his noble friends. They said, in substance, that the reasons of the noble Duke for the advice which he gave to his Majesty to abstain from giving occasion to tumult and disturbance, was far from being well grounded or justified by the circumstances. He would not take up the time of the House in recapitulating the reasons of the noble Duke, as he himself had so well stated them; but the whole might be comprised in a sentence. The reason assigned by the noble Duke was, that he saw in the circumstance of his Majesty's joining the City procession, a risk of disturbance, of riot, and of confusion—a risk to property—and a risk of bloodshed. He knew no man better able than the noble Duke to appreciate such a risk, or more able effectually to guard against it, if strong measures should be necessary for that purpose. But he highly approved and commended the course which the noble Duke had deemed it prudent to adopt on this occasion. He had heard some, or at least one, of the noble Lords opposite lay great weight on what he called the unpopularity of the noble Duke. He was not on terms of very great intimacy or confidence with the noble Lord, and therefore might not be aware of all the reasons which the noble Lord might have for his conclusion, that the noble Duke was unpopular. But what was the unpopularity? That it had gone to a very considerable extent he could scarcely believe, because it was not very long since he had heard the contrary with his own ears. He would ask, who could be more popular than the noble Duke, a few months ago, during the review of the troops in Hyde Park? But, at all events, as to any popularity worth having, that popularity would attend the man who, although he had no personal fear, yet did what he conscientiously considered to be his duty to his country and his Sovereign, at the risk of losing, for the moment, popularity of another description.
264The Marquis of Bute
250 did not think it necessary to say much in reply to the noble Marquis, after he had admitted, that his feelings carried him away; but he confessed, that he could not avoid pointing out the unjustifiable course the noble Marquis was pursuing in alluding to the opinions of the noble Earl in his absence, opinions which would not bear the construction put on them by the noble Marquis; for he, the noble Earl, alluded to, had merely spoken of his opinions as those of an individual. He had also felt it necessary to interrupt the noble Marquis, because he was adopting the unparliamentary course of alluding to what passed in the debate on a former occasion. Perceiving how firm an adherent and supporter of the Government the noble Marquis had proved himself that night, and recollecting the eloquence he had displayed throughout the whole of last Session against the same Government, on the subject of the boundaries of Greece, he (the Duke of Richmond) would say, with perfect courtesy, to the noble Marquis, that he should not have thought it worth his while to reply to the speech he had just heard, was it not that the noble Marquis had thought proper to call on all those who really possessed property to rally round the Throne and the Government. He must say, in answer to that call, that the Government, to deserve support, should take care, by its acts and expressions, to raise no needless alarm among the people of England. He believed, when the hour of danger came, that the people would rally round the Throne; but he would say also, that the only way for the Throne and the Government to make that rally perfectly
250The Duke of Richmond
 rose to order. The noble Marquis was alluding to the statements of a noble Lord not present, and had mistaken he believed the expression of the noble EarlThe Duke of Richmond
260259258257 addressed their Lordships somewhat as follows:—I understand, my Lords, with satisfaction, from the answer of the noble Earl (Aberdeen), that the protocol contains no sensible variations from the general treaty, or the particular conditions. So far every thing is satisfactory. The noble Earl, too, has signified his intention of laying the protocol before your Lordships, which will be of some interest to this part of the subject. I cannot, however, refrain from saying, after hearing what I have this night heard, relative to those treaties, that what fell from the noble Duke on a former occasion gave me considerable surprise, and I must repeat the conviction which I formerly mentioned—a conviction which my noble friend has already expressed much better than I can—a conviction, my Lords, that by those treaties no obligation whatever is imposed on the country; we have contracted no engagement whatever to interfere with the internal affairs of the government of the Netherlands. All interference on that subject is left by these treaties to be determined by the usual considerations, and by what of policy and expediency is due to an independent nation. We are not bound to interfere by any obligation whatever. If we are not so bound, I repeat, my Lords, with my noble friend, that, in my opinion, sound policy, justice, and respect for the independence of other people, as well as regard for the interest of this country, enjoin us on the present occasion not to interfere with the internal affairs of Belgium. As this is my opinion, I cannot avoid feeling surprise at what was stated by the noble Earl, that the Government only contemplated amicable interference, such as would be bene-
260259258257Earl Grey
 had no objection to produce the document which the noble Marquis required, but he felt it necessary to repeat his assertion, that neither in it nor in any other was there to be found any arrangement or obligation different from that which was to be found expressed in the eight articles of the treaty of Vienna. He would not enter into the question of interference as commented on by the noble Marquis, except for the purpose of observing, that the Government contemplated no interference at the present moment but an amicable one, although he did not put such a construction on the treaty as to say that no events could take place which would warrant the intervention of England. The interests of this country were at all times so intimately connected with those of the Netherlands, that it was impossible for the Government to look with indifference at the situation in which they were placed. He had already stated, most distinctly, that the object of all interferences on the part of England were amicable, and such as might be expected from a State situated as it was with regard to the Netherlands; and he now repeated, that no other description of interference was contemplated.The Earl of Aberdeen
261 in explanation, was understood to apologize for not having gone further into the subject. He had, however, referred to other letters besides that from the Lord Mayor. Their Lordships would recollect, that in the letter of the Lord Mayor it was stated that he could not depend on the civil power for preserving peace, though all proper measures had been adopted. The information he had received from a variety of quarters convinced him that it was intended to attack the police. He had been asked if his Majesty could not proceed to every part of the town without being protected by the police? His Majesty certainly could; but in this case his Majesty was not to proceed alone. There was to be a procession, which required that the streets should be kept clear for fourteen or sixteen hours out of the twenty-four. A great number of persons would be collected in one spot, and if an attack were made on the police, it would be necessary, for the safety of their lives, to call in the interference of the military. He wished to
261The Duke of Wellington,
253252"From the station of Lord Mayor, to which I have been elected, numberless communications are made to me, both personally and by letter, in reference to the 9th, and it is on that account I take the liberty of addressing your Grace. Although the feelings of all the respectable citizens of London are decidedly loyal, yet it cannot but be known there are, both in London as well as the country, a set of desperate and abandoned characters who are anxious to avail themselves of any circumstance to create tumult and confusion, while all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty on the occasion. From what I learn, it is the intention of some of the desperate characters alluded to, to take the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's person on your approach to the Hall. Every exertion on my part shall be used to make the best possible arrangement in the City; but should any sudden and violent attack be made in one quarter, any civil force alone might not be sufficiently effectual, and I should not be doing my duty, after what I have heard, did I not take the liberty of suggesting to your Grace the propriety of your coming strongly and sufficiently guarded. I probably may be considered giving you needless trouble, but the respect which I, as well as every person who really wishes the welfare of the country, must have for your Grace, and the gratitude we owe you, has induced me to adopt this course."251;—Before I proceed to address myself to the subject
253252"From the station of Lord Mayor, to which I have been elected, numberless communications are made to me, both personally and by letter, in reference to the 9th, and it is on that account I take the liberty of addressing your Grace. Although the feelings of all the respectable citizens of London are decidedly loyal, yet it cannot but be known there are, both in London as well as the country, a set of desperate and abandoned characters who are anxious to avail themselves of any circumstance to create tumult and confusion, while all of any respectability in the City are vying with each other to testify their loyalty on the occasion. From what I learn, it is the intention of some of the desperate characters alluded to, to take the opportunity of making an attack on your Grace's person on your approach to the Hall. Every exertion on my part shall be used to make the best possible arrangement in the City; but should any sudden and violent attack be made in one quarter, any civil force alone might not be sufficiently effectual, and I should not be doing my duty, after what I have heard, did I not take the liberty of suggesting to your Grace the propriety of your coming strongly and sufficiently guarded. I probably may be considered giving you needless trouble, but the respect which I, as well as every person who really wishes the welfare of the country, must have for your Grace, and the gratitude we owe you, has induced me to adopt this course."251The Duke of Wellington
317 presented a Petition from the Lead-miners of Alston, a district of Cumberland, complaining of Distress, arising from the present state of the law relative to the importation of lead, and praying for relief. The noble Marquis expressed a hope that Government would pay attention to the allegations of the present petitioners, similar to that with which they had already honoured petitions of a like nature presented by him in the course of last Session. He was convinced that the condition of the manufacturers
317The Marquis of Cleveland
 observed, upon the distress sustained by those who were concerned in the iron and copper mines also, which he attributed to the importation of metal from South America. In 1825 companies had been formed to work the mines of that country with English capital, and bring the ore into competition, in the European market, with that raised in England. This was a serious injury to the extensive mining interests of this country. Application had been made to the noble Duke for protection, but he had afforded none to the mining interest. It was to be hoped, however, that he would re-consider this subject, and listen to the prayers of the miners.The Earl of Falmouth
 said, he had last Session come to the conclusion, that he should do much more injury to British interests by interfering, than by abstaining from interference. He could only repeat the assurance which he had already given the noble Marquis, that he would not be wanting, during the ensuing year, in attention to this, or to any other subject connected with the welfare of the country.The Duke of Wellington
366 wished to ask the noble Duke opposite (Wellington), one or two questions arising put of the expressions which fell from the noble Duke in the Debate on Monday evening. The noble Duke then stated, that he took the determination of advising his Majesty not to visit the City on other grounds and on other information, some of it anonymous, and some of it authenticated, than that he had obtained from the communication of the Lord Mayor, He certainly, at that time,
366The Earl of Radnor
369I know no more than the Lord Mayor.""Gentlemen, I do declare, said, that the noble Earl (Radnor) had required further information, and the answer of the noble Duke left their Lordships just as much in the dark as ever they were. The noble Duke could affirm, no less poetically than truly,
369I know no more than the Lord Mayor.""Gentlemen, I do declare,Lord King
 thought the House should not take the bare assertion of the noble Duke, that he possessed further and better information with respect to intentions to disturb the public peace, as being sufficient to justify the Government in giving advice to his Majesty to send a letter which was very little else than an insult to the inhabitants of the City of London. He said, at once, that it was not the King, but the Duke of Wellington, that was likely to receive insult; and what necessity was there that his Grace should accompany his Majesty on such an occasion? Where, too, was the necessity of calling in the new police, which was said to be so much disliked? When the Lord High Admiral visited the City there was no disturbance. There would have been none if the King had visited the City, and if any was apprehended, why could not the King be accompanied by the household troops? For what other purpose was that force kept up? He had visited the City during Tuesday night, and walked through the crowd, and he confessed he saw no disturbance or tendency towards disturbance, except where the new police were stationed. Of disloyalty to the Sovereign, at all events, no trace was to be found at any period of the tumults which he had seen or heard of in any part of the metropolis.The Marquis of Clanricarde
370 said, he for one must tell the noble Marquis that he gave all approbation and applause to what the Government had done, with reference to the night alluded to. The noble Marquis and others had spoken of the popularity of the King. No man doubted that the King was popular, and that he deserved to be so; but the proceeding which the noble Marquis found fault with had no reference to his Majesty's popularity. The real question was this. Tumult and confusion were expected, and the Government was driven to the necessity of em-
370Lord Wharncliffe
 presented a similar Petition from the lessees, owners, and others connected with the Coal Mines in the vicinity of the Tyne. The petitioners prayed inquiry, and suggested the great benefits which might now be secured to this country if the duties were removed. It was numerously signed, and ought to have weight with the Government. Independent of the injustice of allowing coals to be transmitted by rail-roads free of duty, while the shipping interests were oppressed with a heavy impost, and the commerce of the country materially injured, the noble Marquis pressed on the attention of the House the propriety of endeavouring to secure the custom of those countries which had hitherto been supplied with coals from Belgium, and were now deprived, by the state of that part of the dominions of the king of the Netherlands, of their usual supply. He also alluded to the possibility of increasing the demand from Ireland; and although it was to be lamented that any diminution of the Revenue should take place at a time when the state of Europe rendered it probable that England would require an increase of her expenditure, still he thought the national benefits would be more than commensurate to the loss.The Marquis of Londonderry
371 was in favour of the re-
371Lord Teynham
s.s.d.,s.d.s.l.l.375374 did not mean to enter fully into the discussion of the Bill then submitted to their Lordships; but he could not forbear to make a few observations. He must bear his testimony to the correctness of the picture drawn by the noble Earl of the evil consequences of the Poor-laws on the peasantry. If the noble Earl could accomplish the objects he had at heart, he would confer great advantages on the country: but he was afraid the Bill would not answer the noble Earl's expectations. To one part of it he was friendly, to the other part he was not friendly; and he should not give it his support. It was certainly the abuses of the Poor-laws which had demoralized the labourers, had reduced them to the state of vagabonds, and had disqualified them to raise themselves by their own exertions out of their present abject state. According to the present mode of administering those laws, the labourer who worked much received little; and he who worked little received much. It was not possible for human ingenuity to devise any scheme more
s.s.d.,s.d.s.l.l.375374Lord Suffield
376 differed from the noble Lord, in thinking that the Poor-laws were of themselves good, but that the administration of them had been perverted. He thought the subject required investigation, and it was his intention to give notice of a Motion for a committee to inquire into the Poor-laws, after the recess. That, he thought, was necessary. If they did not find employment for the labourers, it would not be possible to prevent the demoralization of the people. He could not agree, however, to the opinion, that the want of employment arose from over-population. He could not agree to any plan for transporting the agricultural labourers, whom, notwithstanding their demoraliza-
376The Marquis of Salisbury
 explained, that he did not attribute the evils of want of employment to the Poor-laws themselves, but to the mal-administration of them. At the same time it should be remembered, that when they were passed, the Justices had the power to fix the rate of wages.Lord Suffield
s. wished to make a few observations, because he had long studied the Poor-laws, and was as well acquainted with them as any man in England. He contended that the 43rd of Elizabeth was a most benevolent and wise law, intended, like all her laws, to promote the happiness of her people. The noble Lord had stated that taxation had had no influence on the Poor-laws: he thought quite differently. It was since the American war, when taxation had increased so much, that the condition of the agricultural labourer was deteriorated, and he conceived that deterioration had been mainly caused by two measures of finance. These two measures were, the duties on hops and the duties on malt, which had prevented the poor man from brewing his own beer, and driven him from his cottage. When he had ceased to be a brewer he had ceased also to be a baker, and then had to go to the shop and the ale-house for all his food and drink. He had heard that the farmers around Battle, and that the farmers in several parts of Kent, had agreed to give their labourers 15s.Lord Teynham
378377 rose, not to discuss the Bill of his noble friend, because he had not yet heard it read, but to deny the statement of the noble Lord who had just taken his seat. The noble Lord was not authorised to make that statement, as he was sure that he could not prove it. He did not deny that the farmers of Kent and Sussex might have agreed to
378377The Duke of Richmond
 took all that the noble Duke had said in good part, as he was sure that the noble Duke could never mean to say anything that was not parliamentary. But still he must persist in the opinion which he had given—which was, that the yeomanry of those counties had raised their wages, not out of choice, but compulsion. He had received a letter to that effect from a most respectable individual, well acquainted with the circumstances, in which it was stated, that the farmers had been forced to promise fifteen shillings a week, although they could not pay it, and he was ready to produce that individual at the Bar if required to do so.Lord Teynham
380379 thought the question one of deep concern to the country, and any suggestion, coming from any quarter, to ameliorate the condition of the labouring classes, would not fail to interest the feelings, and excite the sympathy of their Lordships. He agreed with those who thought that distress was not universally prevalent. He could say, at least, that the people who lived in the quarter where he resided were in as good circumstances as they had been for the last thirty years. Having himself a good deal of land in his own hands, he had laid his books before him, and compared the remuneration which the labourers received, and the prices which they paid for provisions; and he could take upon himself to say, that at no time for these last thirty years were they in better circumstances. He mentioned this in order to shew that the Poor-laws themselves were not the cause of the evils: even the abuse of the Poor-laws in the administration of them was rather symptomatic of the evil, than its cause. The real cause of the evil lay deeper; and he agreed with the noble Lord near him (Suffield)who found it in the superabundance of labour above the demand—in other words, the surplus of unemployed labourers. That prevailed to a most lamentable extent in Ireland, and from Ireland it spread into this country. If, then, they intended to apply an effectual remedy, they must go to the root of the evil. Unless they did this, they did nothing; for the noxious weed of poverty would burst through every regulation of a different description. The
380379Lord Stourton
 was decidedly opposed to a repeal of the Union, for a repeal of the Union would lead to a separation of the two countries, and that would lead to the destruction of both. The salvation of both depended on their remaining united. He agreed that the agitation in Ireland had been a serious obstacle to the investing of British capital in that country; for that required tranquillity, and could not be established in the midst of the agitation, which was now unhappily raised by men who had other objects in view than the prosperity of Ireland. He himself knew instances in which preparations had been made, immediately after passing the Relief Bill for investing capital in Ireland, and these preparations had been suspended in consequence of these agitations.Lord Carbery
381 was also opposed to the dissolution of the union between the two countries. No man had more ardently opposed the Union at the time it was first brought forward, than he had, but he did not feel himself called upon to say whether if he were placed in the same circumstances again, he would have acted in the same manner. As matters now stood, however, he was fully persuaded that the dissolution of the Union would be attended with the destruction of both countries. The scenes at Clare and Waterford had shown what kind of legislators Ireland would have, if the Union were dissolved. When the Speaker of the Irish House of
381Viscount Gort
 was desirous of explaining, as this point seemed misunderstood, that his Bill applied only to those parishes where there were able-bodied, unemployed labourers, and not to any others. He was persuaded, that the yeomanry neither of Kent nor Sussex to whom allusion had been made, had done any-thing improper.The Earl of Winchilsea
382 assured the noble Lords who pressed this matter upon the attention of Government, that the Government had not been inattentive to the subject. The real truth was, that the administration of the Poor-laws was so various in different places, that it was impossible to find out where the evil lay, or to prepare any one measure which would apply to all, for what would answer in one place would not. answer in another. A noble Duke had said, that the Ministers knew nothing about the administration of the Poor-laws; and it was true that they could not well know how they were administered in every parish, when the modes of administration were so exceedingly various. But the variety of these modes proved how very difficult it must be to find out a general remedy. He agreed in what had been stated respecting the consequences of the resort of the superabundant unemployed Irish to this country; but there again it was extremely difficult to find a remedy. The noble Lord opposite (Suffield) had himself suggested two remedies, or plans, which he thought would be attended with advantage in Norfolk; but it did not follow that what would be a beneficial plan in Norfolk would answer in Kent and Sussex. The Government, however, felt every disposition to do all that lay in its power to
382The Duke of Wellington
 was glad to find it now admitted on all sides, that his motion of last year was not a factious one.The Duke of Richmond
 felt himself bound to say, that he had heard from a person of considerable influence in the Government, that if the noble Duke's Motion had been confined to an inquiry into the state of the Poor-laws, he would not have opposed it.The Marquis of Salisbury
: Then the Government ought to have moved as an amendment, that the latter part should be left out.The Duke of Richmond
l.l.l.l. presented a Petition from the Parishes of Kilcoman and Robin, Ireland, praying an alteration of the method of distributing: the funds placed by Parliament at the disposal of the Kildare-street Society in Dublin. The noble Marquis supported the prayer of the petition, and observed, that unless Government interfered, and adopted some of the suggestions which had been made to them relative to the future management of the funds of the Society, and the system of education, the object of those who wished to give education to the Irish people, would be completely frustrated. The propriety of the management of the funds of the Society had been much questioned before he left the Government of Ireland; and by a compromise between the contending parties it was agreed, that 25,000l.l.l.l.The Marquis of Anglesea
422 said, that he also had petitions to present on the same subject, and he hoped, before any money was wasted, that the matter would be thoroughly investigated. He had great hopes that abuses would speedily be
422The Marquis of Clanricarde
 said, it was the opinion of almost all those who had given their attention to subjects of this nature, that no good could be produced by the grants, unless Government took the whole management and application of the funds into its own hands. If their Lordships wished to understand the full extent of the abuses of the present system, and the best method of remedying them, they could obtain much valuable information, and would receive some excellent suggestions, from the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons, which sat towards the end of the last Session to inquire into the state of the poor in Ireland.The Marquis of Lansdown
 defended the conduct of the Kildare-street Society, and denied that the expenditure alluded to by the noble Marquis (Anglesea) was either contrary to the powers of the Society, or prejudicial to the objects which it was called on to accomplish.Lord Carbery
 also defended the Society. He had held the situation of President, and he could say with great confidence, that the intentions of its members were always pure, and that they had devoted their funds according to the best of their judgment, to promote education among the poorer classes of all religious persuasions.The Marquis of Downshire
 had not intended to impute anything like fraud to those who disposed of the grant to the Society. All he wished for was inquiry; because he was satisfied, that if the Society pursued the present system, and compelled the Catholic children to read the Bible, the objects of the Legislature would be continually defeated, and the money thrown away.The Marquis of Anglesea
 was much in favour of religious instruction for the poor, but he had some doubts whether the grants to the Kildare-street Society really promoted that object. He was perfectly convinced of the truth of the noble Marquis's statement, but he thought the whole subject required investigation.The Earl of Darnley
 was obliged to the noble Duke for the opportunity he had given him of explaining the meaning of what had fallen from him on a former evening. It was very far from his intention to excite the people to violence. The meaning of what he said was this—that in consequence of what had happened in Sussex and elsewhere, the farmers had felt it to be right to raise the rate of wages; but he was at the same time fully prepared to admit, that it was necessary to put down every attempt at intimidation, and that the labourers must not be led to expect that they could obtain any increased rate of remuneration for their services, without the full consent of their employers. What he said on the former occasion was merely this—that the labourers had demanded a higher rate of wages, and that the farmers thought it prudent to comply.Lord Teynham
 was happy to hear the language of the noble Duke with relation to the attempts of the labourers against their employers. He thought that such declarations on that subject would do good, and that it was highly necessary the labourers should know that any attempt at intimidation was not approved of either by the Parliament or the country at large. He hoped that the opinions of Parliament would be made known, and that it would be understood every where, that no man of either House approved of such a system Any attempt to raise the wages of the labourer under such circumstances must fail, because the amount was much greater than the farmer at present could afford to pay.Marquis Camden
s.d.s.d.s.s. said, the disturbances in Kent could not have arisen from the lowness of the rate of wages, as it was a singular fact, that the wages of labour were higher in the disturbed district than in any other place of the South. He believed the disturbances did not arise from an inadequate rate of wages, but from the superabundance of labourers, and the want of employment. Throughout that part of Kent, the wages of an able-bodied man were 2s.d.s.d.s.s.The Earl of Darnley
497d.496 was a resident in, and a member of, the vestry of the parish of St. George, to which the noble Baron had just alluded, and therefore trusted he might be permitted to say a few words with reference to the subject of the petition before their Lordships. Knowing that the conduct of the new police was to be touched upon by the noble Baron on the present occasion, he had instituted an inquiry into it, so far at least as his own parish was concerned; and the result of his inquiry was, that he differed altogether from the allegations of the petitioners, and from the views of the noble Baron concerning that body. He thought it necessary to state his opinion on this point, the
497d.496Lord Suffield
d.d.499l.l498 felt himself relieved from the necessity of making a lengthened speech by the judicious observations of the noble Lord who had just addressed the House. With respect to the point last touched upon by him— namely, the interference with such of the new police as had votes at Norwich, by the inspectors, — e could not then take it upon him to give it officially a flat contradiction. All that he could do was, to express, as an individual having no specific knowledge of the circumstances one way or the other, his strong belief that such was not the fact— that was wholly unfounded. Indeed, his belief of this had the strength of a conviction; for though not able to say positively that no order at all like to that quoted by the noble Baron (Durham) opposite had been issued, he understood, from the very best authority on the subject, that such of the new police as had votes were permitted to give them as they pleased, — and did vote for whom they pleased, without any interference on the part of their office. With respect to the allegation, that crime had increased in the parish of St. Mary, Newington, he begged leave to remind the noble Baron, that the matter had been inquired into in the proper quarter, and that it appeared that the efficiency of the new police had been, ' in the first instance, counteracted by circumstances which had since been remedied; and that some of the police, who had been charged with neglect of duty in that district, had been removed from the
d.d.499l.l498The Earl of Rosslyn
l.l. had forgotten to touch upon two points which bore closely upon the question before their Lordships. One was, that in one of the parishes most clamourous against the cost of the new police establishment, he had been informed that the parish, for a couple of years, had been loaded with a debt, the onus and odium of which those who had contracted it thought the present a favourable opportunity of transferring to the new police from themselves. OIL a future day he would enter into the particulars of the transaction. The other point had been alluded to by the noble Earl who had just addressed the house— namely, the fact that the aggregate cost of the whole metropolitan police did not much exceed that of the nightly-watch, though it included ten or twelve districts to which that worshipful body's superintendence never in any way extended. The whole expense of the metropolitan police was 208,000l.l.Lord Suffield
 replied, that Ministers had then no intention to submit any proposition to Parliament with a view to either repealing or amending the Act alluded to by that noble Baron.The Earl of Rosslyn
509508507506505504503502501 addressed their Lordships to the following effect:—My Lords, I rise in consequence of the notice which I gave last week, in order to submit to your Lordships' judgment the measure which his Majesty's Ministers have prepared, in consequence of his Majesty's recommendation in his most gracious Speech from the Throne, for the purpose of providing for the Administration of the Government of the country, in the event of the demise of his Majesty, before the successor to the Crown shall have arrived at years of maturity. My Lords, I do not intend on this occasion to enter into any detailed consideration of the measure. At present, I will confine myself to stating the principles on which his Majesty's Ministers have proceeded in framing the Bill which I hold in my hand, and to describe the outline of its provisions. In the first place, my Lords, I must observe, that in framing this Bill his Majesty's Ministers have not thought it necessary to provide for every possible contingency that may occur. The principle by which they have been governed is this:—Having, in the first place, considered what were the various exigencies that might arise, the various periods at which those exigencies might arise, and the means which would exist of legislating for any of those exigencies at any of those periods, his Majesty's Ministers, for those cases in which it appeared to them that it would be difficult or inconvenient to legislate on their occurrence, have proposed to legislate on the present occasion. On the contrary, my Lords, whenever it appeared to them that, on the occurrence of any of the events under consideration, an opportunity would be afforded for legislating with no more difficulty or inconvenience than at the present moment, they have
509508507506505504503502501The Lord Chancellor
500 was enabled, from his own experience in the King's Bench, to declare that there were cases in which property had been recovered since the establishment of
500Lord Tenterden
 wished to know from his Majesty's Ministers, whether they intended to move for a repeal of the Metropolitan, Police Act with a view to its amendment.Lord Durham
495ll494d.ll, pursuant to notice, begged leave to present to their Lordships a petition from the parish of St. Mary, Newington, relating to the Metropolitan Police system. The petitioners complained, that under the 10th of his late Majesty, they were subjected to the new police establishment without their consent, and contrary to their wishes; and that, although the expense had been increased one-fourth, the protection to property was less efficient than under their own nightly-watch system, as was shown by an increased number of burglaries since the extension to their parish of the new system; and they prayed, either that the Act under which the metropolitan police was established should be repealed, or that the parish of St. Mary should be exempted from its provisions. The noble Lord said, he had inquired into the allegations of the petition, and found that in the six months preceding the establishment of the new police in this parish, the number of burglaries was 128, while the number in the six months which followed that establishment was 145. Then, as to the expense, he found that the charge of the nightly watch amounted to 3,000495ll494d.ll Lord Durham
 said, he could not allow that opportunity to pass by without expressing his feeling that the House and the country were deeply indebted to the noble Lord for the attention he had bestowed on a question of so much importance, and still more for the able and eloquent manner in which he had brought it under their consideration, stating the grounds on which he relied for their concurrence. He should stand justly chargeable with most unpardonable vanity, if, after the grave and weighty consideration which the noble Lord had bestowed on every part of the question, he should now presume to express any difference of opinion without maturely weighing and examining all the provisions of the Bill. One thing, however, he might say now, and that was, that on the question of the law, as it applied to the cases stated by the noble Lord, He (Lord Eldon) fully agreed with him. All the points connected with the law of the case had been so fully and ably stated by the noble and learned Lord, that he had very little to say; but he would observe, that it was the interest of all on whom the settlement of this important question, depended to take care that there should be perfect unanimity on all that was said and done connected with it. Under that persuasion he was confident that advice, from whatever quarter, would be well received and conscientiously acted upon. He should, for the present, content himself with expressing again his concurrence in all that had been said of the law of the case, and take a few days for deliberation before he offered any opinion on the details.The Earl of Eldon
 wished to know from the noble Earl opposite, whether it was true that he had bestowed the appointment of Clerk to the Privy Council, vacant by the sudden death of Mr. Buller, on any individual. If rightly informed, though he was unwilling to believe the report, the vacancy had been filled up by the noble Earl within twenty-four hours of its occurrence —a haste, he thought, not becoming with a patent office of so much emolument.Earl Grosvenor
559 said:—"My Lords, I deem it my duty to inform your Lordships, that in consequence of what occurred last night in the other House of Parliament, I felt it right to wait this morning on the King, and tender his Majesty the resignation of the office which I hold; that his Majesty has been pleased to accept of my resignation,
559The Duke of Wellington
 moved the second reading of the Bills which he had had the honour on a recent evening to lay on their Lordships' Table. The object of those Bills
was, to carry into effect some of the recommendations in the Report of the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into the means of improving the Administration of Justice in the Courts of Common Law. He did not, however, profess to comprehend in his measures all the recommendations of the Commissioners. Of the expediency and practicability of some of them he entertained considerable doubt. He was sure that he should meet with the entire concurrence of their Lordships, when he said that it was a subject which required the most deliberate consideration. The experience of his whole life had confirmed him in that opinion. He had accordingly bestowed all the consideration in his power upon the Bills on their Lordships' Table; and he had availed himself of the advice and suggestions of many learned friends. From his noble and learned friend on the Woolsack, and from several learned members of the committee, he had received essential assistance. He stated this in order to shew their Lordships that the propositions which he was submitting to them had not been hastily concocted. The Bills were five in number, and were entitled—The Judgment and Execution Bill, The Interpleaded Bill, The Prohibition and Mandamus Bill, The Arbitration Bill, and The Witness Examination Bill. The noble and learned Lord moved the second reading of the first Bill, and explained that the object of it was, to procure speedy judgment in execution, leaving it to the discretion of the Judge to stay the judgment in execution if he thought fit.Lord Tenterden
 said, that he did not rise to oppose the second reading of his noble and learned friend's Bills. On the contrary, he thought that, as far as they went, they were calculated to do much good. Undoubtedly caution was necessary; but he had no hesitation in saying, that, in his opinion, much more might be done with a view to diminish the present expensive and dilatory character of the law.Lord Wynford
 admitted, that further improvements were necessary, but thought that they could not be made with too much caution.Lord Tenterden
573 then severally moved the second reading of the other bills, explaining that the object of the Interpleader Bill was, to give a party, sued at law by two parties for that in which he had
573Lord Tenterden
 of Salisbury having in the early part of the afternoon postponed his motion for the appointment of a Committee on the Poor-laws, as soon as the usual hour (five o'clock) for transacting public business arrived,The Marquis
, after observing that it was not usual in that House to transact public business before five o'clock, declared his acquiescence in the postponement of the motion of the noble Marquis. He thought that nothing could be more improper or more indecorous than to hamper a Ministry, so lately formed, by the immediate introduction of any subject surrounded with so many difficulties as was that of his noble friend; but as, at the same time, it happened to be a motion of such importance that all others sank into insignificance beside it, he trusted the noble Marquis would pledge himself, in all cases, and under all circumstances, to bring forward his motion for the Committee on Monday next.Lord Suffield
 apologised for having given the notice of postponement so early. He stated, it was his firm intention to bring forward his motion on the day he had named, (Monday next) and he added, that he hoped for the assistance and support of the Government.The Marquis of Salisbury
605, in presenting a Petition from Glasgow, praying for Parliamentary Reform, was understood to state that he was anxious to say a few words to their Lordships. He had been intrusted with several petitions, which he was accidentally prevented from presenting on a former evening, by the speech of the noble and learned Lord then on the Woolsack, respecting the introduction of the Regency Bill; and he trusted that even now, after having been raised to office, he might stand excused in presenting petitions, which expressed an anxiety more or less strong for Parliamentary Reform, if he stated the terms on which he would have previously promoted this measure. There was no noble Lord then present who could be more desirous than he was to preserve our settled institutions; but with respect to these petitions, he was bound to state, that so far he agreed with the sentiments they professed, as to be of opinion that some amendment was necessary in the representation of the people of this country; and he trusted that when they were called to the consideration of this most important and anxious subject, they would take care that no supposed amendment should be made for the sake of change, but that the change made should be, in fact, a substantial improvement. He felt that in stating that some amendment in the representation was necessary, he was borne out by the present condition of the constituency of the country. When he looked to the great interests—commercial and manufacturing, consisting as they did of large bodies of well-informed and enlightened persons, which had been called into existence by the prosperity of the country, by the increased diffusion of wealth, and by the progress of science and discovery—when
605The Marquis of Lansdown
613 was understood to declare his conviction, that Parliamentary Reform was not merely expedient, but the only measure which could ensure the salvation of the country. He was certain that if the speech which the noble Marquis had just made on that subject, accompanied as it had been by the commentary of the noble Earl, went forth to the country, it would create in every quarter consternation and dismay. The noble Earl had expressed the dismay which he felt at what he called the fanciful and the extreme plans of reform which were abroad. It was not the first time that he had heard such expressions fall from the noble Earl. He did not quarrel with the noble Earl for using them, but he must lament that the noble Earl, occupying so prominent a situation as he now did in his Majesty's councils, should have dealt in such general declarations, and should have publicly asserted, that it was impossible for Government to pledge itself to any specific plan of reform. If he understood the noble Marquis correctly,— and he was not sure that he did,—the noble Marquis's plan of reform was, to grant the elective franchise to some large towns and to preserve the least defensible part of the present system, the small and decayed boroughs. Now, if the noble Earl, in speaking of his intention to adopt no system of reform which should not pay due respect to the settled institutions of the country, meant, like the noble Marquis to preserve the smaller boroughs, he would repeat his former assertion, that the declaration of these two Ministers would spread consternation and dismay from one end of the kingdom to the other. He could tell them that such a system of reform would be rejected as insufficient by the whole country. He hoped that he had misunderstood the noble Earl, and he hoped he had, for it was his firm conviction that nothing but Parliamentary Reform on a wide basis, a basis
613The Earl of Radnor
614 also defended himself from having limited the proposed Reform to giving Representatives to the large towns. He was convinced that he consulted the public interests by abstaining altogether from entering into
614The Marquis of Lansdown
No, no. would not have uttered one word of detail on the subject of reform, had not the noble Earl and the noble Marquis who had just spoken, themselves led the way, by a statement of their views on that most important subject. The noble Marquis, for example, had intimated the intention of Ministers to propose a plan for enfranchising the large towns ["No, no.The Earl of Radnor
618617616 could not but regret that Ministers had given notice of a most important measure, on a subject in which the public felt a deep interest, without being at the same time prepared to enter into a detailed statement of the scope and object of their plan, as great inconvenience, and, he feared, great misconception would be the consequence. The whole of the intentions of the noble Earl on this important subject could be gathered only by vague surmise, and he feared that each heated imagination would put its own interpretation on his words. He was as disconnected with the new as with the late Administration, and should be determined in his votes by the character and tendency of the measures proposed, apart from other considerations. Their Lordships could not now delay or postpone taking the question of reform into consideration, and a tremendous question it was, without apprehending the most fearful consequences. He thought, and he always had thought some measure of reform necessary, and that the recent declaration of a noble Duke
618617616The Earl of Carnarvon
 begged the noble Earl to understand, that his remarks wore not meant to apply to his speech, but to what had fallen on the subject of distress and reform from a noble Earl (Radnor) near him.The Earl of Carnarvon
 presented a similar Petition from Cupar. Laid on the Table.The Marquis of Lansdown
: I am surprised at the manner in which the noble Earl has received what I said. I stated, that I think the question of reform should be taken into consideration; and that I had the permission of his Majesty to bring before him, at a proper time, a plan for reforming the representation. What I said was, that looking with apprehension to the wild and fanciful theories which I regretted were too much promulgated—but feeling also that the defects which had been occasioned by time in the representation required correction, my object would be to propose—if the happy medium can be found—such a reform as would in this respect satisfy the public expectation, without endangering—here was the limit, and the only limit—by sudden change and violent disturbance, the settled institutions of the country. Does my noble friend mean to say, that a reform which rests on that principle will be at once rejected by the country? If so, I tell him that those who would thus reject it expect revolution and not reform. My great object is, the desire of preventing that which, be it needed as it may, must always be the greatest of all possible political evils. The principle of my reform is, to prevent the necessity for revolution. And I must say, I do not. think it fair of my noble friend to look for a declaration less limited, or to wish for details. I trust the House will be satisfied with the principle and the limit I lay down, which seems to have been so much misunderstood by the noble Earl. When did he find that I limited the reform to giving Representatives to the large towns? The principle on which I mean to act is neither more nor less than that of reforming to preserve, and not to overthrow.Earl Grey
612611610609608607606 then spoke to the following effect:—My Lords, I have heard, with much satisfaction, what has been just said by my noble friend; and, my Lords, I feel inclined to take the occasion of what has fallen from him, to state very shortly,
612611610609608607606Earl Grey
ignis fatuus615 had listened to the statement of the noble Earl at the head of his Majesty's Ministers with his best attention, and, he was happy to say, with satisfaction. The question of Reform of Parliament had now made such progress, that the door could not be any longer shut against it, and the question was, what were they to do, what plan of reform was it most expedient to adopt? The answer of the noble Earl, that he should take care, in effecting a reform of the representation of the people, to inviolably preserve the monarchy, and the established institutions of the country, was one which he could not but approve of, and which, therefore, would make him willing to give the noble Earl his support when his measure was before their Lordships. He also, and so he was sure did every noble Lord who had heard him, approved of the views of the noble Earl respecting the foreign relations of the country—that every effort, compatible with the honour and character of the country, would be made to preserve peace; for he could assure him, that there was no one point on which the honest and sound portion of the community was more earnest than that we should, as much as possible, consistently with the permanent interests of the country, avoid unnecessary warlike interference with foreign States.
ignis fatuus615Lord Wharncliffe
667in666 rose to present a Petition from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Corporation of the City of London, in Common
667in666Lord King
 presented a Petition from the Burgh of Brechin, praying for a reform in the representation of Scotland. He would only call the attention of their Lordships to one fact contained in this petition, and that was that the forty-five Members for Scotland were elected by 3,000 persons.Lord King
668 rose to confirm his noble friend in the assumption which he had just
668Earl Grey
 gave notice, that he should move the second reading of this Bill to-morrow, and then requested that their Lordships should be summoned for that day. He said that he gave this short notice of his intention to bring on the second reading of this Bill to-morrow, on the assumption that no opposition would be made to its principle. From what had occurred on the night when he brought in this Bill, he did not anticipate any objection to the principle of the Bill. Any alteration that might appear necessary in the details of it, could be best made when the Bill was in Committee.Lord Lyndhurst
 presented two Petitions, one from the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch, signed by 4,000 persons, and the other from the parish of St. John,Southwark, against the Metropolitan Police Act The petitioners, he said, called for the abolition of the force called into existence by that Act. After what he had said on a former night on this subject, it was scarcely necessary for him to say that he did not concur with the petitioners in calling for the abolition of the force. At the same time he thought that an inquiry ought to be granted into the subject.Lord Durham
673 said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from Chester, which related to two subjects of the greatest possible importance; and his noble and learned friend then on the Woolsack, who had so long been the ornament of the other House, and was likely to be the ornament of this—having be-
673Earl Grosvenor
675674: My Lords, I have listened with great attention to the few observations which have been made by my noble friend upon these two questions that must be considered of paramount importance, whether we regard the interests of the empire, or the public duties of statesmen to the entire world. I am obliged to my noble friend for the opportunity he has afforded me, but as many other opportunities will occur, and at no very distant period of time, it prevents the necessity of my declaring my opinions at present. That my opinions are known to my noble friend on the topics to which he alludes may be true—that they may be known to other noble Lords, in common with; the great mass of my fellow-citizens, is probable, and I hope is not for my disadvantage. That any noble Lord should know so little of me I hope is not the case, as for a moment to suppose, that in any circumstances in which I can be placed upon this earth, my opinions, my feelings, my principles, my wishes in favour of both these great questions, always of extreme, and now of urgent importance to this empire, could suffer change, or that any thing could even induce me to abate one iota of the zeal which swells my bosom in these matters. At least I trust there can be but few who know so little of me, even from report, as to sus-
675674The Lord Chancellor
Customs Rotulorum 678677 fully concurred with the noble Earl in the opinion he had expressed with regard to the efficacy of the existing law to put down the disturbances that prevailed. Until the law as it
Customs Rotulorum 678677The Lord Chancellor
 begged to say a few words in explanation. When he had intimated that he would on all occasions defer systematically to the recommendations of the Lord-lieutenants, he had by no means forgotten the power which was reposed in him who held the Great Seal. He thought he had rather indicated to their Lordships that he recollected at once the existence and the nature of that power. All that he wished to state was, that without some unusual case occurred, he should be slow to interfere, and for this obvious reason,—namely, that local knowledge was necessary for a safe choice. Fully aware of the powers with which he was invested, he had, nevertheless, thought it a more delicate course to give this intimation than directly to interpose. He would take this opportunity of doing that which he should have done when he was upon his legs before if he had recollected it— namely, of giving notice, that on Thursday next he should move for leave to bring in a bill for the more effectual administration of justice in England and Wales, by means of Local Courts. To this bill he should beg most particularly to call the attention of the noble and learned Lords on the cross bench.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the noble Earl at the head of his Majesty's Government had said, that it was not his intention to propose any new measure in order to strengthen the law, unless in a case of extreme necessity. Now to him it appeared that a case of great, if not of extreme, necessity actually existed. A noble and learned Lord had told their Lordships, that one of the gaols was filled with persons apprehended during the recent disturbances, who were not natives of this country. It was notorious that many incendiaries, who had been unable to throw their own countries into flames, had issued forth to spread destruction elsewhere. It was not to be doubted that the greater part of those engaged in the recent outrages were English; but it was also probable that some foreigners were mingled with them. He admitted that the Special Commissions which were about to visit the disturbed districts were calculated to be useful; but he was apprehensive that they had not sufficient power to lay hold of the miscreants — the incendiaries, who were the really guilty persons. The farmers were compelled to go to the expense of protecting their property by night watches. This was an extraordinary scene, and appeared to him to require extraordinary powers and measures. No man was more attached than he was to our free institutions; no man was more jealous of liberty. But if there was any truth in the axiom that the public safety should be the supreme law, the present times came, in his opinion, within the meaning of that axiom, and demanded that some powerful measures should be adopted. He was persuaded that it would be impossible to lay hold of the incendiaries in question unless some strong measure—some temporary Alien Bill, should empower the Government to seize on any suspicious foreigners, and compel them to give an account of themselves. A measure of that description might be limited in its duration to three months, to two months, or to one month; but some such measure was absolutely necessary.The Earl of Falmouth
684 observed, that with respect to the county with which he was connected, he could add his testimony to that of the noble Duke, that up to the
684The Earl of Winchilsea
Merchants-quay, Dublin."" John Reynolds, Esq."Merchants-quay, Dublin."" John Reynolds, Esq."" With great esteem, on account of your exertions for years past to serve the poor, and to promote the general interests of Ireland, I have the honour to be, dear Sir, your faithful humble servant," The people should not be swayed by these men, for they neither feel nor suffer along with them; nor should the Government repose on their power or their influence, for power and influence, especially in Ireland, are not always allied to rank and wealth.687"I don't much attend to what has been reported as said by a certain class of persons, whether in or out of Parliament, on the repeal of the Union. These persons, not all of whom are competent to form a clear or sound judgment, are generally men who have other interests than those of the great body of the English and Irish people; persons who are swayed by those interests, or by unfounded fears or idle apprehensions. Those persons, and such as those who are ' clothed in purple and fine linen, and fare sumptuously every day,' are averse to all
687" The Union question is one of great difficulty and importance. I have given to it all the consideration of which I am capable. I am unable to calculate all the consequences of a repeal; but, so far as I can do so, they appear to me useful to both countries—favourable to public liberty, and embracing those great and salutary reforms which a united Parliament will be slow and timid in effecting in Ireland."Dear Sir.—Though I regret being drawn into public notice, I cannot but appreciate highly the vote of thanks with which the numerous and very respectable meeting of the inhabitants of the parish of Cooperstown, in which you presided, lately honoured me. May I beg you will convey to them the expression of my gratitude, and accept for yourself my sincerest thanks. Carlow, Nov." Carlow, Nov.686685 thought it his duty to call their Lordships attention to proceedings of a most inflammatory description which were persevered in by some parties in Ireland. In particular, he begged to call their Lordships' attention to a meeting which took place on the 23rd instant, and at which most inflammatory language was used. He should think it a dereliction of duty not to advert to the subject and would beg leave to read the report, published in an Irish paper, of a speech then made by Mr. Maurice O'Connell, at a public meeting in Dublin:—" Mr. Maurice O'Connell was loudly called on from all parts of the room. He rose to address the meeting amid the most enthusiastic applause. He felt, he said, the most sincere satisfaction at beholding so respect-
Merchants-quay, Dublin."" John Reynolds, Esq."Merchants-quay, Dublin."" John Reynolds, Esq."" With great esteem, on account of your exertions for years past to serve the poor, and to promote the general interests of Ireland, I have the honour to be, dear Sir, your faithful humble servant," The people should not be swayed by these men, for they neither feel nor suffer along with them; nor should the Government repose on their power or their influence, for power and influence, especially in Ireland, are not always allied to rank and wealth.687"I don't much attend to what has been reported as said by a certain class of persons, whether in or out of Parliament, on the repeal of the Union. These persons, not all of whom are competent to form a clear or sound judgment, are generally men who have other interests than those of the great body of the English and Irish people; persons who are swayed by those interests, or by unfounded fears or idle apprehensions. Those persons, and such as those who are ' clothed in purple and fine linen, and fare sumptuously every day,' are averse to all
687" The Union question is one of great difficulty and importance. I have given to it all the consideration of which I am capable. I am unable to calculate all the consequences of a repeal; but, so far as I can do so, they appear to me useful to both countries—favourable to public liberty, and embracing those great and salutary reforms which a united Parliament will be slow and timid in effecting in Ireland."Dear Sir.—Though I regret being drawn into public notice, I cannot but appreciate highly the vote of thanks with which the numerous and very respectable meeting of the inhabitants of the parish of Cooperstown, in which you presided, lately honoured me. May I beg you will convey to them the expression of my gratitude, and accept for yourself my sincerest thanks. Carlow, Nov." Carlow, Nov.686685Lord Carberry
690689688 rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Administration of the Poor-laws. He had always been of opinion that the population of the country, although it might at some period exceed; the immediate means of support, was generally by no means too great. The experience of last year had convinced him that the population engaged in agriculture was not too great. With respect to wages, also, it would be found on inquiry that wages at present were not only equal to those of former days, but superior. Comparing the present price of labour, with reference to the price of provisions, with the price of labour from the beginning of the seventeenth, to the beginning of the eighteenth century, it appeared that it
690689688The Marquis of Salisbury
691 said, it was not his intention to make any objection or to offer any opposition to the motion of the noble Marquis, and he therefore should not, at that moment, trouble the House with any observations on the questions which that motion involved, further than to say, that there could not in his opinion be any more important subject brought before the attention of a committee of that House, than an examination of the method of administering the Poor-laws, with a view to the amelioration of the condition of the labouring classes. He hoped, therefore, that their Lordships would acquiesce in the motion of the noble Marquis without entering into any detailed examination of the subjects which it embraced. For his part, he could only say, that all the topics connected with the question would, in his opinion, be discussed with much more propriety, and much greater advantage, when they came to consider the recommendations contained in the reports of the Committee; and he thought, too, that under the present peculiar circumstances of the country, it was extremely desirable to avoid the danger of increasing the existing excitement, or of fostering expectations which it would not be in their power to realise. For that reason, among others, he trusted that at the present moment the Committee would be granted without any further discussion; but he hoped that the noble Marquis would prosecute his inquiries with a view to the result which he proposed. He wished to state then, without holding out any expectation on the subject, that if any measure should occur to the Government, which they might think necessary in the interval between the appointment of the noble Marquis's committee and the communication of the result of its inquiries to Parliament, the Government would feel itself at perfect liberty to propose such measures; but at the same time he should not feel justified in neglecting to avail himself of any evidence which the noble Marquis might have collected in the interim, but which he
691Earl Grey
 felt confident, that it was not necessary for him to assure their Lord ships that the matters, to which the noble and learned Lord had alluded had been, and would continue to be, constant subjects of consideration to his Majesty's Government. He certainly had no intention to propose that such an inquiry as the noble and learned Lord had mentioned should be instituted; but there would that night be a committee moved for, which would include no inconsiderable portion of the subject, and if it were thought desirable by their Lordships that the powers of that committee should be carried further, he should have no objection to accede to a proposal to that effect. With respect to conferring additional powers on Magistrates, it had not yet occurred to him that any such step was necessary. The law, as it at present stood, had been found by active Magistrates, who exerted themselves properly, to be sufficiently powerful to put down disturbances. He had, therefore, no intention to increase the power of Magistrates. Indeed, it was his anxious wish, except a case of absolute and extreme necessity should arise, not to depart from the provisions of the law; but if any such case of absolute and extreme necessity should unhappily arise, their Lordships might be assured that he would not be backward in asking from the Legislature such further powers as the exigencies of the case might require.Earl Grey
682, in explanation, said,
682The Earl of Eldon
680679Custos Rotulorum, said, that he took it to be quite clear that the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack was invested with the right to determine who should, and who should not, be Justices of the Peace; and, consequently, that it was in the power of the noble and learned Lord to take care that the magistracy was efficiently supplied. During the five and twenty years that he was Chancellor, he had been greatly indebted—and he begged now to acknowledge and to return his thanks for the obligations—to many noble Lords for recommendations of persons who were fit to be Justices of the Peace. It was obvious that a Lord Chancellor was not always capable of judging of the fitness or unfitness of persons to be Magistrates; and he must therefore say, that he felt greatly indebted for those recommendations. The only case in which he had ever interfered was, if he recollected right, when the late Bishop Barrington thought proper to strike out a person from the commission; and then he did interfere, because he thought that none but the Lord Chancellor ought to have this power. He did not recollect a single instance in which he had refused a recommendation; but he had always taken care that no Lord-lieutenant should strike out any person named in the commission. Having said thus much, he would only add, upon this subject, that he was convinced that a Lord-lieutenant, as 680679Custos Rotulorum,The Earl of Eldon
 wished to give a notice, and he would give it for a distant day, in the hope that the subject might be taken up by some one more competent to treat it than himself, that he meant to bring the distressed state of the country under their Lordships consideration. He was persuaded that if something were not done to remove the discontent of the great body of the yeomanry of the country, the most serious consequences would ensue. He therefore gave notice, that on the 9th of December he would move for an inquiry into the distressed state of the agriculture, commerce, and manufactures of the country, and into the means of mitigating that distress.Lord Wynford
676 said, that he rose for the purpose of giving notice, that he would to-morrow move for leave to bring in a Bill to lessen the expense of legal proceedings. He would take the opportunity of asking a
676Lord Wynford
 begged to say a few words in confirmation of what had fallen from his noble and learned friend on the Woolsack. He joined with his noble and learned friend in urging the Lord-lieutenants of counties to take measures for placing in the Commission of the Peace such individuals as, after careful inquiry, should be found, from their activity, zeal, and character, proper persons in whom to repose that confidence. There appeared to be some difference of principle in the motives for selection in different counties. In some, certain persons were included, in others they were excluded. He would not say which was right, or which was wrong; but he again begged noble Lords to consider well what description of persons it was advisable to introduce into the commission, and not to omit any who were likely to discharge the duties of the office with firmness, impartiality, and discretion. With respect to what had fallen from the noble and learned Lord opposite, the present was not the time to discuss that subject. He agreed with that noble and learned Lord, that many of the persons who had been lately led into the commission of crimes new in this country, were not aware of the extent of their offence; and he also agreed with him that it was necessary that the law should be speedily expounded, and carried into effect where necessary, but that the execution of it should be tempered with lenity whenever it should appear that the offenders were ignorant, and had been misled. If, how ever, the necessity should take place—which he trusted to God it would not— if the disturbances should spread—he had no wish to create delusion, but he had great hopes that they would be prevented from spreading— if, however, they should spread, his Majesty's Government would take measures promptly to suppress them, to preserve the public peace, and to maintain the authority of the laws. As to the fact stated by the noble and learned Lord, that there were many persons, not natives of this country, in one of our gaols, he hoped some allowance would be made for the circumstances under which he had come into office, and that it would not be expected that he could at present possess all the information necessary to meet such an allegation: but this he would say, that he had no reason to believe, that the noble and learned Lord's statement was well-founded.Viscount Melbourne
683 said, that after the fullest consideration which he had
683The Duke of Wellington
fructus prœdii.bona fidebona fidebona fide702 concurred with what had fallen from the Lord Chief Justice on this very important proposition of his noble and learned friend. Undoubtedly, his noble and learned friend had gone over a large space; and the changes which his Bill would make in the law were neither slight nor unimportant. He there-
fructus prœdii.bona fidebona fidebona fide702The Lord Chancellor
 in presenting a petition from Gallowshiels in Scotland, praying for the gradual abolition of Slavery, said, that in the course of his services it had fallen to his lot to visit the principal places in which slavery prevailed. He could therefore speak upon the subject with the advantages of actual experience, and he could assure their Lordships, that slavery was an affair of considerably more importance than people generally thought it to be. His experience, and the consideration he had given to the subject, had led him to this opinion, namely—that their Lordships would never understand the matter until it was thoroughly examined by a committee of their own number. He did not mean a committee which should be roasting up stairs during the summer months, and which should listen to the evidence of self-styled philanthropists and philosophers, who would come before them with a lie in their right hands, for the purpose of deceiving their Lordships,—he did not mean such a committee as that, but a committee which should visit the colonies, inspect the slave-markets, and contemplate slavery in its naked deformity. This was the only way, he was convinced, in which their Lordships could arrive at a correct understanding of the subject; and, for his own part, he cheerfully offered his services to go as one of such a committee.Lord Napier,
 said, that his noble and learned friend was aware that the principles of the Civil Law, as they affected this question, went much further than he proposed. He would not, however, then discuss that or any other points likely to come into dispute. His Lordship accordingly concluded by repeating his conviction, that time should be allowed to weigh the changes which this Bill would make in the law, especially as some of its clauses were novelties, and unlike the majority of them, which were recommendations from the Commissioners.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that it was not his intention to advert on the present occasion to the different topics to which his noble and learned friend had alluded in his able and eloquent speech, much less to meet them with any opposition. He should give his best attention to this Bill, or to such parts of it as in his judgment he should consider to be improvements in the existing law. He only rose on the present occasion to prevent it from being supposed that he assented to the Bill by letting it pass by in silence. There were some points in the Bill with which at present he could not agree: but he would take time to consider it more maturely before he gave a decisive opinion upon it.Lord Tenterden
 said, that he had no intention of the sort.Lord Wynford
bona fide701700non assumpsit.699698697viva voce696l.;695694693692 said, that he rose, pursuant to the notice he had before given, to
bona fide701700non assumpsit.699698697viva voce696l.;695694693692Lord Wynford
 said, he should consider corn sown by the party against whom the judgment was given, as a species of emblements, and should leave the party recovering the lands to take it upon such terms as the Judges might think proper.Lord Wynford
 in presenting some Petitions on this subject, expressed a wish, that, whenever the question was brought forward, it would be by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack. He urged the necessity of as speedy a consideration of the question as was consistent with the important duties of the new Administration, with a view to the abolition of Slavery. He knew that it could not be brought forward before the recess, but immediately afterwards he hoped that it would be submitted to their Lordships' consideration; and that measures would then be taken to give liberty to the unfortunate slave.Earl Grosvenor,
 said, that he had a Petition to present from Roman Catholic inhabitants of the county of Mayo. The petitioners complained, and, in his opinion, very justly complained, that notwithstanding the great measure of relief, so consistent with principles of good policy and of Christian charity, they were still deprived, in consequence of the religion they professed, of the benefit of the parliamentary grants destined for the education of the poor in Ireland. They stated that they could not conscientiously send their children to be educated at the schools of the Kildare-street Society, and they therefore prayed for a more equitable distribution of the national funds.The Bishop of Norwich
 thought the attacks that were frequently made on the Kildare-street Society most unfair, for that society had diffused the benefits of education in different parts of the country, and would have been more extensively useful but for the Catholic priesthood. Parents were disposed to send their children to school, but the priests would not allow them. He had heard that they had refused spiritual consolation to their followers when these latter persisted in sending their children to the schools of the Society, and he knew that their influence had been noxious to a Society, to the utility of which he desired to bear his testimony.Lord Carbery
 thought the noble Lord's observations confirmatory of the statement in the petition, and an additional proof that the national funds should not be exclusively confined to one Society to which the great majority of the people were hostile.The Bishop of Norwich
739738737vice versa;736735l.,l.l.,l.,734l.;733732l.;l.l.l.l.l.731l.l.l.,l.l.;730l.;l.;l.;729728727l.l.l.;l.l.,l.,a laughs.l.,s.;l.,s.;l.,726725724"Regiam Majestatem"723l.l.l.s.l.s.722s.s.s.721l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,720l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.:l.l.;l.l.l.719l.,s.,l.718l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l.717716l.l.,l.l.l.l.d.s.715s.s.714713712711710709708 said, that in rising to call the attention of their Lordships to a subject of the highest possible importance, involving in no inconsiderable degree the welfare of the country, he could not help feeling that he owed to their. Lordships a very ample apology for having undertaken a matter of so great moment, as well as of so vast extent, considering how
739738737vice versa;736735l.,l.l.,l.,734l.;733732l.;l.l.l.l.l.731l.l.l.,l.l.;730l.;l.;l.;729728727l.l.l.;l.l.,l.,a laughs.l.,s.;l.,s.;l.,726725724"Regiam Majestatem"723l.l.l.s.l.s.722s.s.s.721l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,720l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.:l.l.;l.l.l.719l.,s.,l.718l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l.717716l.l.,l.l.l.l.d.s.715s.s.714713712711710709708The Lord Chancellor
740:—The ordinary course, my Lords, when measures of such vast consequence are first presented for your Lordships' consideration, is to lay the Bill containing the details of these measures on the Table, and then to order it to be printed; and to allow your Lordships a competent time to examine them thoroughly, before the Bill is read a second time. Such is the course which, as I understand him, my noble and learned friend proposes to follow on this occasion: so that your Lordships may have the opportunity of coming fully prepared, at the second reading, to discuss the principles and details of this new and extensive alteration in the system of administrative justice. At present I content myself with saying, that the plan is one of the highest importance; and I fully concur with my noble friend in the opinion, that your Lordships are bound to give it your most serious attention. For we must consider that the effect of it, if it should be adopted by the Legislature, will be, to create fifty new Courts of Justice, to be presided over
740Lord Lyndhurst
755754753Morning Chronicle,752The Morning Chronicle.The Morning Chronicle751 begged the attention of their Lordships for a few moments. Their Lordships were very well aware how disagreeable, how painful, how distressing, it was for him to address their Lordships upon any occasion. Their Lordships, therefore, might readily conceive what his feelings were in rising to address them upon a subject which regarded himself. He must, however, claim their Lordships' indulgence and attention for a few moments; and he hoped they would bear with him if he should be betrayed into using any expressions, while speaking of himself, which, under other circumstances, it would not become him to use, or them to listen to. He had to make a complaint to their Lordships. He would not put his complaint upon the ground of a breach of privilege—no, he would not shelter himself under that—but he must say, that he considered what had been said respecting himself,—which was what he had to complain to their Lordships of,
755754753Morning Chronicle,752The Morning Chronicle.The Morning Chronicle751The Duke of Newcastle
760 said, that he would have read the communication from the Attorney General, to which the noble
760The Duke of Newcastle
763762761 said, that it was impossible for him to suffer this conversation to drop without offering a few observations to their Lordships, though he believed that it was most irregular, as the noble Duke who had commenced it had not followed it up by any motion. Indeed he did not see how any of the circumstances to which the noble Duke had alluded could be made the foundation of any motion in that House. He would therefore commence by avowing that what occasioned him to rise at that moment was, his decided conviction that the noble Duke had been misinformed as to the words made use of by his learned friend, the King's Attorney General. If he had been acquainted beforehand with the intention of the noble Duke to make those words the subject of discussion before their Lordships, he could have satisfied the noble Duke, irritable though he might be on this subject; and he could have appeased the noble Duke's feeling of irritation, natural as it was, by the statement of a few facts, which he now felt himself bound to lay before their Lordships, in strict justice not only to his learned friend, the King's Attorney General, but also to the noble Duke, who felt himself aggrieved by his learned friend's observations. He agreed with his noble friend, that what a gentleman said before his constituents, as a candidate for their renewed suffrages, was—he would not say, to be taken with greater latitude of interpretation and to be visited with greater indulgence than the deliberate declaration of his opinions,—but he would say, that it was not to be confounded with what the King's Attorney General
763762761The Lord Chancellor
: I think it right to state to the noble Earl at the head of the Administration, that at the time of the interview which I had with him yesterday, I had no intention to do that which I have done now. It was only this morning that I took the resolution of acting as I have now done.The Duke of Newcastle
759758757756 said, that after the direct and pointed allusions which the noble Duke had made to him personally, their Lordships would doubtless expect that he should say something upon the matter which the noble Duke had brought under the notice of their Lordships. He had risen, therefore, to address their Lordships, though he was free to confess he felt considerable difficulty in giving utterance to one word upon the matter, not having very distinctly understood what object the noble Duke had in view in bringing forward this matter of complaint, and still less understanding how it was possible that that House should take cognizance of the circumstance complained of. In one thing, however, he felt no difficulty at all, and that was, in returning to the noble Duke his best thanks for the very flattering manner in which the noble Duke had
759758757756Earl Grey
764 moved to add a clause to the Bill to the
764Lord Lyndhurst
767en ventre sa mere,766en ventre sa mere,en ventre sa mere.enceinteenceinte,765 wished to take that opportunity to state an important circumstance connected with the principle of this Bill. It appeared that the whole of the arrangements of this measure were such as to meet the exigency of the occasion, while they were so framed as to steer clear of the various conflicting interests connected with such an important question. As the principle upon which this Bill was founded, was capable, and likely, of being drawn into a precedent in after times, it was necessary and fitting that the measure should go down to posterity clear of all doubt and uncertainty, not only as to its arrangements, but also as to the observations and arguments which might have been stated in reference to it by any person either there or elsewhere. It had been said, he believed, that this was a case entirely of the first impression, and that this Bill was framed upon no ordinary principle, much less in accordance with any example to be found in the former periods of our history. He thought it right,
767en ventre sa mere,766en ventre sa mere,en ventre sa mere.enceinteenceinte,765The Lord Chancellor
 moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of this Bill.Lord Lyndhurst
prima facie,818l.817 regretted that he did not see the noble Earl at the head of his
prima facie,818l.817Lord Farnham
821820819 said, that nothing could be more fair or candid than the questions which had been asked by the noble Lord, and he only regretted that he had to state in reply that, at present, nothing in the way of minute information could be obtained upon the points to which those questions referred, not merely on account of the absence of his noble friend, at the head of his Majesty's Government, to whose department every question regarding economy more particularly related, but also because, in point of time, the questions themselves were premature. The noble Lord had said, that he had heard that the arrangements in question had been framed upon economical principles, and that he wished to give Ministers an opportunity of stating them to the House; but it must be evident to the noble Lord, that unless arrangements were completed, it would be impossible for the Government to take the opportunity of stating them to the House. With regard to his first question, it appeared that the noble Lord entertained the opinion, that the officer who discharged the judicial functions attached to the situation which he (the Lord Chancellor) filled in that House, and the officer who filled a similar situation in the sister kingdom, were not persons who should have seats in the Cabinet, or be politically connected with the Administration of the day. Now, whether or not it might be more desirable, for the better administration of justice in the country (using the word in the largest and most comprehensive sense), that the rule of
821820819The Lord Chancellor
 presented a Petition from Kilkenny, complaining of distress, and praying for a Repeal of the Union. The noble Marquis stated it as his conviction, that a Repeal of the Union would be a most disastrous measure to both countries.The Marquis of Ormonde
824 wished to add one word to what had fallen from his noble friend. The number of the persons assembled was certainly great, inconveniently great, of course, because the assembling of large numbers must always be more or less dangerous to the public peace. Still, however, if great numbers of the trades, or of other persons, were to say that they should like to see their Sovereign, or to accompany those who carried up an Address, how were their Lordships to prevent them doing so? The people might walk the streets if they pleased, and St. James's-street or Pall Mall were not exceptions; and they might walk with or without banners, the law would not justify any interference, much less the exertion of force, unless there was a probability of a breach of the peace. There was no such proba-
824The Lord Chancellor
 quite concurred in that opinion. He did not know any thing that would be more disastrous to Ireland than a repeal of the Union. He really believed, that if their Lordships thought fit to erect Ireland into an entirely separate State, and to send to the Continent—to Prussia, Austria, or Russia, for some Prince to place as a sovereign there, they could not more completely lay the foundation of the utter ruin and subversion of the empire, than by repealing the Union. He would assert, that ninety-nine out of a hundred men of property in Ireland,—that all respectable persons, Catholics and Protestants, were against a repeal of the Union. No man was a greater friend than he (Lord Clifden) was to an effectual and proper reform, but he was at the same time decidedly opposed to universal suffrage, radical reform, and the repeal of the Union.Lord Clifden
823 said, that he was glad the noble Duke had called their Lordships' attention to the transaction, and he would, in a few words, give them a satisfactory explanation as to the whole circumstance from the beginning, and the whole course of proceeding which had led to the procession alluded to by the noble Duke. Almost the day after that upon which he had received the Seals of Office, he was waited upon by a deputation of the united trades of the City of London, who stated, that in consequence of the very severe disappointment which the City had experienced, from the putting off his Majesty's visit to the Lord Mayor, they were anxious to be allowed to present an Address to his Majesty, to testify their loyalty to his Majesty, and their firm attachment to the Laws and Constitution of the realm. Seeing no objection whatever to the presentation of such an Address, the more especially as they stated that it would be presented by a deputation of three individuals at the levee, he undoubtedly took his Majesty's pleasure concerning it: and his Majesty was graciously pleased to give his assent to its present-
823Viscount Melbourne
822 said, that their Lordships were probably aware that there was in the custody of the officer of that House an individual charged with the commission of a heinous offence within their Lordships' jurisdiction. It was
822Viscount Melbourne
 wished to take that opportunity to advert to a matter which was of much more importance than the conduct of an individual,—he meant the procession which had taken place that day, through the streets of the metropolis, to the Palace at St. James's. That procession had been attended by a large body of people; it had occasioned large assemblages in the streets through which it had passed; and he therefore begged leave to call the attention of the noble Lord (the Secretary for the Home Department) to the circumstance, if it had not already attracted his attention. It seemed to him to be a very important matter, and as such he wished to hear what steps had been taken with respect to it.The Duke of Wellington
 said, that he did not know that the Government had received any information upon the subject, or he should not have mentioned it. As to the assemblage being a legal one,—he had not the Act of Parliament by him,— but he believed it to be altogether illegal. He thought such a proceeding contrary to the law. However, it was without any knowledge of those circumstances which the noble Viscount had stated, that he had felt it his duty to call the attention of the noble Viscount thus publicly to the subject,—and he must say, if such an assemblage were not contrary to the law, it was certainly extremely dangerous to the public peace.The Duke of Wellington
849848847846 having been a warm supporter of a Motion made by a noble Duke (Richmond) on a subject somewhat analogous to this, although between the two there was certainly a broad line of distinction, and although the noble Baron opposite had not stated whether he moved for a Select Committee, or for a Committee of the whole House, [Lord Wynford signified that he left that to their Lordships]; but putting that difference out of the question, having been in the course of the last Session a warm supporter of a Motion of this sort, he felt bound now to state why he dissented from the present Motion; and, in doing so, he should declare that he was not conscious of any inconsistency in conduct or opinion, for he asserted then, as he believed now, that the strictest inquiry should be made into the causes of these periodical returns of national distress. The first reason on which he objected to the present Motion was, that a few days ago a Committee on the Poor-laws had been appointed; and thinking, as he did, that the mal-administration of those laws was a principal
849848847846The Earl of Rosebery,
856855854853852ignis fatuus, spoke as follows:—The noble and learned Lord,—for learned I must call him, and learned I have no doubt he is in his own profession, but learned he is not in the information which is wanted here, or at least he has thrown no light on the opaque atmosphere which a learned Gentleman below the bar told us pervaded this House,—the noble and learned Lord has moved for a committee to inquire into the causes of the distress which now pervades the country, to devise remedies for it, and to report its opinion thereupon to the House. Taking the view of this question that the noble and learned Lord has taken, I am surprised that he does not see that the committee for which he moves would, if granted to him, be nothing more than a mere 856855854853852ignis fatuus,Lord King
858857 said, that after the support which he had given in the last Session of Parliament to the Motion of his noble friend (Earl Stanhope) for a committee to inquire into the condition of the agricultural interest, he should deem himself guilty of a great inconsistency were he not to support the Motion now proposed by the noble and learned Lord. He did not think that the vote which he intended to give that evening was inconsistent with the professions of confidence which he had made towards the noble
858857The Earl of Winchilsea
 explained, that the noble Earl had very much misrepresented, undoubtedly because he misunderstood, what fell from him. He was far from thinking that the committee to consider of the Poor-laws was sufficient to ascertain all the causes of the distress of the labouring classes. What he meant was, that after an inquiry had been instituted by the House into one of those causes, and after the Ministers had stated that they would investigate the subject, he considered it inexpedient to enter into a more extended inquiry.The Earl of Rosebery
870 wished to state, very shortly, the reasons which induced him to vote against the Motion. He was the more especially anxious to claim this indulgence, after the speeches of the two noble Earls who last addressed the House, because from their arguments it would appear, that he should act most inconsistently with his former conduct in voting against this Motion. The circumstances of the present case were, however, totally different from those under which he voted last Session, and this alone he deemed a sufficient apology, if apology were necessary, for the vote he meant to give. But before he entered more fully into a description of this change of circumstances, he felt it incumbent upon him to allude a little to the spirit in which this Motion had been introduced. The noble and learned Lord, in moving for a committee to inquire into all the causes of distress, had stated in a very able and animated manner what he conceived those causes to be. They were sufficiently numerous; and to meet his wishes, the committee, which he called upon their Lordships to appoint, would, among other things, have to inquire into the nature and operation of the Poor-laws, the Cornlaws, Free-trade, the Currency system, and the question of encouraging or discouraging machinery. He should like to ask how any body of men, whether in a committee or out of it, could bring their minds properly and fully to investigate all these subjects? Differences of opinion would necessarily arise among the members of any committee, which would effectually preclude them from arriving at any practicable results. The noble Earl who spoke last expressed an opinion in favour of regulating the use of machinery—but only to a certain extent—that which has been recently introduced. Upon that point alone how many points of dissension might arise! Some noble Lords, perhaps, would think that, under this appellation of recently introduced machinery, were included thrashing machines—others that
870The Earl of Radnor
 rose to order.Lords Teynham and Stanhope
873872:— "I do not intend my observations in a personal sense. I had no personal allusion. I could not have any personal feelings against the late Government individually; and spoke of them only in their aggregate ministerial capacity. I will, besides, not stand by the word ' vengeance.' It was not, perhaps, the very exact phrase I meant. Your Lordships must perceive that my expressions come to me but slowly, and I am oftentimes therefore obliged to put up with the first that comes, not having the choice of a selection. While I state this with respect to the word 'vengeance,' I beg leave to add that, I do not at all retract the sentiment which it was intended to express." The noble Earl proceeded to say, that he thought the Motion for inquiry uncalled for in itself, as well as unjust to the new Government. It should be recollected that the noble Earl (Grey) and his colleagues opposite had been but three weeks in Office, and yet they had at the earliest hour stated their determination to apply their best energies to the investigation and remedy of the distressed condition of the country. It was, apart from the impolicy of relieving Ministers from the responsibility of the exercise of their executive functions, but justice and common fairness to await the result of their pledges. He was no blind adherent to any set of men, but placed great confidence in the present Administration, knowing that it possessed more ability, knowledge, and fewer prejudices, than any within his recollection. It was but fair, then, to give them a trial. If after the recess they should fail to redeem their pledges, the noble and learned Lord might come forward with his Motion under circumstances much more favourable to its success than possibly could exist at present. Besides, the House was then about to adjourn for some six or seven weeks,—so that, if even the noble Lord's Committee were appointed, it could not have more than one or two sittings till the month of February,—before which time, it was but fair to presume, Ministers would be prepared with some measure of domestic policy, which would supersede inquiry by the objectionable form of committee. Did the noble Lord mean that Parliament should continue to sit through
873872The Earl of Radnor
 was convinced, that some inquiry was necessary, and he should support the Motion, with an amendment, which he would take the liberty to move, viz. that the subject of the Poor-laws be omitted from the inquiry of the committee.Lord Teynham
 meant to oppose the Motion of the noble and learned Lord. The responsibility of Government should be perfect, and when Ministers took upon themselves to do what was their duty, he for one did not think the interference of the House was necessary. It was the duty of that House to see that Ministers did what was right, and the country could not show too much gratitude to them, if, under existing circumstances, they performed their functions with reference to the interests of the community. He hoped, that his Majesty's Ministers would pursue the part of a parental Government, and administer to the wants and necessities of the country.The Duke of Newcastle
Than Cæsar with a Senate at his heels."And more true joy Marcellus exil'd feelsOf stupid starers and of loud huzzas;"One self-approving hour whole years outweighs,886885 thought, that it was not right to hold out fallacious hopes, and in the present state of the country, he thought the Motion ought to be resisted. The present agitation arose from a want of consideration for each other by several parties. The manufacturers blamed the masters, and the tenants blamed the landlords; but all parties should be disposed to unite in a disposition to relieve the poor, and in the principle of "live and let live." Many persons talked of Parliamentary Reform as a measure that would suffice to relieve the country; but without attributing to it that magic power which would remove all our difficulties, he thought that the time was now arrived when it could not be longer withheld. At the same time he would say, that in a reform their Lordships should proceed with caution, in order to guard against confusion and anarchy. But reform
Than Cæsar with a Senate at his heels."And more true joy Marcellus exil'd feelsOf stupid starers and of loud huzzas;"One self-approving hour whole years outweighs,886885The Earl of Fife
888 conceived, that by going into the inquiry proposed by the noble and learned Lord, their Lordships would only embarrass themselves, and not obtain the end they had in view in the committee on which some of them were already engaged. One thing he had heard
888The Earl of Carnarvon
889 said, he would not have obtruded himself on their Lordships at that hour, if an attack had not been made upon him. He must say, he never had denied the existence of distress. He had only said, that the distress was greatly exaggerated, and that that exaggeration had tended greatly to produce much of the present excitement in the
889The Earl of Darnley
891l."bis Salvator Patriœ"890 said, had I risen earlier in the debate, I should have entered more fully into the subject before your Lordships. But there is one fact, which I must advert to. It was said, that the condition of the manufacturers had only improved since the late troubles in France. I can state, for the satisfaction of the House, that the improvement in our manufactures commenced in the early part of the Spring, and has rather suffered, in consequence of those troubles; which, for a time, has given some check to commercial credit and confidence. I think that the depression of the agricultural interest is not of to-day, or of yesterday; but, that it is hardly possible to put one's finger upon a time, since the last war, when it was prosperous, unless in a period of general excitement such as 1824, when the extraordinary amount of capital expended produced everywhere a feverish and short-lived prosperity. With respect to machinery, I must say, that so far from its being injurious to the country, I think that it is principally owing to machinery being more applicable to manufactures, than to agriculture, that the manufacturers are better able to employ their men, and to meet foreign competition, notwithstanding the heavy incumbrances of the country,—incumbrances which I could undertake to prove, from several distinct and powerful causes, are at this moment heavier, notwithstanding every reduction in taxation, than during the last years of the war. Nor is it very practicable to draw a line, and to say what is new machinery, and what is not: for example, the wheel-barrow, that seems of such easy contrivance as might make it appear of very old date, may be called machinery of the middle ages; having been the invention, as I have been assured, of Pascal, during the reign of Lewis 14th. I have risen also to suggest to Ministers the necessity, if we continue to support a golden currency, of paying the utmost
891l."bis Salvator Patriœ"890Lord Stourton
 wished, in the absence of the noble Duke lately at the head of the Administration, to correct a misrepresentation of the noble Lord with regard to what had fallen from that noble Duke in a former Session of Parliament. He did not wish it to go forth to the public that the noble Duke, then at the head of his Majesty's Government, had said, that he was satisfied that machinery was productive of mischief, and tended to impoverish the people. He was sure that the noble Duke never said any such thing, or anything like it. He was sure that his Majesty's Ministers were not of opinion that machinery was the cause of distress, or produced any want of employment.The Earl of Rosslyn
887 said, that at that late hour he would not occupy the time of their Lordships at any length. He rose chiefly to correct what had been said by his noble friend (Earl Stanhope), which no doubt his noble friend himself would regret when he considered the matter. The noble Earl had said, that the committee up-stairs were not inquiring into the condition of the labouring classes, or the cause of their distress. It did not certainly on the first day—the only day, by the way, on which the noble and learned Lord whose Motion was now before the House was present. No doubt that noble and learned Lord had other important avocations which prevented him, and certainly the same avocations would prevent him, from giving any efficient attendance at the two committees, if the one for which he now moved were appointed. On the first day, a noble Lord on the committee objected to entering into any inquiry into the effect of the change of the currency, as going out of the line of inquiry proposed to the committee, which would have quite enough to do without going into that question; but those noble Lords who did attend the committee would bear him out in the statement, and their Lordships would find, on reference to the evidence, that one of the first questions put to every witness was, "Are the labourers in the same condition that they were ten years ago?" The answer, "They are not;" and then came the
887The Duke of Richmond
895 wished to correct another misstatement of the noble Lord. He had said, that a noble Earl, not then in his place (Roseberry) had attributed all the disturbance to the educa-
895The Duke of Richmond
 stated, that the noble Lord must surely remember that he had stated, as soon as he had been appointed to Office, that his Majesty's Government would apply themselves to consider the state of the country. The first opportunity he had had, he had stated that his Majesty's Ministers would do so, and that he considered it not less their interest than their duty. Did the noble Lord think that they were so negligent or so ignorant of their duty, as not to know that their first attention ought to be directed to the most serious evils that ever a Ministry had to encounter?Earl Grey
884883882881880879878877 said, that what he had to state might be put in a very small compass. He did not feel himself called upon to state his opinions and views respecting the various subjects which had been introduced by the noble and learned Lord. He was not prepared for it. He had no reason to expect that the discussion would have taken such a course. He did not feel called upon to touch on subjects, each of which would require long and anxious consideration. He did not feel qualified at the moment to enter on the Corn-laws, or the novel proposition respecting machinery, which had been broached by a noble Earl. He did not think he could do so with honour to himself, or advantage to the country. He asked the noble Earl what he meant by ancient machinery— was it a spade—was it a plough—or did he mean to retain the rude implements of agriculture, and reject all improvements? He objected to the committee upon the grounds set forth by the noble Earl, who spoke before the noble Duke, and he thought the course pursued that night fully demonstrated the inutility of a committee such as was moved for by the noble and learned Lord. To the Committee on the Poor-laws he had given his cheerful assent, feeling that inquiry might be useful, as it was likely to lead to the correction of that which was known to be a great evil,
884883882881880879878877Earl Grey
 also explained, that the noble Earl did not quite understand the observations which he made upon the subject of machinery. Upon the motion before the House he could only repeat, that after the best consideration he had been able to give to the state of the country, he deemed inquiry necessary; and should support the Motion.The Earl of Eldon
 with reference to the insinuation of the noble Earl (Radnor) begged to say, that it was amongst the greatest of his consolations, on a retrospect of his political life, that he had always advocated political principles the very opposite to those maintained by the noble Earl.The Earl of Eldon
851850 said, that their Lordships would perhaps be surprised to hear that, timid as he generally was in coming to a decision, he was now fully and deeply impressed with a sense of the necessity that existed for a parliamentary inquiry into the causes of the distress which pervaded the country. Whether he was right or wrong in the conviction which he entertained, he would not pretend to say; but having such a conviction as he had, he felt compelled to give his consent to the Motion of his noble and learned friend for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the causes of the present lamentable condition of the country. Some two or three years ago several dif-
851850The Earl of Eldon
868867866865864863862861860859 wished their Lordships to recollect, that he was induced, in the course of the last Session of Parliament, to submit to their consideration a motion in almost every respect similar to the present. That motion was not acceded to by their Lordships, but consistency of conduct, joined to his unaltered opinions, induced him to support the present motion. It had been objected by the noble Earl who spoke first on the other side of the House, that this Motion seemed to imply a want of confidence in the newly-constituted Administration. Upon that point he differed from the noble Earl; considering
868867866865864863862861860859Earl Stanhope
 in explanation, said, that he had not charged the committee up stairs with not being; competent to go through the inquiry into the state of the poor. All he had said was, that their inquiry would not embrace the causes of the distress. What he had said of machinery was, that while he objected to acting from any intimidation, he still considered that the employment of machinery which he considered unnecessary to the country, and injurious to the poor, ought to be got rid of.Earl Stanhope
894893892 replied. He had been represented by the noble Lord (King) as having spoken against the Press, but he had done no such thing; what he said was, that he regretted that so powerful an instrument as the public Press, which he admitted was now very ably conducted, should occasionally give currency to opinions which he considered as very injurious. But when he expressed that opinion, he made no attack on the Press, any more than he made an attack on any of their Lordships when he combatted their opinions. He should be very sorry that any such statement should go uncontradicted. He wished also to reply to the statement of the noble Duke, for whom he had a very high respect (Richmond), who had inquired why he had not been present at his motion for a committee last year, that he was then attending the administration of justice in the House, and had not strength to attend twice a day. It was asserted by the noble Duke, that the inquiry now proposed was so extensive as to reach far beyond the bounds within which it would be possible to bring it to a conclusion. He begged leave to say, if that were the case, it was in the power of noble Lords to narrow it; and it might be limited, as had been suggested, to an inquiry into the causes of the distress of agriculture, to which he verily believed all other distress might be attributed. Unless noble Lords said all inquiries were unnecessary, and it was generally admitted that some inquiry was demanded, they ought either to consent to his Motion, limiting it to suit their views, or they ought to shew that no inquiry whatever was necessary. He had felt it his duty to make the Motion, in order to bring the subject under the public view. The noble Earl (Grey) said, that he had brought forward a novel scheme, and proposed to inquire into the abuse of ma-
894893892Lord Wynford
"Let me entreat them to depart from their usual course of awaiting the event: a great and an immediate effort is necessary to burst the cord now drawn so tight around them;—if they hesitate, they will be entangled in such complicated difficulties, that | resistance and escape will soon be alike impossible."845844s.843s.842841l.;840l.,839838837836l.l.835l.l.834833832831830829 said, that in rising to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he felt that this was no ordinary occasion upon which he was about to address their Lordships, and he was afraid, in order to do justice to his subject, that he must trespass on their patience for a longer period than was his general custom. He trusted, however, that he should be able to present to their Lordships such a case, that it would be impossible for them, consistently with the duty which they owed to the country, to refuse the application which he should have the honour to make. He did not at all distrust the merits of the very strong case which he thought he should make out, and he was only afraid, lest, in attempting to do a great deal of good, he should do some evil, by adding to the excitement which unhappily prevailed, to a great extent, throughout the country. He felt a confident hope, however, that nothing which should fall from him would be at all calculated to continue that excitement; on the contrary, he had every expectation, that when the people of this country should come to know, as he hoped the decision of that night would convince them, that their Lordships were determined to do their duty—that they were determined to sift to the bottom the causes of the distress which prevailed in the country, and to exercise
"Let me entreat them to depart from their usual course of awaiting the event: a great and an immediate effort is necessary to burst the cord now drawn so tight around them;—if they hesitate, they will be entangled in such complicated difficulties, that | resistance and escape will soon be alike impossible."845844s.843s.842841l.;840l.,839838837836l.l.835l.l.834833832831830829Lord Wynford
 agreed that the noble Earl had made that explanation.Lord Wynford
 wished it to be understood, that he had not intentionally misrepresented any man, but certainly he had understood the noble Duke to say, that the influence of machinery, in depriving the manual labourer of employment, was a subject worthy of being inquired into, and was a subject beyond the control of the Legislature.Lord Wynford
876l.875874 had, last Session, opposed a motion similar to that then before their Lordships, and would, for the same reasons, now oppose the present Motion. He was as alive as any man who heard him to the distressed state of the country, and had never attempted to extenuate it. But it was absurd to attribute it to any measure of the Administration of which he had been a member, as had been asserted by the noble Earl who had just addressed the House. With respect to the broad censure on the late Government, cast by that noble Earl, he on the part of himself and his colleagues, challenged the noble Earl to come forward and prove, that the distress and disturbance which disfigured many districts of the country were at all owing to any of their measures or their general policy. Let the noble Earl, if he thought so, come forward with a distinct proposition of inquiry, and he promised to meet him. He had last Session opposed a motion, as he had stated, like the present, because he agreed with that noble Earl that it would be prejudicial to the general interests of the country instead of being a benefit; and because it embraced several most important subjects, each of which would require a long and undivided consideration. The noble and learned Lord who proposed the inquiry had pointed out, as topics for investigation our financial and monetary system, our commercial policy, the Poor-laws, the Corn-laws, and the use of machinery, It was impossible for any committee to thoroughly sift all these important questions, or come to any practical decision on them; so that the disappointment of the expectations which its appointment must excite in the public mind, would be ten times more mischievous in its results than the grievance for which it was intended as a remedy. It was not just, besides, to the Ministers who had so recently come into Office, to thus involve them in difficulties from which they could have no time to extricate themselves. He had last Session objected to such a motion, because it would then have involved Ministers in difficulties, and for that reason, in addition to the other reasons on which he had then resisted it, he would, he repeated, vote against the present Motion. Their Lordships had already a committee inquiring into the
876l.875874The Duke of Wellington
958l.l.l. presented a petition which had been voted at a most numerous meeting held of the Vestry of the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch, in the month of June last, complaining of distress, and praying for a reduction of taxes, especially the taxes which pressed most severely upon the poorer orders of the community, such as the house and window taxes, and the taxes upon malt, sugar, &c. The petition further prayed, that the Church lands and tithes should be applied to defray the civil and military expenses of the State. The noble Lord remarked, that this petition was well worthy of the consideration and attention of their Lordships. It had been voted at a very numerous meeting, and it gave a frightful picture of the distress that prevailed in that parish, so far back as the month of June last. It stated that the parish contained 70,000 inhabitants and 7,000 houses; the whole rental amounted to 132,000958l.l.l.The Earl of Radnor
959 was sure, that the noble Lord who had just sat down would have the candour to say, that when he stated) last night, that he would, if he had a seat in the other House, bring forward a motion for a committed of inquiry to ascertain whether it was fit to impeach the persons who had served his Majesty in the late Administration, — the noble Lord would surely have the candour to allow, that when he made that statement, he did not advert to the distress which existed in the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch, or in any parish in the kingdom, or in all of them together. What the noble Lord then said was, that the country was in a difficult and dangerous situation—that the Government which succeeded the late Administration had found the country involved in a difficult and dangerous situation, and that the Members of the late Administration were responsible for that, and they ought to be impeached for it. He had said in answer to that statement at. the time, and he should now repeat it, that he called upon the noble Lord to bring forward a distinct charge against his Majesty's late Administration, and he should be ready to meet it, and defend his Majesty's late Government against whatever charge the noble Lord might think proper to prefer against them. The noble Lord now brought forward a petition from the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch, and he made a statement, not founded on the petition, but upon the assertions of a nameless person, whose assertions he backed with his authority; and he then said, that his Majesty's late Government was responsible for the distress which existed in that parish in the month of June last. For himself he had stated before, and he would repeat it, that he never could, or would, make himself responsible for any act that was not his own, or for any thing which it was not his duty to see put to rights. He would
959The Duke of Wellington
 maintained that the cause of the distress which prevailed now, was only to be found in the measures of that House, which had refused to inquire into the distresses of the people. That distress had existed for a long time, it existed throughout the country, and had been frequently, both by him and other noble Lords, brought under their Lordships' notice. The distress was not the consequence of local but general causes, and he was extremely sorry to find that the present Ministry had adopted the views of the late Ministry, and meant to refuse inquiry. He had been informed by a dignitary of the Established Church, resident in Sussex, that the resistance offered by the Ministry last night to the motion of the noble and learned Lord would occasion great disappointment and be most calamitous in its results. In his opinion he coincided, and would on no account take on himself the responsibility the Ministry had incurred by refusing to grant the inquiry moved for.Earl Stanhope
960 said, that no such preposterous charge had been preferred against the noble Duke by the noble Earl (Radnor), as that he, when Minister, should have superintended the management of the Poor-laws in any particular parish. What the noble Lord had said was, that the cause of timely relief not being afforded, was ascribable to the noble
960Lord King
 said, that the noble Lord lay under a complete mistake as to the reduction which had been made in the taxes. That reduction was made in consequence of the repeated reductions of expenditure which had been effected in the course of three consecutive Sessions of Parliament, and in consequence of the great reduction, amounting actually to more than a million sterling, which had been made in the interest of the National Debt. That reduction in the interest of the National Debt was effected in the last Session of Parliament; but until it was completed, it was impossible for the Government to make any reductions in the taxes, nor could they decide which it was their duty to reduce; and that duty was not performed until the moment came for making the reductions.The Duke of Wellington
 did not think that he was at all mistaken as to the cause which had compelled the late Ministers to effect such a reduction of the taxes. There was nothing of which people in such a situation as the late Ministers filled were so fond of as a large margin, and he was sure that the noble Duke would have kept the large margin if he could, and that he would have employed it against those "deplorable events" of which the noble Duke had spoken last night, if it had not been taken from him. He was convinced that the noble Duke would have kept the large margin if he could, and that, if he had remained in power, he would in that case have done something against those events which he had last night so much lamented.Lord King
961 said, it was extraordinary that the noble Lord should persist in an assertion which he must
961The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, that the course which his Majesty's late Ministers had pursued, in doing every thing to prevent inquiry into the distresses of the people, had met with the reprobation of every well-wisher to the country. If an inquiry had been granted last Session, he was of opinion that the present disturbed state of the country would not have existed at this moment, and he would assert, that in that case the spirit of disaffection which existed amongst the great body of the people towards the Legislature of the country, for turning a deaf ear to their complaints, would not be in existence. Such he was certain would have been the good effects which we should now witness if the Legislature had then entered upon an inquiry into the distresses and grievances of the people. He denied that the present Ministers were taking the same course as that followed by the late Ministers, for they had already granted an inquiry into the state of the Poor-laws, which inquiry he firmly believed would be productive of great advantage to the country, and they had pledged themselves to apply their attention to the state of the country generally. He must say, that he had been quite convinced by the arguments used by the noble Earl (Grey) last night, against the expediency of the kind of inquiry which was then called for.The Earl of Winchilsea
962 said, that the question at issue last Session was, whether the distress was partial, as had been alleged by Ministers, or whether it was general, as it really was, and as every one out of doors believed it to be. Though he supported the Motion for inquiry last Session, he did not deem it at all inconsistent, under existing circumstances, to oppose the Motion made last night for inquiry. That Motion went to a full inquiry into every interest of the State, and it was made when Parliament was about to rise for the recess, when one
962The Marquis of Clanricarde
 explained. The difference between the late and the present Administration was this,—that the late Administration refused inquiry, and denied the existence of distress, while the present Administration admitted the existence of distress, and said that they would apply their minds to find a remedy for it, while, at the same time, they granted a committee of inquiry into the state of the Poor-laws. The noble Duke had said again to-night, that he (the Earl of Radnor) might bring a specific charge against the late Ministers if he chose. He, however, would repeat what he had said last night, that he should do no such thing; for that his only object in bringing such a charge would be, to remove the noble Duke and his colleagues from power, and that, fortunately, was already done. As to the intention of the late Ministers to reduce taxation, since the noble Duke and the noble Earl below him had declared that they had positive knowledge of such intention, independent of the cry of distress that was raised, he certainly, without any knowledge upon the subject, could not assert that no such intention existed. However, the general belief of the country was, that the Ministers were forced into those reductions by the cry that was raised in the other House; and if such intention existed, he could only say, that the deplorable prospect presented to them at the opening of the Session was the more remarkable. Besides, nothing could be more astonishing, with this view of the subject, than the lamentable exhibition which the Chancellor of the Exchequer made last Session—nearly all the financial measures except the Beer-bill having failed or been withdrawn: and if, therefore, the Ministers had really matured their plans, and could, nevertheless, make no better appearance than they did make, the country had another reason to rejoice at the removal of those Ministers.The Earl of Radnor
l.963 said, that he had voted against the committee last night, and against the committee proposed while he was in the Government for the
l.963The Duke of Wellington
nostrumnostrum964 thought, that the case of the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch— which was a parish peculiarly situated— had nothing to do with the charge which the noble Earl (Radnor) had brought last
nostrumnostrum964Lord Wharncliffe
965 presented a petition against the continuance of Negro Slavery; and in doing so took the opportunity of referring to the proposition he had made on a former night, that a Committee of their Lordships should go out to the West-India Islands, in order to furnish the House with the best information upon the question of negro slavery, before they undertook to legislate upon it. Before he made that proposition he had had no communication whatever with anybody upon the subject. He had no West-India property, he never had had any, and he never expected to have any; but still he felt interested on the subject, from the knowledge of the colonies which his professional life had given him. Since he
965Lord Napier
cries of "No, no," from Earl Stanhope969968967Hear! from Earl Stanhope. said, I am fully sensible, my Lords, as well from experience here as elsewhere, how very inconvenient a long, tiresome, and somewhat irregular discussion must always be,—and in spite, my Lords, even of the charms of the noble Earl's eloquence, I cannot help regretting the time we have lost in the late discussion. Your Lordships may he perfectly secure, therefore, that I shall not give rise to another such, but I am sure your Lordships will agree that I could not help rising, after the very pointed allusion which the noble Earl has made to me. The noble Earl has, in a very good-humoured manner, alluded to what he considers a most extraordinary paradox. [cries of "No, no," from Earl Stanhope969968967Hear! from Earl Stanhope.The Lord Chancellor
966 did not rise to oppose the motion for laying this petition on the Table, but merely to make a suggestion in accordance with that thrown out by the noble Lord who had just taken his seat. The suggestion was, that if the committee mentioned by the noble Lord should be appointed, the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack was of all others the most fitted to be sent out as its chairman. He made that proposal because, if he remembered rightly, that noble and learned Lord, in the very first speech which he made in that House, declared most solemnly, that one of the two questions which he considered to be of paramount importance was that of the abolition of slavery. It was not, therefore, improbable that the noble and learned Lord
966Earl Stanhope
ll1028lll1027l1026Leave not a wreck behind."" Like the baseless fabric of a vision,10251024l said, that in rising to make a Motion pursuant to notice which he had given on Friday evening last, he would take that opportunity (as the Adjournment of the House was now near at hand) of submitting to their Lordships a few observations relative to transactions of some importance in the present state of the country. He thought it right to state, that he had had no communication on those subjects with any Members of his Majesty's Government, and that his remarks had none of the weight of official authority. It would be in the recollection of their Lordships that when a return of certain salaries and payments above l,000ll1028lll1027l1026Leave not a wreck behind."" Like the baseless fabric of a vision,10251024lEarl Grosvenor
llllll1030l1029 did not think it necessary to occupy the House by following the noble Earl in detail through ail the observations which he (Earl Gros-
llllll1030l1029The Marquis of Lansdown
l1032ll1031 said, that the delay in the appointment to the vacant offices, before the resignation of the late Administration, had been occasioned by their intention to reduce the salaries. With respect to the recently-granted pensions, to which a question of the noble Earl opposite had reference, their Lordships were aware that a considerable sum was always granted to his Majesty, to enable him to confer pensions upon those who were deserving: true it was, that the Civil List expired with the King; and it was also true, that at the time of the last demise of the Crown there was a considerable number of vacancies in the list of pensioners. He rather believed, that the more regular course would have been, not to have recommended his present Majesty to make any new grants out of the Civil List until the Act should have passed regulating its amount; but the custom unquestionably had been, to recommend
l1032ll1031The Duke of Wellington
 said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the noble Earl (Grey), his experience of Ireland justified him in saying, that political and judicial office, in the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, ought not to be united. The great advantage which resulted from the appointment of Sir Anthony Hart consisted in its being well known that he was in no degree connected with any political party. No one that he was now addressing could, any more than himself, entertain any doubt as to the eminent abilities and acquirements of Lord Plunkett; but then Lord Plunkett was considered to be opposed to the political views of certain persons in Ireland, and those persons were some of the most zealous friends of the British connexion. In the north of Ireland there was a large number of persons, who would at one time have shed the last drop of their blood in the maintenance of British connexions; but these persons were now fast approximating to the views of those who thought that the union between the two countries was prejudicial to Ireland. For his own part, every one, he was sure, must see that he was led, as well by his principles as by his interest, to. consider the repeal of the Union as the most prejudicial measure for both countries. He should, therefore, oppose that project to the utmost of his power, and he thought he was not going too far when he said, he was sure that every respectable man in Ireland would use his most strenuous exertions to prevent the success of the project; but if the appointment of Lord Plunkett could by possibility make any converts to the friends of the repeal of the Union, he was justified in lamenting that such an appointment should have taken place.Lord Farnham
10401039 perfectly concurred with the
10401039Earl Grey
1041 said, that the appointment of Sir Anthony Hart having originated with him, he might offer a few words in explanation, of the motives which had induced him to name him for the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland. It arose exclusively from the view he took, or rather which Mr. Canning, his predecessor, had taken, of the extreme embarrassment of Ireland, by the non-settlement of the Catholic question. He felt that this mode of disposing of the office of Lord Chancellor of Ireland would afford some chance of mitigating the evil of the system. He never dreamt of recommending such a course as a permanent principle, adherence to which would be attended with the greatest possible inconvenience. Thank God, the immediate cause of discontent had been removed, and such being the case, it seemed to him that the choice of Lord Plunkett was well advised; that
1041Viscount Goderich
 was convinced, that the present Administration, if they had a fair trial given them, would be found most favourable to the Protestant interest of Ireland. As an Irishman he felt it his duty to state this conviction, and to say, that he should give the present Administration all the support in his power, because, if they redeemed the pledges they had made, they would deserve support. He could not concur with the noble Lord (Farnham) in the opinion that the appointment of Lord Plunkett would be considered in Ireland as a manifestation of hostility or indifference, on the part of Government, to the Protestant interest of that country.The Earl of Gosford
 said, that he had called for these explanations, in order that an authorized contradiction might be given to the false and malicious rumours which were so industriously circulated. The very satisfactory explanations, for such he was sure their Lordships would consider them, which the noble Earl had given, proved that it was not necessary that he should have communicated to the noble Earl the topics to which he intended to call the attention of the House.Earl Grosvenor
prœmunire,11121111s.,s.,s.s.s1110 having to present a Petition from the inhabitants of Southampton, complaining of the grievances under which the country at present suffered, would make a few observations, which he would be unwilling to make, if he did not see in their places noble Lords to whom some allegations of the petitioners had reference. The complaints concerning the Tithes were now as general and as earnest as were formerly those complaints of taxation, which were said by a noble Lord, now no more, to originate in "an ignorant impatience." However light that noble Lord then made of those complaints, their frequency and vehemence at last effected a reduction of taxes, to the amount of more than seventeen millions. He believed that the prevailing spirit of complaint, which might, perhaps, be said to arise from "an ignorant impatience" of desolation, could not fail to bring about a similar reduction of the tithes. It was known that the farmers generally had not made much exertion to prevent the recent outrages, and it was also known, that their disinclination to interfere was occasioned by the pressure of their own burthens, of which the tithes constitute a principal part. Aware of the extent of such dissatisfaction, a reverend Prelate had last year brought before their Lordships a bill for the commutation of tithes. There was a time when such a measure might have removed the discontent, but now it would be ineffectual. Twenty years ago Mr. Pitt had devised a plan for the permanent commutation of tithes into three per cent stock; and now some measure, equally comprehensive and effectual, must be adopted. All lovers of abuses could find out something of good to be attributed to every abuse, however gross, except to tithes. They said that the Corn-laws worked well—that Colonial Slavery worked well—and that corrupt Parliaments and heavy Taxation worked well—but none of them would go so far as to pretend that tithes worked well.
prœmunire,11121111s.,s.,s.s.s1110Lord King
 was sure that the House would not expect him to follow the noble Lord through all the topics which he had introduced into his attack upon Deans, Prebends, and Tithes. In reply, however, to what the noble Lord had said respecting a bill which he had had the honour of proposing to their Lordships, he (the Archbishop of Canterbury) had to state, that a similar bill would be laid before their Lordships in the course of the present Session; from which he hoped more happy results would be derived than the noble Lord seemed to anticipate.The Archbishop of Canterbury
ll1114lpari passu.1113 said, that the noble Lord (King) had stated, with truth, that repeated and vehement attacks had of late been made upon the system of tithes. Why that sort of property should be attacked more than other property in land, which, as well as tithes, was possessed only by virtue of the laws, he (the Bishop of London) could not explain, unless it were because the clergy, of whom they were the property, were the weaker party. No man could be more firmly convinced than he was of the claims of the country, in its present state, on the consideration of their Lordships. He knew, from many years experience as a parochial clergyman, that the agricultural labourers generally were suffering under great distress; which, however, was attributable, not to the tithe-system, but to the un-
ll1114lpari passu.1113The Bishop of London
pari passupari passu denied, that he had charged the Church of England with excessive rigour in the exaction of tithes; but he had said, that the claims of the clergy were enforced frequently with more rigour than those of the landlords. He believed that the clergy of the Church of England did collect its revenues more rigorously than the clergy of any Catholic country. As to what the right rev. Prelate had said respecting the tithes going on pari passupari passuLord King
1115 thought it but justice to the clergy to declare, that in his transactions as landowner with the receivers of tithes, he had always found the ecclesiastical proprietors much less rigorous than the lay impropriators. The noble Baron was wrong in supposing that the Scotch Church was regulated in the time of King William; the particular settlement
1115The Marquis of Bute
1119v.1118bonâ fidebonâ fide said, he rose, according to the notice which he had given last night, to introduce a Bill for the purpose of regulating what was called the Landlord's right of Hypothec in Scotland; or, in other words, the landlord's right over the produce of the tenant's land, after it legally quits the possession of the tenant. The Bill had been made necessary by a judgment of the Court of Session in Scotland, which at his suggestion their Lordships affirmed. That judgment was founded upon a Scotch law, which had become almost obsolete. The law of Scotland, in the particular referred to, differed widely from the law of England. Their Lordships were aware that in England, if the tenant owed his landlord rent, and took away his. produce clandestinely, or for the purpose of concealing it, the landlord had a right to follow the produce. But if the tenant owing an arrear of rent took his corn to the open market, and made a 1119v.1118bonâ fidebonâ fideThe Lord Chancellor
ll1117 said, that his opinions were, perhaps, not materially different from those of the noble Lord, but in the short interval since he had taken Office, it had not been possible for him to advert, in detail, to the subject. That it well deserved consideration he was of all men the least likely to deny; for, although he had himself no
ll1117Earl Grey
s.s.lls.s.s.s.,1116s. rose, pursuant to notice, to present a Petition from the Lord Mayor and Corporation of the City of London, for the repeal of the Duty on Sea-borne Coals. That subject had come before their Lordships in two successive Sessions; and a committee of the House of Commons had been occupied with it. He was desirous to press upon his Majesty's Ministers, that if they found themselves enabled to diminish any part of the public burthens, the tax of which the petitioners complained especially merited their consideration. He would not hesitate to say, that no other tax was more unjust in principle, or more mischievous in operation. It enhanced the value of an universal necessary of life to the counties, which, being most distant from the place of its production, would receive it with greater difficulty, and at heavier expense, than those counties which were altogether exempt from that tax, to which they were subjected, and which to them amounted almost to a prohibition from the use of that necessary. The characteristics of the duty on coals were, that it was a tax upon industry—and upon a necessary of life— and at the same time unequal and partial in its operation. He did not know by what principle the imposition of this impolitic tax had been regulated. Perhaps it was for the purpose of enabling the English to compete with the Scotch collieries, that coals to any part of Scotland were exempt from the duty, whilst those to any part of the eastern coast of England paid 6s.s.lls.s.s.s.,1116s.Lord Wharncliffe
1183 presented Petitions from Linlithgow, Hamilton, in the County of Lanark, and a third from another place in Scotland, all in favour of Reform in Parliament. He fully agreed with the prayers of these petitioners. He was glad to have the honour of laying them before their Lordships; and he could assure their Lordships, they were the fore-runners of many others. He should not have made one observation in presenting them, had it not been said in another place, that the people of Edinburgh wanted no Reform in Parliament. That
1183The Duke of Hamilton
1202 had a Petition to present to their Lordships, on a very important subject, respecting which his opinions were quite at variance with those of the petitioners. When the measure of which they complained—the Union of Great Britain and Ireland, was under the consideration of the British Legislature —he was opposed to it; because he did not wish the corruptions of England to be increased by those of Ireland. But he now feared, that it would be a mischievous experiment to repeal that measure after such a lapse of time. He believed that Ireland would suffer greatly from the separation of the two countries, the more so as they could be separated only by means of war, and to that a repeal of the Union would certainly lead. If he were an Irishman, he might perhaps be induced to consult his national feelings, in opposition to his judgment. But although he knew little of Ireland himself, and from what he did know, he believed its condition to be very wretched; yet he had heard that there had recently appeared there some signs of improvement, to which the repeal, desired by petitioners, would put a stop, by immediately checking the introduction of English capital. If the Union were repealed, Ireland would lose the present
1202Lord King
 concurred fully in the opinions expressed by the noble Lord who had just addressed their Lordships; but he had differed from that noble Lord when the Act of Union was passed, for he (Earl Darnley) had advocated that measure, in the expectation that benefits to Ireland would result from it, which he had not yet had the happiness to witness. However, he believed that the good effects would now be soon observed, as the healing measure which the Legislature had most wisely adopted in the last Session had removed the chief obstacles to the improvement of that country. He was convinced that the repeal of the Union would annihilate the incipient prosperity of Ireland. The individual who at present agitated that question had derived his importance from the injudicious attempt which had been made to exclude him from the other Mouse of Parliament. No calamity could be more destructive to the country of that individual than his efforts, should they be successful, in repealing the Union.Earl Darnley
1203 moved for various Returns respecting the parishes which had agreed to a Composition of Tithes in Ireland, under the late Act of Parliament on that subject. He explained, that the operation of that Act was greatly impeded by the manner in which the Select Vestries for settling the composition of tithes were constituted. The land of many parishes in Ireland was
1203Lord Farnham
1204410££
410££21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.
21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.
0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.
21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
410££
410££21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.
21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.
0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.
21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.Varney Cooney, to Archdeacon Magee, debtor Out of the Lands of Grange, had no doubt, that if the tithe composition Act were carried into effect in Ireland upon fair terms, it would operate greatly to the advantage of the poorer classes, who would get rid of tithe Gatherers and Proctors, and the whole harassing and expensive machinery for the recovery of those vexatious claims. He held in his hands documents respecting the tithes in six parishes of the county of Wicklow, of which the names were to him unpronounceable, occupying a surface of upwards of 40,000 acres. In those parishes a meeting of 4,000 farmers was assembled to make a composition with Archdeacon Magee. The venerable Archdeacon not agreeing with the parishioners, resorted not to the Consistory Court, but to the Court of Exchequer, as affording the most expensive process for the recovery of his tithes. He would read to their Lordships an account, furnished by the Archdeacon to one of those farmers:—
1204410££
410££21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.
21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.
0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.
21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
410££
410££21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.
21013s.Tithe of 193 brls. of Oats at 15s.0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.
0413s.Tithe of 88 brls. of Wheat at 30s.21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.
21515s.Tithe of 197 brls. of Barley at 16s.101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.
101££s.To Tithe of 47 tons of Hay at 30s.Varney Cooney, to Archdeacon Magee, debtor Out of the Lands of Grange,Lord King
 presented a Petition from the Magistrates and Town Council, and principal Merchants of the City of Glasgow, praying that precautionary measures might be adopted before the Legislature should determine to abolish Slavery in the Colonies. The noble Marquis said, that although the petition which he had the honour to present, was of a different prayer to most of those which had been laid before their Lordships, yet it would be unjust to term it a petition in favour of slavery. The petitioners stated that the inhabitants of Glasgow had, from their intercourse with the West-Indies, opportunities which few others possessed, of knowing the true condition of slaves in the colonies, and although they by no means advocated the perpetuation of negro slavery, they were convinced that great mischief would be occasioned by a rash and sudden abolition.—To lie on the Table.The Marquis of Lansdown
1205 in the absence of his noble friend (Lord Lyndhurst), rose to move their Lordships' concurrence to some Amendments which had been made in the Regency Bill, in the House of Commons. One of them was, the making provision for a case, which certainly had not been overlooked by his noble friend in the drawing up of the Bill, but which had been, in his opinion, properly rejected by him. The Amendment was contrary to the scheme and constitution of the Bill; and it provided for a state of things which, in the opinion of the noble Lord, and in his own, could very well be provided for when the exigency itself arrived. It was to the effect that, in case her present Majesty should die, and his Majesty marry again, the Bill should expire and be invalid. Now that was a case which could not come on by surprise; and a death and a marriage of such elevated persons were not likely to happen in twenty-four hours, and therefore time must be given for legislation. Still, the Amendment had been made in the other House; and though it was an instance of care and over-anxiety, more than of necessity, still, for the sake
1205The Lord Chancellor,
 said, that another Amendment had been made, by the substitution of the words "Roman Catholic," for "Papist," as the latter had been considered as a term offensive to some persons of that persuasion. He hoped their Lordships would have no objection to the Amendment; and he was understood to say, that it would have been made at an earlier period, if a noble Duke, a member of that faith, had thought it worth while to have the alteration made.The Marquis of Lansdown
 presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Ward of Aldgate, in the City of London, praying for Reform in Parliament, and for the Repeal of the Assessed Faxes. He agreed with the petitioners as to the necessity of reform and retrenchment; and he would take that opportunity of saying that he gave the Ministers his support, with perfect confidence that they would act according to their declarations on those subjects. Much had been said on the question of Reform, to which he was as favourably disposed as any man in the House; so favourably, indeed, that on the very first time he took his seat, he had declared, with more zeal than discretion, that he never would give his support to any Administration which opposed that measure: and he, therefore, was glad that the time had arrived when he could give an Administration, pledged to reform, his general support. As long as the present Ministers acted up to their professions he would support them, and he had the fullest confidence that they meant to carry their promises into effect.Lord Suffield
1291 said, he rose to present several petitions upon the distresses of the country, and upon the subject of Reform. Some of these petitions were from Scotland, and some from England, but they all concurred in demanding cheap government, cheap law, cheap corn, cheap coals, a free trade, and a reform in Parliament. These summed up made the six great wants of the country at the present moment. There was something peculiar in one of the petitions from Scotland, to which he would presently advert. The first petition was from Ashfield, Nottingham, and it prayed for a Reform of all abuses in Church and State—a pretty extensive latitude of petitioning. The next was from Saffron-hill, and it was against the Assessed taxes. The next petition was from Scotland, and he would say, that if it were acknowledged that there were faults in the representation of England, all who made the acknowledgment must confess that the representation of Scotland
1291Lord King
 said, that after the specimen which the noble Baron had given of the language of the petition, he thought it necessary to move that the petition be read at length.The Earl of Haddington
 requested his noble Friend to consent to withdraw the petition. He had no wish to impede the practice of petitioning that House, and much less did he wish to throw any obstacle in the way of receiving the present petition, as it was the first of the sort that had as yet been received from a Scotch county; but he objected to the language of the petition, and he trusted that his noble friend would consent to withdraw it.The Earl of Haddington
1292 did not think the petition of so objectionable a nature that he was authorized to withdraw it. The petition had been agreed to at a county meeting. It
1292Lord King
 did not see any reason why the petition should not be received by their Lordships. That was not the time to discuss questions of reform; and, therefore, he would say nothing on the subject, but as to the petition, as it came from a county of Scotland, and there was nothing very objectionable in its language, he for one would vote that it be received.Lord Ellenborough
 would not wish to press the petition against the views of the noble Earl, and he would therefore consent to withdraw it.Lord King
1294 concurred with the noble Earl that it was not the duty of the House to throw impediments in the way of petitions coming from Scotland or else where: but certainly a petition which called on their Lordships "to counsel the people to resist the other House of Parliament" could not be well received. There was a growing feeling in favour of reform in Scotland, particularly in the manufacturing districts; but the agricultural districts were as yet not affected by any strong feelings; and in those districts, at least, men's minds had not been drawn much to the subject. He could not, therefore, help thinking that the picture drawn of the state of feeling by a noble Lord near him was nearly or quite as much overcharged, as it had been undercharged by those who took the contrary side. Whatever the case might be in the manufacturing districts, in the country parts there was nothing like the same extensive feeling of reform which he thought, and, in his opinion, unhappily, existed in England. For his part he believed the old system worked well; and, though there were anomalies in it, perhaps it was the better on that account. At least the old system contented the people of England down to a late period; but any man must be stricken with more than judicial blindness who did not see that the mind of the country was changed on the subject, and that the question must be discussed until it
1294The Earl of Haddington
 said, that although the schoolmaster was abroad, yet the language in the petition was far from being that which was becoming the freeholders of a great Scotch county; but still he thought that considering the language used in that House, and in the other House, and in the petitions presented, and at public meetings, that a little more latitude might be given in the present case. He hoped, as the petition was withdrawn, that some one would suggest to those who were to send another in its stead, either here or to the other House, that it would be well to embody in the latter a recommendation to the election committees of the House to investigate the cases of alleged misconduct then before it, as they might be thereby enabled to give Ministers an opportunity of affording to large towns that representation to which it was admitted they were entitled.The Earl of Fife
 in presenting a Petition of a similar nature from Perth, denied that the Scotch system of representation worked well for the people of Scotland; though it certainly worked well for those who enjoyed the monopoly of it, and who possessed thereby the power of laying on the taxes. He denied that the object of those who called for Reform was revolution, and he maintained, that the enlisting of the middle classes in the cause of Reform was the best and only security against revolution in the present character of the times.Lord King
 explained, that his remark as to the working well of the present system of representation was not applied to Scotland particularly, but was applied to the general system of representation throughout the empire.The Earl of Haddington
 Hear, hear," from Lord King.1295 denied, that the people of Scotland felt themselves oppressed or degraded, When he heard
 Hear, hear," from Lord King.1295The Marquis of Bute
 concurred with the noble Lord (Ellenborough) in the opinion that this was not the proper occasion for discussing the question of Reform. At the same time he wished to state, that he always felt convinced, that there was much in the representation of the people in the other House of Parliament which required reform. He was persuaded that the question of Reform could not now be evaded or delayed. He would advise his noble friend at the head of his Majesty's Government, and their Lordships, not to refrain, through the fear of going too far, from doing that which was necessary to satisfy the public mind in this eventful crisis. He was sure that their Lordships would have more to answer for than any other persons in the empire, if they did not satisfy the public expectations upon the question of Reform. To effect that there must be some sacrifices, and he was confident they would not satisfy the public expectations if the direct nomination of Members of the House of Commons by Peers were not taken away.The Earl of Darnley
1296 wished to put a question to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, with regard to the Norfolk Circuit. That Circuit had experienced considerable and singular inconvenience for some years, owing to the circumstance of only one Judge of
1296Lord Calthorpe
12981297 said, that the subject adverted to by the noble Lord was certainly one of great importance; and, undoubtedly, serious inconvenience had been felt for many years from the want of two Judges going the Norfolk Circuit in Spring and Autumn. He (the Lord Chancellor) was one of those who deeply regretted such an inconvenience, and who only submitted to it from the necessity of the case, there being too few Judges to do the business of the country. Twelve Judges had been long considered sufficient; but now that three additional Judges had been appointed by his Majesty's late Government, with the sanction of the whole profession, and in conformity with the wishes of the public, there was no pretence whatever that only one Judge should go the Norfolk circuit. He saw no reason why it should not be otherwise: perhaps some persons better acquainted with the matter might think that the old arrangement should continue, but for his part, he (the Lord Chancellor) could not discover the shadow of a reason why the evil complained of should not be remedied. Two of the additional Judges would be allotted to the new circuit which had been made, and one would be thus left unappropriated. Now, he would say, and the person who held the Great Seal had usually a voice in such a matter, that it would be better that two Judges should go the Norfolk Spring Circuit, and that for that purpose the additional Judge left unappropriated should be selected. He was of opinion, that it was not seemly that either the Norfolk circuit or the Midland circuit, should have one Judge assisted by a Serjeant or some other makeshift, when the country had now provided individuals of the highest legal attainments and character. He might, perhaps, be permitted to take that opportunity to advert to some suggestions which he understood had been thrown out elsewhere, respecting certain appointments vested in the hands of the Lord Chancellor.
12981297The Lord Chancellor
 thought that the petition might have been better worded. He was always extremely unwilling to take harsh or illiberal measures with respect to petitions, and in the present case he was very unwilling to object to the petition, but he could not but consider it improper for any petitioners to urge their Lordships to advise the people to resist the other House of Parliament as a body of representatives illegally and unconstitutionally chosen. This, in his opinion, was going rather beyond the usual language of petitions, and he should object to receiving it, on the ground that it called upon their Lordships to give advice to the people to exert a resistance to legal authority. He did hope that his noble friend would adopt the suggestion that had been thrown out, and withdraw the petition.Earl Grey
 as a proof that the people of Scotland were not well represented, stated, that a few years ago the Lord Advocate and a majority of the Scotch Representatives voted against the removal of a stigma upon the Presbyterians.Lord Duncan,
 would bear testimony to the increasing anxiety of the people of Scotland upon the subject of reform. The sense of the absolute necessity of a reform was gaining ground rapidly amongst every class of people throughout Scotland. The whole thirty county Members of Scotland were elected by less than 3,000 voters. The boroughs in Scotland were in a much worse condition than the counties with respect to the representation, and even for Edinburgh, which contained 130,000, the Member was returned by only thirty-three voters. Since the last census, the population of Scotland had much increased; and, taking the lower and middling orders of society throughout the country, there was as much information as in the same class of any population throughout Europe; and he would put it to their Lordships whether it was possible that such a people could be blind to their absolute degradation, under the present system of returning Members to Parliament. The people of Scotland, it was true, had hitherto been silent upon the subject, but let not noble Lords imagine that it was the silence of apathy, for it had been that of hopelessness and despair. His Majesty, most fortunately for the safety of the country, had been pleased to put at the head of the Government, a nobleman long celebrated for his wisdom, as well as for being the friend of reform; and this fact had revived the wishes of Scotland, which had previously been dormant. He would avow that he had confidence in the noble Earl's intention to effect a reform; and he knew that before many weeks their Lordships' Table would be covered with petitions from Scotland in support of that measure.Lord Duncan
 presented a Petition from the Magistracy and Town Council of Linlithgow, for Reform. He could not resist that opportunity of stating to the House the conviction, which a residence in Scotland had impressed upon him—namely, that there could be no greater mistake than to suppose, that the people of that country did not feel a strong desire for an improvement in their representation. It might be true, that hitherto there had been no expression of public opinion on the subject of reform in Scotland, but the silence of the people arose from two circumstances—first, from an idea that the cause of reform was hopeless; and, secondly, from the conviction that, defective as was the representation of Scotland, the constitution of the English part of the House of Commons was such as to remedy a portion of the evil. But now that reform had been taken up by those best fitted to carry it through with success (his Majesty's Ministers), the number of petitions proceeding from Scotland proved that there was no indifference on the subject in that country. In fact the subject was taken up from one end of the country to the other. The petition prayed, not only for reform, but also for a reduction of taxation, particularly of the assessed taxes. The noble Lord presented a petition to the same effect from the in habitants of Linlithgow.The Earl of Rosebery
1344l.s.,1343on1342de lunatico inquirendo,1341l. said, he proposed to move for a Return of considerable importance, viz. the number of Lunatics now under the care of the Lord Chancellor, with the date of the inquisition, the sums ordered for their maintenance, and an Estimate of the total value of their estates; and seeing a noble and learned Lord, who had given the matter a great deal of attention, having long presided with great advantage in the Court of Chancery, in his place, he felt anxious to state, in a few words, the reasons which induced him to move for the return. It was, doubtless, within the knowledge of their Lordships, that the number of persons labouring under mental disease, who were subjects of the care of the individual holding the Great Seal for the time being, was always very considerable: he might state the average number of lunatics under the protection of the Court of Chancery at 400. The returns which had been made out showed it. Those individuals had all more or less property, which was taken possession of by the Court, for the benefit of the lunatics, (should they recover), or their heirs, and managed by individuals, generally near relatives, called committees, under the control of the Court of Chancery. Out of the estates, according to the known practice of the Court, allowances were made for the support and care of the lunatics, who generally amounted, as he had before stated, to an average number of 400: the allowances also averaged a large amount, 136,0001344l.s.,1343on1342de lunatico inquirendo,1341l.The Lord Chancellor
vice versâ. said, that there was a tendency to suppose, whether right or wrong, that all medical men who devoted themselves exclusively to cases of insanity, and who kept asylums, had a prejudice in favour of making people insane. What he meant was, that they were apt to imagine and see insanity where other people saw none. The proper course to take would be, to constitute the commission of three persons, one to be of one sort, and two of the other, or vice versâ.The Lord Chancellor
13471346d.l.,l." Distress in the Swan River Settlement.1346d.l.,l." Distress in the Swan River Settlement.The Morning Chronicle,The Morning Chronicle, rose, to call the attention of the House to the subject of the Swan River Settlement, and to put a question to the noble Secretary for the Colonies, relative to the condition of that Settlement. An extract of a letter on the condition of the settlement had appeared in 13471346d.l.,l." Distress in the Swan River Settlement.1346d.l.,l." Distress in the Swan River Settlement.The Morning Chronicle,The Morning Chronicle,Lord Teynham
1348 observed, in reply, that the Government had every reason to believe that the imputations on those who had established the settlement on the Swan River were not. founded in justice. It was not his intention at present to enter upon a discussion of the comparative merits of the systems of foreign and domestic colonization, nor did he mean to pronounce which was the better plan—to promote emigration, or to employ the peasantry in cultivating these fifteen millions of acres of waste land. But with regard to the particular question put to him by the noble Lord, he had to answer, that, as far as he was informed, it was not at present the intention of his Majesty's Government to abandon the Swan River Settlement. If the Government could rely on the last authentic accounts which they had received from the settlement, there was every prospect of its being- a very useful establishment, and one which
1348Lord Goderich
1349 expressed surprise, that Government should not have been able to procure information of so late a date as that which had been obtained by private individuals. Some of these had received information of so late a date as the 4th of May last, and it was singular that the Government alone should be uninformed. Some of these accounts stated, that there were no lands fit for cultivation beyond certain mountains mentioned; and that the people were suffering very considerably. He hoped that the Government would give directions to afford some relief to those who were suffering from the effects
1349Lord Teynham
 observed, that the information to which the noble Lord had alluded, as having been obtained by private individuals, was not direct from the Swan River; but from other quarters,; which probably came from the Swan River, if it came at all, at a much earlier period than the information received by the Government. As to the first part of the noble Lord's Motion, there could be no objection to it, and he would only add to it, that the communication from Governor Stirling to Sir George Murray, dated the 20th of January last, be laid on the Table.Lord Goderich
bona fide said, that one of the clauses related to bona fideThe Lord Chancellor
 said, that in rising-to move the first reading of the Bill, he should very briefly state the reasons out of which it had arisen. About eight or nine days ago a letter was received from the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, stating, that no new commissions of the peace had been issued since the demise of the Crown, and that it was out of his power to issue them without the order of the Executive Government; and as the Government was now in the hands of the Lords Justices, of whom he was one, he could not in one capacity issue an order which he was himself to execute in another. The commissions would all expire on the 26th instant, and it was necessary to introduce the Bill to remedy the inconveniences he had pointed out.Earl Grey
1345 was understood to say, that the noble Lord on the Woolsack had altogether proceeded on the mistake of supposing, that the Court of Chancery had the management and jurisdiction over lunatics. The subject was managed by a Special Commission from the Crown, generally issued, indeed, to the person holding the Great Seal; and, it happened, on account of the facilities which the Court of Chancery possessed for the management of property, that this jurisdiction could not be placed in better hands than in those of the Lord Chancellor. The jurisdiction over the persons of lunatics did not he with the Lord Chancellor by virtue of his office. He should not, however, offer any opposition, or make any objection to the further inquiry into the state of such unhappy persons. He was sorry, very sorry to say, that their numbers had greatly increased since he had taken the Seals, and he would take upon himself to say, that if his conduct were to be examined into with respect to his discharge of this part of his duty, it would be found to have been influenced solely by an anxious desire to benefit the parties labouring under such a state of affliction. He could assure the noble Lord upon the Woolsack, that he would give all the assistance he possibly could to the improvement of the situation of persons under the unhappy circumstances of lunacy, and no man would be more ready to promote the views of the noble and learned Lord than himself. The noble Lord on the Woolsack might command his time and attention to further his object; and he would say, that he was as ready to give his time for such a purpose as any man upon earth. It would, however, be necessary to proceed with the utmost caution in treating the subject, and it behoved the noble Lord upon the Woolsack to consider the point, whether it would not be better to select physicians who confined themselves to the treatment of one subject, as the most likely persons
1345The Earl of Eldon
 said, he should express his dissent to the clause in the committee.The Earl of Eldon
1340 in presenting; Petitions against Slavery, from Woburn, Marlborough, and East Wickham, observed, that, in common with every one of their Lordships, he entertained a strong abhorrence of slavery. At the same time; that he made this declaration, he frankly admitted, that he thought there were considerations connected with the question which seemed extremely difficult, and which required the utmost caution in dealing with them. With respect to the condition of the negroes, he was ready to concur in any measures calculated to ensure their good treatment, and wished above all things, that they should be exempted from corporal punishments. But he was surprised to see persons in England, who affected to pity the sufferings of the slaves, offering no remonstrance at the still greater cruelty inflicted at home on their countrymen. One of the petitions attributed the severe agricultural distress that; existed in this country to the vengeance of the Almighty it) consequence of our tolerance of slavery: perhaps it would have: been as wise to ascribe the distress to our having followed the recommendations of bad political advisers. The noble Earl, then proceeded to allude to the remarks made upon him by the Lord Chancellor on a former evening. He was prepared, to speak with perfect indifference, if not with contempt, of any idle and unfounded censure of his conduct or opinions, from: whatever quarter it might come. He denied altogether the pretensions of any; noble Lord, even of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, to dictate to him, or any Peer, how often he should speak, in what manner, or upon what subjects; he should speak, or even to offer any animadversions upon his conduct. He should have noticed the matter before, but that he was prevented from attending in his place by indisposition. If the noble
1340Earl Stanhope
 supported the petition, and expressed his satisfaction at finding the statement which he had made on a; former evening, relative to the state of public feeling in Scotland on the subject of reform, now confirmed. He availed himself of this opportunity to say, that he did not state as he had been reported to have stated, that the member for Edinburgh was returned by three voters, but by thirty three.Lord Duncan
 would then readily strike it out.Lord Wynford
 said, that he should have no objection to strike out that clause, if any noble and learned Lord would take upon himself the responsibility of objecting to it.Lord Wynford
 moved the second reading of the Suits in Common Law Courts Bill, He would not have done so in the absence of the Lord Chief Justice, but he proposed that the discussion on the Bill should take place on the motion for commuting it after the recess.Lord Wynford
4l.32 said, that he should preface the Bill he was about to introduce,
4l.32Lord Wynford
5453525150 said, he wished to make a few observations, which he believed would be strictly in order, as he was disposed to consider this case as analogous to that of going into Committee of Supply in the House of Commons, when it was competent to any Member to make such general observations as he might deem
5453525150Lord Farnham
5655 would not complain of the noble Lord for having taken this opportunity to state his opinion upon such questions as he pleased, simply contenting himself with the observation, that perhaps it would not have exceeded the usual courtesy adopted towards Ministers in that House, if the noble Lord had given him some previous notice of his intention to introduce upon this occasion so many different subjects, in reference to which he should then, perhaps, have been better prepared to return an answer. First, with respect to the recess, of the duration of which the noble Lord had complained, all he had to say at present was, that the precise length of the Adjournment was decided upon by his Majesty's Government after a very mature consideration of the state of public affairs; and he felt assured that the results would fully justify the propriety of that Adjournment. He hoped that not only would no inconvenience be experienced in consequence of the length of the recess, but that its effect would be, by enabling Ministers to prepare and properly mature their measures, greatly to expedite the transaction of business, and that eventually the country would derive very considerable advantage from it. It could not be expected that he should follow the noble Lord through all the topics of his speech; still less that he should attempt to develop measures which it would require time and consideration to mature. In reference to Ireland he might observe, in passing, that he should be at all times willing and anxious to receive advice from a noble Lord so conversant and well acquainted with the affairs of that country. The noble Lord had referred in considerable detail to the report made by a Committee of the House of Commons on the state of the labouring classes in Ireland, but not having had as yet an opportunity of looking attentively into that report, the noble Lord could not expect him to go into a discussion of
5655Earl Grey
 having moved the suspension of the Standing Orders 26 and 155, for the purpose of passing the Consolidated Fund Bill, previously to the recess,Earl Grey
58 said, he had no objection to grant either of the returns asked for by the noble and learned Lord. When the papers were produced, it would be full time for the noble Lord to make such observations on them as he thought proper; and it would be then in his power to give such explanations as were desirable; but the noble Lord had made one observation to which he presumed that some reply would be expected. He had assumed, that the period was now arrived, when, under the Treaty of 1815, this country was entitled to consider itself relieved from any further payments. Now he (Earl Grey) had only to say, that when the papers were on their Lordships' Table, it
58Earl Grey
 was glad that the noble Earl had no objection to the production of the papers; and he agreed with him that the proper time for discussion was when the returns were in the hands of their Lordships.Lord Wynford
 said, he wished to take advantage of the last opportunity that would be afforded to him before the recess, to ask a question of the noble Earl at the head of his Majesty's Government. It was generally believed, that the duty on foreign barilla had been suspended, or in part removed, by an Order in Council; and what he desired to know was— would the noble Earl have any objection to lay before their Lordships a copy of the Treasury Minute under which that order was made? He had also to ask another question, on a subject of greater importance, relative to the Treaty which had been entered into on the 1st of November, 1815, between the kingdom of the Netherlands and Great Britain on the one hand, and Russia on the other. By that Treaty it was stipulated, that Great Britain and the Netherlands should relieve Russia of a debt of fifty millions of florins, one moiety of which was to be paid by this country, and the other by the Netherlands. It also contained a proviso, that, in case the Netherlands should become at any time separated from the other United Provinces, so much of the debt as remained unprovided for at that period should not be paid by Great Britain or Holland. Now, as he considered that England had quite enough to do in attending to her own difficulties, without volunteering to pay the debts of other nations, and as something like the contingency provided for had occurred, he begged to know if the noble Earl would have any objection to lay before the House an account of the payments that had been hitherto made, and the date of the last payment.Lord Wynford
