 Mr. O'Connell  seconded the motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he must object to the proposition of the last speaker, that the Motion should be withdrawn without a division. It was of great importance that the people of England should know who were the parties to this transaction, and who were opposed to it. He considered this as another instance of that paltry truckling on the part of the present Administration towards their ancient enemies, which had already afforded such frequent subjects of complaint. He concurred with his right hon. friend the member for Middlesex, that this was a contest of principle—a contest between the principle of Reform on the one hand, and the principle of Toryism on the other. If the elevation of Toryism were a subject of such trifling importance as the hon. Baronet seemed to consider it, he knew not to what purpose the long and busy life of that Member had been devoted. The whole object of that life, he understood, had been to put down Toryism; and yet now they found him advocating, in his place in Parliament, the doctrine that it was immaterial whether the chief officer of that House was a Tory in principle or not. On that single ground he rested the question. He admitted the extreme fitness of the right hon. Gentleman proposed by the noble Lord to be Speaker of an Unreformed House of Commons. Personally he felt himself much indebted to that right hon. Gentleman for the courteous assistance which he had received at his hands. When he first took his seat in Parliament, indeed, assailed on the one hand by the open opposition of those who then occupied the Treasury Benches, and the perhaps equal but more concealed hostility of those who sat on that side of the House; he must confess that he did not receive so much support from that right hon. Gentleman as he thought himself entitled to. His explanations were cut short; but he had forgotten it all in the subsequent treatment which he experienced. The useful information and assistance which the right hon. Gentleman was at all times ready to give him in the discharge of his parliamentary conduct, more than compensated for any grievance such as that to which he had alluded. He
 54 55 l 56 a laugh 57 in limine l l 58 Althorp
 Mr. Tennyson  confessed, that since he first had the honour of a seat in that House, he had never found himself placed under circumstances of greater pain and difficulty, and embarrassment, than he was upon the present occasion, for though he concurred in all that had fallen from his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, he could not support his Motion; and though he felt as strongly impressed as any Member present with the great merits and valuable qualifications of the right hon. Gentleman whose re-election to the office of their Speaker was now proposed, he could not but regret that they should be driven to such an alternative. As he could not support the Motion of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, he hoped that the House would allow him to state the rea-
 61 62 63
 Mr. O' Connell  was free to admit, that the learned Gentleman's conclusion was perfectly just, if his premises were valid. But he could not admit their validity, for he had yet to learn how there could be a Speaker to a Parliament not in existence. Were they to understand from the learned Gentleman that at a dissolution every circumstance connected with the practical existence and privileges of the House of Commons was at an end—or at least in abeyance—excepting the office of the Speaker? And yet the learned Gentleman's doctrine was, if it meant anything, to that effect. For his own part, he knew of no Act of Parliament which preserved the political existence of the Speaker during the dissolution of the Parliament.
 Mr. O'Connell : Yes; but then Parliament itself, by express statute, also preserves its existence under certain conditions.
 The Attorney General .—The fair interpretation of the Act was, that the salary and pension could not co-exist in the same quarter. The right hon. Gentleman did not, on the 5th of January (the last quarter-day), demand his pension.
 Mr. O' Connell : Very well; but has he not also not demanded his salary?
 The Attorney General  had already explained that the quarter-day fell within the period during which the right hon. Gentleman was entitled to receive his salary as Speaker.
 An Hon. Member  on the Opposition side of the House, was against the re-appointment of the late Speaker. Did they intend to let it be inferred by the public that they were forced to re-elect a Tory Speaker, because they had not amongst themselves a Whig candidate for this high office?
 The Attorney General  would admit that the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) was perfectly correct in stating that no mere declaration of a Minister could reverse the provisions of a legislative enactment, but he more than questioned the accuracy of the hon. Gentleman's interpretation of the Speaker's Pension Act of the last Parliament. He would take it upon him to declare that that Act most explicitly provided that the pension should not be paid till the right hon. Gentleman had ceased to be Speaker, and he would further take it upon him to declare that the right hon. Gentleman was, by the laws passed for regulating the office and salary of the Speaker, actually Speaker of the House of Commons, and as such entitled to receive the salary attached to the office till within the last few hours—in point of fact, till the commencement of the present discussion. No hon. Member could deny that, in the event of the demise of the Crown, though the Parliament was virtually dissolved, the Speaker contiued to receive his salary and exercise the functions of his office till a successor had been appointed in the new Parliament; and no honourable Member who carefully read the Act which thus continued his salary could deny that Mr. Manners Sutton was entitled to receive, at the quarter-day, the salary of Speaker, till, as he had stated, within the very few last hours. Besides, the letter, no less than the spirit, of the Act of last Session, expressly provided that the pension should not come into operation till the right hon. Gentleman had entirely ceased to exist as Speaker—that is, the right hon. Gentleman had not more than some two hours claim to his pension.
 Major Beauclerk  must apologize to the House as a new Member, for proceeding to address it on such an important subject, but he wished to propose a resolution for reducing the salary of the Speaker, from 6,000 l l 76
 Mr. Littleton  said, that under ordinary circumstances he would have suffered others to speak before him, but standing in the situation of an unwilling candidate, he hoped the House would allow him to address a few observations to it. It was impossible for him to express too strongly the honour which he felt at the manner in which the hon. member for Middlesex had put him in nomination to fill the office of Speaker of that House; he hoped, however, that neither the hon. Member, nor any other individual, would take offence when he begged of the hon. Member to spare him and the House the pain of going to a division on this subject. Had his representations been attended to, he should
 52 53
 Mr. Faithful  said, that he came down to the House prepared to support the proposition for appointing the right hon. Gentleman Speaker of that House; but what he had since heard restrained him from immediately giving his countenance to that appointment. It was undoubtedly true that the right hon. Gentleman had himself stated, that if he were re-elected, he had no intention of availing himself of the Act, by which a pension had been granted to him. But it must strike every one, that a question of this great importance ought to be determined upon grounds abstracted from individual considerations; and ought not to be left to the decision of the acceptance or non-acceptance of any single person. He begged, therefore, to ask any of his Majesty's Ministers who were present, whether, in the event of Mr. Manners Sutton being re-elected to the Chair of that House, they were prepared, immediately after his re-election, to bring in a Bill for the express purpose of repealing the existing Act, by which a pension was conferred on that right hon. Gentleman? If his Majesty's Ministers would not pledge themselves to the production of such a Bill, he should not feel justified, in the discharge of his parliamentary duty, in relying on the mere assurance of an individual.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the question, whether in the present instance the right hon. Gentleman, if re-elected, would draw not only his salary as Speaker, but the pension guaranteed to him by an Act of Parliament, had been decided by the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman, that even if the Act would allow him to accept the pension, he would not accept it. But the much greater question was, the dangerous precedent of voting a pension to the Speaker of that House before his final retirement from the Chair. If this precedent were established, what was to prevent any future Minister from proposing to vote a pension to a Speaker, after long service, but before he left the Chair of that House? Nothing could be more dangerous than such a precedent. Although he was quite sure, that the right hon. Gentleman's conduct in the Chair would not vary one tittle in consequence of the pension which had been voted to
 79
 Mr. Warburton  could not, by any means, assent to the opinion of some hon. Gentlemen who had spoken on this question, when they affirmed that the fitness of the candidates to fill beneficially the office for which they were to be appointed, was only a secondary consideration, and ought to weigh but little with the House, when put in competition with weightier matters. At the same time, he must agree with those hon. Gentlemen who had made political character the most essential qualification, so far as to say, that when the pretensions of the candidates, in point of fitness to fill
 71 cœteris paribus 72 73 l l
 Mr. Hume  proceeded: He would, then, take that opportunity of referring to the election of the Speaker, and he would call the attention of the House to that subject. That now appeared to him to be a measure of the utmost importance which the House could attend to, and he was well aware that, in calling their attention to it, he was undertaking a duty which was personally unpleasant. It was, however, a public duty, and he craved the indulgence of the House while he stated the reasons why it appeared to him especially necessary that the individual elected to that high and confidential situation should enjoy the complete confidence and good opinion of the House, and of the country at large. He was aware that it had been customary to make arrangements for the election of Speaker by the different parties of the House before the actual election, and that the Ministerial arrangements for that nomination, were generally agreeable to the judgment, and met the approbation of the majority, and that it was a common proceeding for such previous arrangements to meet the concurrence and be supported by the opinion of the House. On that ground it might be
 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 * † Ibid. p. 8. 43 * * 44 45 l
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to bring in a Bill to alter the Act for granting an Annuity to the late Speaker, on his retirement from the Chair? That was a subject of great importance.
 Mr. Hume : The learned Solicitor General's argument would hold good if either he or the noble Lord could show a single case in which a Speaker of that House received his salary for a period during which Parliament was in a state of dissolution. The hon. member for Brighton's question, therefore, in the absence of the proof of such a case, was well deserving the attention of the House; nor, indeed, could he see any valid objection that could be raised to its being explicitly answered. Let them consider the force of the question. At present, if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Manners Sutton) were elevated to the Chair without a revision of the Act conferring on him a pension, he would be placed in a position so wholly independent of the esteem and good-will of that House, that, supposing his conduct should be of such a character as to compel the House to expel him from his office, he could fall back upon his pension wholly regardless of the House's censure or reluctance to appropriate the public money to the payment of that pension. By an act of the Legislature the right hon. Gentleman was entitled to a pension of 4,000 l 81
 Mr. Hume .—Did the learned Gentleman mean to say, that the right hon.
 82
 Mr. Methuen  observed, that he considered himself to be standing there as the Representative of the people of England,
 75 l l l l
 Mr. Cobbett  agreed with the hon. member for Surrey, that some resolution on the subject of the Speaker's salary should be adopted. The enormous salary, and the other great pecuniary advantages enjoyed by the Speaker of the House of Commons should make the Representatives of the people take it into their consideration. He begged to ask the House what fitter instance or opportunity could be taken for establishing a precedent by the reduction of the pensions with which the people were burthened than that to which he had now alluded more than once—namely, the pension so improperly given to the Speaker by the Act of the last Session? Here was a man for the last sixteen years, nay, almost from his infancy, receiving by thousands the public money; and who, out of doors, would not say it was highly improper such a man should be set up as the subject of their election, or as a sample of the House itself? If they were farmers, and used the language of that class, they would cry out, "As is the sample, so is the sack," Would it not be clear that the present House was, like the last, despite of the Reform, disposed to persevere in eternally putting its hands into the pockets of the poor people of this country, and taking from thence as much as it well could? If that right hon. Gentleman should be elected, he would be taken by the people to be a sample of the House
 77
 Mr. W. Cobbett  spoke as follows: It appears to me that since I have been sitting here, I have heard a great deal of vain and unprofitable conversation. It seems to be thought that this is a mere question as to the greater or less fitness of the one Member or the other, to fill the office of Speaker of this House; but, in my opinion, there is another point which in a still greater degree requires our most serious consideration: I mean how the people will think on the subject, what regard they will consider has been paid to them in our choice, and what opinion they will form of us from our first act—the appointment of a Speaker. It has been very much the fashion to talk of the fitness of the Member proposed in other respects—of his experience, and all that; but in this case we ought to look among ourselves for one who may deserve to be considered by the people as an epitome of us. When we put a Speaker once in that Chair, we tell the people, in effect, to "look on that man, he is the chief of us." He ought, in fact, to be the best of us all; he will be considered the man whom we have chosen as the ablest and wisest among us; the most public spirited; and, in short, as I said before, the epitome of the House. In making our choice, we say to the people of England—" Look upon this man as our Representative, as we are Representatives of you." With respect to the Act of Parliament (but I suppose I must not say a single word about law)—with regard to the Act of Parliament which granted a pension to the right hon. Charles Manners Sutton, I must say I think the noble Lord (Althorp) is completely mistaken, and that the right hon. Gentleman is undoubtedly entitled by law, if re-elected Speaker, to continue to draw his pension as well as his salary. Now I will ask, is there any lawyer here, any merchant, or any literary man, who hears me, who does not know that if a quarter of his time were spent in the business which devolves upon the Chairman of this House, that business would not only be done effectually, but it would be done much better than it ever was yet? But the Speaker has not only an ample salary,
 67 l l 68 l l l 69 l s s d l l l l 70
 Mr. Manners Sutton  said, he would answer the question of the hon. Member in one short sentence. He conceived that, according to the law of England, and according to the intention of the Legislature in the Act of Parliament in question, the person holding the office of Speaker of the House of Commons could not receive 1 s s
 Mr. Manners Sutton  was understood to express the considerable embarrassment under which he rose on the occasion, for he hardly knew how, on the one hand, to avoid the imputation of unwarrantable vanity if he gave vent to the feelings inspired by the kind opinions which had from all parts of the House been given of his exertions to perform the very arduous and most important duties of that office in the House of Commons which he had filled for sixteen years, and, on the other, how to shun the appearance of culpable indifference if he failed to express the satisfaction and gratitude he felt. Whatever sentiments he had heard expressed with respect to his fitness in other particulars, he heard no opinion mentioned on any side unfavourable to his impartiality; and whatever other claims his friends might flatter themselves that he possessed to the high honour of presiding in the House of Commons, to this, at least, he would lay claim—he would take credit to himself for the strictest impartiality in his decisions. On this, as on every occasion, he felt it to be his duty to submit implicitly to the decision of the House. No man could more deeply or more painfully feel than he, the difficulty of duly performing the arduous duties which he was again willing to take upon himself if it should please the House to re-appoint him. He knew well, better than most men, the responsibility which that man must incur in all cases who consents to fill that Chair. Proud and grateful as he was for the compliments which had been so liberally bestowed upon him from all quarters of the House, he could not be so far led away by them as to imagine that the House of Commons could not easily find
 74
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he took the liberty, on this occasion, of rising thus early to address the House, in order that he might, in the first place, have the satisfaction of expressing his entire concurrence in all that had been said by the noble Lord; though, at the same time, the observations of the noble Lord placed him in a situation of considerable embarrassment, since the noble Lord seemed to have touched upon every point connected with the subject in so eloquent a manner as rendered it imprudent for any Gentleman to follow him. The noble Lord had pointed out, with great propriety, those grave and weighty considerations to which the House was bound to attend on the present occasion. The observations of the hon. member for Middlesex also made it difficult to add anything to what he himself had advanced, although he must confess that the hon. Member had taken a position which he had little expected him to occupy. As he viewed the question, he took it that this was a case to be decided on its abstract merits, and not to be disposed of by private regard or partial feeling. The only consideration which ought to weigh with the Members of that House was, who amongst them could they select as the most fit to fulfil the important functions attached to the office of Speaker? At a time of difficulty in the eyes of all—a time of embarrassment and danger in the eyes of many—but to him a time of hope and satisfaction—at such a time, they were called on to say who should fill the Chair of the first Reformed Parliament. Surely that situation should be filled by a person whom they could depend on; not by one of whom they might prophesy what he might be likely to do, but by one of whom, guided by previous experience, they could confidently foretel the future conduct; by one, of whom, for sixteen years, the conduct had been the theme of constant panegyric by every person who had, on any occasion, come in contact with him, and by none had he been more warmly praised than by the hon. member for Middlesex. That was a solid ground of preference to which no untried excellence could lay any claim. The speech of that hon. Member, in which he bore such ample testimony to the merits of the right hon. Gentleman, reminded him of the passage in Scripture, where Balak calls on Balaam to curse his enemies.
 50 minutiœ 51 Quis vituperavit?
 Sir Francis Burdett  must repeat his firm conviction, that there was no man, without exception, in that House, who could be put in competition with the right hon. Gentleman now proposed to fill the Chair, in all those qualities which were necessary to the discharge of the high and important duties attached to the office. To those hon. Members who had objected, on the ground of the retiring pension which had been conferred upon the right hon. Gentleman, Ministers had explained the opinion which they entertained of the Act of Parliament in question. But the opposition which was made to the re-appointment of Mr. Manners Sutton by those who were the advocates of public economy, was the most extraordinary, and exhibited the Strangest view of the case conceivable.
 78
 The Solicitor General  said, that as an appeal had been made to him for his opinion upon the law of the case, he would not hesitate to express it. His opinion was, that the right hon. Gentleman, if reelected, could not receive under that Act his retiring pension for services. The right hon. Gentleman had not discontinued to be Speaker in consequence of the dissolution. He was and would continue, for many purposes, Speaker of that House, and he was then Speaker until an election of another Speaker took place, for the purpose of receiving a salary as such Speaker. In addition to the incapacity by law to receive the retiring pension if he were re-elected, the House had the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman himself upon the subject of his having no intention to assert a right to claim the retiring pension.
 The Solicitor General  begged leave, for the information of the House, and to put an end altogether to the legal cavils of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, to read from the Act for regulating the salary of Speaker, which he held in his hand, the provisions under which, in the event of a dissolution of Parliament, the individual holding that office was entitled to receive the salary attached to it, "till a Speaker is chosen in the new Parliament." Under this provision, therefore, Mr. Manners Sutton, the Speaker of the last Parliament, was and would be entitled to his salary till his successor be appointed; and, under the provisions of the Act of last Session, by being thus entitled to his salary, he was not, and could not be, entitled to claim or receive his retiring annuity.
 Lord Althorp : The learned member for Dublin must be aware that in the event of the demise of the Crown, after the dissolution of an old Parliament, and before the meeting of a new Parliament, the old Parliament must re-assemble, with its Speaker at its head. Although the Parliament was constitutionally defunct, yet the Speaker continued to receive his salary and exercise the privileges of his office till the appointment of his successor in a new Parliament.
 Lord Althorp : I rise in consequence of the call which has been made upon me by my right hon. friend, and of the charge which has been made against his Majesty's Government, I shall, therefore, briefly state the reasons which induce me to give my vote as I shall do on the present occasion. My right hon. friend, and also the hon. member for Dublin, imputed to the King's Government the exercise of undue influence in the election of a Speaker. As far as my own knowledge is concerned, no influence has been used at all. With respect to the case, it is simply this:—I am perfectly ready to admit, and I agree with those Gentlemen who say, that if they found two Gentlemen of equal ability proposed as Speaker—with one of whom I agreed in opinion generally, and from the other of whom I differed—I should most assuredly give the preference to the former. But when I found that the right hon. Gentleman had again been returned as a Member of the present Parliament, I really am quite astonished that every Gentleman does not feel, as I did, the great advantages which must result from our possessing the benefit of his experience; and knowing, as we do, how he has per-
 64 65 66
 Lord Althorp  said, he was sorry to interrupt the hon. Member, but he must rise to order. It was against all usage and custom, he believed, to enter upon business. They were not entitled to enter into any discussion except that for electing the Speaker.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in rising to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman, and to congratulate the House on what had just taken place, he could not but advert with the greatest satisfaction to the fact, that during the previous discussion there was not one hon. Member who had spoken, and who, like himself, had had experience of the right hon. Gentleman's great qualities, who had not borne his warm testimony to them. With respect to what had fallen from one hon. Member, of the political tendencies of the right hon. Gentleman, his (Lord Althorp's) experience justified him in assuring that hon. Gentleman, and all those hon. Gentlemen who were new to the House, that those tendencies never exhibited themselves in the right hon. Gentleman's conduct in the Chair. For much the greater portion of the time during which he (Lord Althorp) had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had differed from the opinion of the majority; but, during that period, he had been treated with just as much courtesy by the right hon. Gentleman, and had received just as much parliamentary assistance from him as since he had sat on the Ministerial side of the House. Although he entertained political opinions different from those of the right hon. Gentleman, he had never found that difference influencing the right hon. Gentleman's conduct in the Chair.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that he could not help regretting that upon such an occasion as the present, the hon. member for Dublin
 59 60
 Lord Morpeth  said, that in rising to select from amongst the hon. Members who surrounded him an individual worthy to preside over their proceedings, he felt
 46 47 48
 The Speaker , accompanied by Lord Morpeth and Sir Francis Burdett, his proposer and seconder, and followed by nearly all the Members present, proceeded to the House of Peers. On his return, he took the Chair and addressed the House to this effect: He had been in the House of Peers, where he had communicated with the Lords Commissioners appointed by his Majesty; that the House, in the exercise of its ancient and undoubted privilege of choosing its own Speaker, had proceeded to elect one; and, further, that that choice had fallen upon him, which choice the Commissioners had immediately approved. He then proceeded to lay claim, by humble petition, to all those ancient rights and privileges which the House had enjoyed in former Parliaments, particularly those of freedom of debate, freedom from arrest for themselves and their servants, and free access to his Majesty at all reasonable times; and also that the most favourable construction should, on all occasions, be put upon their words and acts, all which rights and privileges the Lords Commissioners assured him had been granted and confirmed by his Majesty as fully as they had been given by any of his Majesty's predecessors. The House would then permit him again to express his most sincere and grateful acknowledgments
 86
 Mr. War-burton  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to bring forward any measure during the present Session, with respect to the duty on newspapers?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was his intention to take the sense of the House on the propriety of its sitting at eleven o'clock in the day, and not later than eight o'clock in the evening. He would also take the sense of the House upon the best means of preventing effectually the interference of Peers, and also of making effectual the provisions against bribery.
 The Marquess of Chandos  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to make any alteration in the Corn Laws?
 The Earl of Ormelie  said, he rose for the purpose of undertaking the important and honourable, but highly responsible duty, of moving an humble Address to his Ma-jesty, in answer to the gracious Speech he had that day delivered to the assembled Parliament of the country, and which had just now been read to the House from the Chair. Though the Representative of a large county, he felt too sensible that he owed this distinguished confidence on the part of his fellow-countrymen more to his attachment to the principles he had ever entertained, than to any power or qualification he possessed to fulfil those arduous duties which the Representatives of the people were now called upon to discharge. It would, however, be gratifying to him to have the present opportunity of making known to the House the feelings and opinions of those who had done him the honour of sending him there, because he was conscious they were those of loyalty to his Majesty, of attachment to the Constitution, and of reason and moderation in all their expectations as to the happy results which they looked to from the reform which had taken place in the representative system of this country. Assured, therefore, as he was of being the Representative of such a constituency, and having himself always given his support to those principles which guided his Majesty's Councils, and having a firm reliance in the wisdom and integrity of the Ministers who directed those Councils, he had not allowed himself to be influenced by any feelings of a personal nature, which would have urged him not to take a prominent part on the present occasion; and though conscious of his own inadequacy to discharge the task which he had undertaken, yet he relied on the indulgent kindness of the House to bear with his inexperience while he made a few observations before moving the Address. He could not but think he spoke the sentiments and opinions of a large majority of the House, when he said, that the circumstances under which they were assembled were calculated to call forth feelings of joy and congratulation—of loyalty and grati-
 * 141 142 143 No, no," 144 145 146 147
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was impossible in his opinion for the Representatives of the people to agree to such an Address. He thought it was a bloody, and brutal Address [ laughter 149 :
 Mr. O'Connell  continued. Here Ireland was described as a country "blessed by Divine Providence with so many natural advantages." It was, indeed, so blessed. Had Scotland, he would ask, so many advantages? Had even England so many advantages? How, then, did it happen, when they talked of the natural advantages of Ireland, that that country was in so wretched a state? He might be sneered at, but he would assert that there never was so fruitful a country presenting so much misery; there never was in the history of the world, so poor a people with so rich a church. How was, it, that after seven centuries of op-
 150 151 152 153 154 155 156 157 158 159 160 l latitat 161
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if he was out of order in the observations which he had been making, if he was irregular in the words which he had been employing, he would desist from using them. He was determined to give no one an opportunity of acting against him. He would take the noble Lord's hint. Strong language was of course not justifiable when such topics were under consideration. It ought to be
 "—in bondsman's key. With bated breath, and whispering humbleness,"
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the noble Lord's objection raised a great constitutional question, from trying which he would not shrink; it was a question that concerned one of the most important privileges of Parliament. If he were wrong, he would not persevere in the course he
 162
 Mr. Stanley  said, he was convinced that the House would bear with him whilst he trespassed upon their attention for as short a time as possible. He felt that as a member of the Government it was impossible that he could remain silent after the eloquent (for such he must allow it to be), and forcible invective (for he could not call it argument) of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. It certainly did not surprise him that the hon. Member who had just sat down should have entered into some calculations for the purpose of answering a speech which he might naturally have supposed would have been made by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, rather than
 184 O'Connell: 185 186 l 187 188 189 O'Connell 190 O'Connell; 191 O'Connell: 192 quoad "from Mr. O'Connell. 193 194 195 196
 Mr. O'Connell , in explanation, begged leave to say, that his charge against the Irish Government of partiality and injustice was confined to two topics, neither of which the right hon. Secretary had at all touched upon. He did not make it a matter of charge that so few Catholics were High Sheriffs, he merely alluded to the matter indirectly; but he distinctly charged that Government with having, since their accession to office, appointed twenty-six stipendiary Magistrates of Police, of whom not one was a Catholic. Instead of meeting this damning fact, the
 197
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the constitutional question having been decided as he expected, he should, in deference to the admonition of the Speaker in regard to preserving order in the debates, not proceed further in the course of observations which he had thought it is duty to make upon the Ministerial document. He should now proceed to advert to the other grievances of which Ireland had to complain. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley), did he think that the Bench of Justice in Ireland was such as to deserve the confidence of the people of
 163 164 165 166 to Waterford Chronicle 167 falsi Tipperary Free Press 168 l s d l 169 170 171 Habeas Corpus 172 say, post hoc, propter hoc; l l 173 l l 174 175 176 sic volo, sic jubeo, stat pro ratione voluntas' 177
 Mr. O'Connell : I said consolidated, not divided.
 Mr. Hill  thought, that if the power now sought to be obtained by Ministers could by possibility be done without, it ought not to be granted. It was a question of serious consideration whether the House had sufficient confidence in his Majesty's Ministers to grant them such additional power without an apprehension of its abuse. He had listened with great attention to the statements of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, as well as those of other hon. Members, and he came to the conclusion that, be the fault where it might. Ministers were incurring an awful responsibility in thus seeking an additional physical force for the suppression of disturbances in Ireland. He had been much astonished at the catalogue of Irish grievances poured forth by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, particularly when he found him going so far back as the reigns of Henry 8th, James 1st, and Charles 1st and 2nd. But the hon. and learned Member should recollect, that if Ireland had suffered under the tyrannical sway of those despots, England had also had her share of suffering under them; and it was only after they had passed away that her government approached its present form. He was astonished also at hearing the hon. member for Dublin declare, "upon his conscience," that he did not believe the Parliament or people of England would do justice to Ireland. He would say for himself, as the Representative, however unworthy, of a very considerable number of constituents, that the people were most anxious to do justice to Ireland; and he could assure the hon. and learned Member, that the wrongs of Ireland, which even his (Mr. O'Connell's) eloquence had failed to paint in adequate colours, were deeply and feelingly sympathized in by the people of this country. He felt convinced that, under all circumstances, the power now sought for, and which he trusted would be grant-
 206 "hear, hear,"
 Colonel Davies  had listened to the right hon. Secretary's speech with equal pain and indignation; and, indeed, knew not how to account for the tone which the right hon. Gentleman assumed among his colleagues. Instead of rebutting or justifying, if it could be justified, the fact urged by the learned member for Dublin—namely, that Ministers had grossly abused in Ireland the right to challenge jurymen in Crown prosecutions—the right hon. Gentleman contented himself with taunting his learned accuser with having himself been guilty of the same offence. If it was an abuse on the part of the learned Gentleman, why did not Ministers propose an abolition of the practice? If, in some two or three cases, the Government found it expedient to have recourse to it, was that a reason why all Ireland should be denied the benefit of the law, or deprived of the trial by jury? To express alarm, it seemed, at the state of Ireland, was, according to the right hon. Gentleman, unmanly, and to lack courage. A man of as high reputation for courage as the right hon. Gentleman, and in the estimation of every person in the empire, except perhaps the right hon. Gentleman himself—almost as great a man in the estimation of the public as the right hon. Secretary—the Duke of Wellington, was not ashamed nor afraid to express his alarm at the state of Ireland, and to express his horror of the ills of civil war. In truth, the right hon. Gentleman's speech was, in every sense, an insult to the people of that country, and proved, in every phrase, how totally unfit he was for an office which afforded so many opportunities of endangering the peace of the empire. Enshrined in a fancied aristocratic superiority of birth and station, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think it quite beneath his lofty reputation to hold out the olive-branch to Ireland. Indeed it made one's blood boil to hear any Minister presume, in a freely chosen Parliament of the British people, to utter a speech so calculated to incense an excitable, and long-injured, and sensitive, and brave people. But it was useless remonstrating with a Gentleman so wrapped up in his own fancied superiority. He therefore addressed himself to the noble Lord opposite, who so eminently blended the  suaviter in modo fortiter in re 198
 Lord John Russell  said, that he did not object to any words which the hon. and learned Gentleman might think fit to use respecting the Address which was proposed in that House; but he did object to the words "bloody Speech" being applied to a Speech which had been so lately pronounced by his Majesty in person in the other House of Parliament.
 Lord John Russell  rose to order. In consequence of the words which had been just used by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he (Lord John Russell) rose to request that the hon. and learned Gentleman's words should be taken down.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  regretted to hear what had fallen from the noble Lord, with reference to the taxes on newspapers, and he should not, therefore, defer an early opportunity of giving notice that he should move for an inquiry by a committee, similar to that during the last Session, and to consider the propriety of the removal of those taxes, which were so generally disliked and detested.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  expressed, with great regret, his dissatisfaction at the Speech which had been that day delivered from the Throne: and he was still more sorry to find fault with the Speech of the noble Lord who proposed the Address, in answer to that communication. Much as he had been surprised at his Majesty's Speech, he was still more so at that of the noble Lord, who had brought a question before the House which had nothing to do with the subject at present under consideration. That noble
 210 Habeas Corpus capàpee 211 212 d 213 l 214 215 216 217
 Mr. John Marshall  rose to second the Motion. He claimed the indulgence of the House while he shortly stated the reasons which appeared to him to be quite sufficient to induce the House to agree to the Address which had been moved by the noble Lord who had just sat down, the adoption of which he had risen to second. He hoped the House would not think it unbecoming in him, the Representative of a large manufacturing town, now for the first time represented in Parliament, if he shortly alluded to the measure of reform which had entitled that town to Representatives, and which had been discussed, and so happily concluded, in the last Parliament. It had been made apparent, and must be clear to the most strenuous opposers of that measure, that, at any rate, its machinery had proved most effective, and it must be allowed, as far as that went, the plans for registering the voters—the mode of taking the poll—the duration of elections—all these arrangements had been found of the greatest advantage; and he entertained no doubt that equal benefits would result from the more substantial parts of the measure, and particularly in the character of the proceedings of the House, with reference to the bringing to a happy conclusion all those great and important measures which must be submitted to its consideration. He could not avoid stating the satisfaction he felt at the change made in the constitution of the House; neither could he deny himself the present opportunity of expressing his gratitude to the Administration by whose great exertions the change had been brought to bear. That a reform must have been effected at some time he never had a doubt, but he must say, that the Administration had done that which entitled them to the good opinion of the country, in having brought forward the measure in a time of peace and tranquillity, when its details could be calmly and dispassionately discussed. Coupled with this, a greater attention than formerly was now paid to a strict economy in the public expenditure, while, by the exercise of the influence of this country with regard to foreign relations, the Ministers had manifested a course of policy in accordance with the true interests of the country. He could not but think
 148
 Mr. Richards  said, after the splendid exhibition of eloquence by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he felt a considerable reluctance to address the House, which was not a little increased by his labouring under the effects of indisposition. Still, under present circumstances, he should not feel satisfied in giving merely a silent vote. The hon. member for Dublin had complained of what was in the Speech, but he rose to complain of what was not in it; the hon. Member accused the Ministers of sins of commission. but he accused them of sins of omission. He did expect that some mention would be made of the condition of the labouring and industrious classes, of their distresses and privations; and he did expect that Parliament would be instructed to inquire into the causes of those distresses, and into the means of relieving them. He did not come there actuated by a spirit of paltry ambition, by the mere desire of the empty honour of franking a letter, so valued by some hon. Gentlemen; but to do his duty to the people; and, in discharge of that duty, he claimed an early and searching investigation into the causes which had brought on the labouring population a degree of distress unparalleled in the annals of the country. On their behalf he challenged that inquiry which could not be slightly passed over. In the Speech from the Throne, the people of England were complimented
 178 laughter continued laughter renewed laughler]
 Mr. Richards  was exceedingly indebted to the Speaker for explaining the cause of the laughter. He had frequently heard of his kindness, and he now found that what had been told him of his courtesy and urbanity was founded simply in truth. Of the causes of the distress on which he was commenting he should not then enter, but should take the liberty of saying a
 179
 Mr. Roebuck  knew the language of parliamentary evasion; but he thought it high time the people of England should have distinct answers, and that the replies to their demands should cease to be evasive; and comparing that answer with the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman, in trying to persuade them to adopt coercive measures towards Ireland, he could not help feeling that the suspicions that were
 201 202
 Mr. Roebuck : Why, what is the refusal to take the stamp duties off newspapers but a denial of popular instruction?
 Mr. Roebuck  had every disposition to give the present Government his best support, and, so far from throwing obstacles in its career, was prepared to forego some of his own views and opinions, but most certainly was not prepared to give them a vote which must lead to a civil war in Ireland, as he should do were he to vote in favour of the right hon. Irish Secretary's intended measures. That right hon. Gentleman seemed to play with men as if they were so many puppets, and not human beings like himself, of strong feelings, passions, and high emotions—indeed, as so many "kneeded clods," to be treated as checkers or dice, but not as rational creatures to be appealed to through their kindlier feelings. When called upon in a great crisis in public affairs to legislate for a great nation, instead of discussing the question calmly, and as an intellectual and moral being, the right hon. Gentleman made a furious and insulting appeal to their worst passions, regardless that the result might be the involving, not only of Ireland, but England and the world, in a conflagration. This was no ordinary question—it was no" mere Irish" question—it involved the interests of good government in every clime and language. Had the right hon. Gentleman read the history of the last fifteen years? If so, he must have seen that the two great antagonist principles were in fierce and unslackened contention—the principle of self-government—and the principle of aristocratic domination. He must have seen, too, that the former, the better principle, that which involved the best hopes of the human race—the principle of self-government, had every hour waxed more and more in strength and glory, and had manifested itself in
 199 Habeas Corpus 200
 Mr. Hume  would, under these circumstances, call the attention of the House to the subject on Thursday week.
 Mr. Hume  suggested the propriety of the adoption now of one of the orders—namely, that with reference to petitions. With respect to the others, he should wish them to be postponed until to-morrow, as he, as well as other hon. Members, intended to oppose their general adoption.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to fill up the sinecure office of Governor of Berwick, and also that of Director-General of Artillery, both of which were now vacant; because, on the answer to that question would depend whether he (Mr. Hume) should bring forward a specific motion on the subject?
 Mr. Lalor  expressed his surprise, as was understood, at the course taken by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, whose only grounds for demanding additional powers in Ireland appeared to be because Juries were not found efficient, owing to the system of intimidation in use in that country. Now, he challenged that right hon. Gentleman to state whether, out of the 150 cases tried at the late Special Commission held in his county, there was more than one acquittal? He protested against the measures to be employed against Ireland. The forces they had already were not sufficient for the purposes
 207
 Mr. Cobbett  had long entertained the opinion that some of the Sessional Orders were of much greater importance than they were usually considered to be; for instance, at the commencement of every Session, it was customary to appoint standing Committees for various purposes; but at present, these were mere names, and the Committees never met. There was a Committee for religion—a Committee for grievances—a Committee for the purpose of attending to any complaints that might be made respecting the administration of Government; another Committee for affairs of trade, and the Committee of Privileges. For many years, only the latter Committee had been named, although the House was annually called upon to vole the appointment of the other Committees. He should like to know whether it was the intention of the noble Lord, that these Committees should sit and act, instead of being, as they now were, appointed merely as matters of form? If this were again to
 139
 Mr. Gillon  would not give a silent vote on the present occasion, in favour of the amendment of the honourable and learned member for Dublin. An hon. Member had expressed some regrets which he shared—that nothing was said in the Speech from the Throne in allusion to the distresses of the working classes. He could vouch for the severity of those distresses, and for the patience and magnanimity with which they were borne. This omission was not intentional on the part of his Majesty's Ministers; but most likely it was still to be regretted as having relation to those who must ever be considered as forming the true strength of the nation. He also objected to that part of the Speech which referred to the Church, which was unsatisfactory in the highest degree. In that portion of the country to which he belonged there was a growing desire for an immediate separation between the Church and the State. He hoped that that separation would be made one of the consequences of reform. He was also strongly opposed to the sentiment which
 209
 The Speaker , suggested to the hon. Gentleman, that if he were to speak from his place, consistently with the usual orders of the House, he would be less likely to be interrupted.
 The Speaker  said, that he had to acquaint the House that the House had been summoned to the House of Peers, where his Majesty had been graciously
 140 *
 The Speaker  thought the House could not agree to one and postpone the others, as a resolution was last Session adopted to prevent them from being separated one from another.
 The Speaker  intimated that the usual course with reference to the standing orders of the House, was to immediately adopt them. He would, however, beg leave to suggest, that on this occasion it would be better to delay them till to-morrow, when, if any hon. Member had amendments to be proposed, they could be considered with more propriety.
 The Speaker  said, that having been appealed to upon this point, he must say that the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman was perfectly correct—namely, that in a constitutional point of view, and for constitutional purposes, the Speech of his Majesty was usually considered the Speech of his Majesty's Ministers, and, for that Speech, it was true that his Majesty's Ministers were alone responsible; but it appeared to him that that was altogether beside the question which had been now raised for their consideration. He would put it to the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether, if order and decency were to be preserved in the public debates of that House, they could possibly be preserved consistently with the employment of such language, whether applied to the Speech of the King's Ministers, or to a Speech just delivered by his Majesty himself in person?
 Mr. Clay , as the Representative of a constituency which in no point was second to any in the empire, could not give a silent vote in favour of the Address. He should give his support very reluctantly to the Address without a more distinct pledge from Government of efficacious
 208
 Lord Althorp  felt himself obliged to make a few remarks, in reply to the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, in reference to what he had said, at an earlier period of the evening. He had only said, that he was not in a situation to answer the question which had been put to him; that he did not know the present means of the revenue: but he had stated further, that it was his opinion, that the tax on newspapers was a bad tax. If the hon. Member took that as a proof that he (Lord Althorp) was opposed to liberal instruction, that was supposing his premises correct, which was straining it a little, still the imputation was rather a strong one. His right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley) had been complained of on account of the speech he had delivered to-night against an hon. and learned Gentleman. But that hon. and learned Gentleman, as usual, had not been very sparing of
 203 204 desiderata
 Lord Althorp  should have thought that the responsibility amongst a bench of Magistrates was divided. So, as far as the responsibility went, the system was good, but the great improvement was, that the administration of justice took place in public. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, and stated in fair terms, not as an accusation against him, that he had given a pledge that the Jury Bill should have the support of Government. He (Lord Althorp) acknowledged, that he did give such a pledge, believing that he had full authority for so doing; the Jury Bill was, however, dropped at the close of the Session, but, as he had stated in another way to the hon. and learned Gentleman, entirely without his knowledge. He regretted it, but it was not his fault; and when he gave the pledge, he considered it, and even long afterwards, he was confident that he should be enabled to redeem it. He did not know, after the speech which the House had heard from his right hon. friend, that it was necessary to detain it longer. As to the measures of relief for the grievances of Ireland, his Majesty's Ministers were determined to apply the best remedies the case admitted of; but it would be recollected that the grievances of Ireland were of too long standing to admit of a remedy at once; that if they passed any measure which the most sanguine person could suggest, they would not at once remedy discontent and disturbance. Then, if they saw Ireland in the condition in which it was described in the King's Speech, and in the speech of the hon. and learned Gen-
 205
 Lord Althorp : I merely said, I was not prepared at present to say that these duties should be taken off.
 Lord Althorp  was understood to deny that anything had been said about a refusal of popular instruction,
 Lord Althorp  would not object to the course recommended by the Speaker, and would take that opportunity of stating a proposition he had to make, to the House, which was this. "In the first place," said the noble Lord, "I shall propose that the House do meet every day, except Saturday, at twelve o'clock at noon, for private business, and for receiving petitions; and do continue to sit until three o'clock, unless sooner adjourned. That, at three o'clock precisely, Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House, and leave the Chair, without putting any question for adjournment. That the business then before the House be taken up on the next day, and have precedence in respect of other business of the same kind. That the House be adjourned only till five o'clock, and that it do then meet and proceed with the business set down in the Order Book. That if a House is not formed before one o'clock, for the sitting between twelve and three o'clock, Mr. Speaker do then take the Chair; and if forty Members be not present, do adjourn the House till five o'clock; and, in like manner, if the House is not formed at six o'clock for the sitting in the evening, Mr. Speaker do then take the Chair; and if forty Members are not present, do adjourn the House till twelve o'clock the next day. That Committees
 138
 Lord Althorp  said, in answer to the question put by the noble Lord, that it was the intention of the Government to bring forward such measures as appeared most pressing in their nature and character. He apprehended that there would be great danger of the House not benefiting the country, in the way he thought it would, if too much were to be at once attempted. The questions which would come before the House, and which would necessarily press much on its attention, were so many, and so large in their character, that he (Lord Althorp) really did not think it would be well to go into any new matter. The House would remember, that amongst the questions to be submitted to its consideration, was that of the East-India Charter, and also the Bank of England Charter. Again, there was another question of great importance, relating to the Church Establishment in Ireland, besides the question of commutation of tithes in Ireland, in addition to the other various important topics of which notice had this evening been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. O'Connell), and by other hon. Gentlemen. He thought that those questions were more pressing than the Corn Laws, and he did not, therefore, entertain any intention of proposing any alteration of the Corn Laws.
 Lord Althorp , in reply, said, that with respect to the office of Governor of Berwick, he believed it was intended to fill it up. With respect to the other appointment named by the hon. member for Mid-
 137
 Lord Althorp  said, in answer to the question put to him by the hon. Member, that every person acquainted with the subject must be aware of the disadvantageous effect of this tax. His wish certainly was to introduce a measure to amend the laws in this respect; but, at the present period of the year, before he knew or could know what might be the result of the finances at the end of the year, it was impossible that he could give any pledge on this subject, or on any other of a similar description. Until he should know the state of the finances, he could not give any pledge on the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he hoped it would not be inconvenient to the noble Lord, if he was permitted to ask the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary at War, a question of the highest importance, affecting a most meritorious class of British subjects serving in the Array in India, and of the Roman Catholic faith. Grievous complaints had reached him (Mr. O'Connell), on authority which could not be questioned, that the men were suffering much mental torture in consequence of being deprived of the comforts of religion. The Government had made no provision for the religious instruction of persons professing that faith, though they were very numerous, and were necessarily obliged to remain in the country in which they were serving for long periods of time. He wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, whether there existed any intention of remedying this evil.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that he had been a member of the Committee of last Session, to which allusion had been made, but he took very little part in its proceedings. Some mode ought certainly to be adopted for expediting the business. He had sat as many hours in that House since he came into Parliament as any other Member, and the inconvenience to him was extremely great. The old system was, to present petitions after the general business of the House had terminated. The consequence was that petitions were presented to empty benches. As to the number of petitions likely to be presented this Session, he could say, for himself, that he had enough to occupy a fortnight or three weeks. It would be well to consider whether, during three days in the week, they might not meet at ten o'clock; and, lest their might be a difficulty in making a House, they should frame a law, or order, declaring that the day after the failure of collecting forty Members, the House should be called over, and every Member who could not give a sufficient excuse for his absence should be taken into custody. On these three days two hours might be set apart for petitions, and from twelve o'clock to eight might be devoted to public business. He would suggest that, on the alternate days, the House should not sit at all, but that the different Committees should proceed with business.
 225
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that as it might happen that there would be something objectionable in a petition, it might not be possible, if this Resolution should be carried, to ascertain the fact previous to laying it on the Table.
 An Hon. Member  said, that the best way would be to move that the Resolution should be postponed to that day six months.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Irish Reform Bill differed in some degree, in that part of it from the English Bill, and it also, in that respect, deserved grave consideration. He wished to take that opportunity to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, when the Irish Population Returns would be ready to be laid upon the Table of the House?
 Mr. Stanley  said, that great delay had taken place in the presentation of those returns, in consequence of the House having ordered Special Returns different from those which had been made from several counties in Ireland. These Special Returns would be ready in a few days, and he believed that the whole of the Population Returns from Ireland would be ready to be laid upon the Table of the House in the course of a fortnight.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he certainly knew that corresponding clauses in the Irish Reform Bill had been interpreted in a way totally different from the meaning which the right hon. Secretary, and the legal Gentlemen employed in framing them, intended to convey by them. One of the clauses of the Irish Reform Bill specially excluded non-resident freemen from voting in cities and boroughs there, and yet one of the Irish Judges decided that the clause bore a different and totally opposite construction.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he had never heard of any decision with greater surprise than of the decision to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred. So completely at variance was it, not only with the opinion of every other legal man upon the subject but with the very letter of the Act itself, that, for the purpose of admitting these non-resident freemen to the right of voting, the Judge who made this decision was obliged to strike out the word "resident" from the certificate which they had, according to the provisions of the Act, to receive from the revising Barrister. The Judge took upon himself, as he (Mr. Stanley) thought, in the most unwarrantable manner, to strike out the word "resident," in order to admit those whom, by the use of such a word, it was obviously intended to exclude from the right of voting.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the consequence was, that 200 such voters had voted at the last Cork election.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the learned Judge in question was a most excellent individual, and one that had given his decision in this instance, as he had in
 233
 The Attorney General  did not think there was any necessity for the declaratory Act called for by the hon. member for Montgomeryshire. That House was not in the habit of interpreting or of executing the laws. Besides, as cases respecting contested elections were now pending, it would be most unconstitutional upon the part of the House to express an opinion, or to come to a decision, the result of which might be to prejudice some of those cases. A declaratory Act, such as the right hon. Gentleman wanted, would have the unjust effect of an  ex post facto
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested that it would be well to suffer the present Resolution to pass without opposition. The hon. member for Ipswich would have another and a better opportunity for submitting his Amendment to the consideration of the House, by adding something hereafter to the Resolution, which might meet his view. He agreed with that hon. Member in his observations respecting agency, and remarked that the difficulty was increased by the operation of that maxim of law which prevented a man from being obliged to answer any question which might have the effect of criminating himself—a maxim which, in his mind, ought to be brought into use very charily in all civil cases, and in election cases, ought to be abolished altogether. A Committee of that House ought to have the power of searching into every fact, and no witness should be allowed to shelter himself under a protection of this kind. He had himself several amendments to propose—one was about the interference of Peers, a second about bribery by unsuccessful candidates; for here arose many cases, that ought to be rigorously inquired into. He intended to propose a resolution for a Standing Committee, to take questions of bribery into consideration. Meantime he wished to have this Resolution passed and printed, that he might have an opportunity of framing his amendments.
 An Hon. Member  complained, that when he petitioned, after an unsuccessful contest for Pontefract, he was not allowed to prove agency and bribery together, but compelled to endeavour to establish each separately. The law which the Committee
 237
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he was anxious to take the first opportunity which had been offered him of explaining an opinion which had been erroneously attributed to him. He never had stated, and never could state, that the Reform Bill was to be the "be-all and the end-all," of all reform in the laws of the country. On the contrary, on the only occasion on which he made use of any expression which could by ingenuity or perversion be construed into such an absurdity, he stated that he conceived the Reform Bill to be the machinery by which other necessary reforms were to be carried into effect; that he considered the Reform Bill as Ministers had considered it when they introduced it, as being the machinery by which those reforms were to be worked.
 Mr. Stanley  said—"I thank the House for giving me time to remember that it is unnecessary to take any notice of the hon. Member." The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to say, that, upon the occasion referred to, he stated, as Ministers had stated in that House, that with respect to the constitution of the House of Commons, the Reform Bill was a complete and final measure; but that it was a measure by which he hoped that an honest government, supported by the cordial concurrence of the people, would effect such honest reforms and amendments of the law, as the country might think desirable and necessary for the welfare of the State. In that sense, and that only, did he and could he have ever said, that he hoped, or believed, that the Reform Bill would be a final measure.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped that, as a measure of justice, the House would permit him, notwithstanding the language of the right hon. Secretary, to declare most distinctly and solemnly, that he had not the slightest idea, whilst he was answering the question which had been asked him by an hon. Member, that one word of what he said could reach the ear of the right hon. Secretary.
 Mr. Tennyson  felt persuaded that the explanation which had just been made by
 245
 Mr. Stanley : The right hon. Gentleman has quite mistaken me.
 Mr. Tennyson  professed that he could not understand the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, if it had not the meaning which he ascribed to it. If it had not that meaning, it was nothing, and it would have been better if the right hon. Gentleman had not alluded to the question. He would, however, now proceed to the subject more immediately under the consideration of the House. He felt as much gratitude to his Majesty for the great measure of Reform as any man could entertain, but he could not permit his feelings on that subject to compromise the duty which he was called upon to perform as the Representative of an immense constituency—as a Representative of the people of England—and he would add, also, as a Representative of the people of Ireland. He trusted that he should ever
 246 247 248 249 250
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to say a few words in explanation, to which he would strictly confine himself. The hon. Member who spoke last had entirely mistaken his argument. He (Mr. Macaulay) had said, that he (Mr. O'Connell), after having detailed existing grievances in Ireland, attributed them to the Legislative Union; and that he had argued against that Union by reason of those grievances. This was a total misapprehension; for he (Mr. O'Connell) had addressed the whole of his speech to that part of the Address from the Throne which related to the great increase of disturbances in Ireland. His argument was, that property was rendered insecure, and insubordination and violence produced, by the grievances he enumerated; and so little had he said of the Union, that he had been actually taunted with having entirely left it out of the question.
 Mr. O'Connell  corrected the hon. Baronet. He had said 96,000 acres.
 Mr. O'Connell : There are twenty to speak on the question yet, who cannot possibly all speak to-night. We are not to be gagged yet.
 Colonel Davies  said, that such a Judge should be impeached.
 Colonel Davies  said, that he was not only a Member of the Committee of last Session, but, unlike, the learned Member, he had submitted many suggestions to it. He expressed his belief, that under the system proposed by the noble Lord, there never would be a full attendance of Members at the presentation of petitions unless force were resorted to. It was not likely that individuals would attend to hear discussions on petitions with which they had no concern. If, however, they were obliged to attend by force at an early hour, would they not afterwards come to the consideration of the public business wearied and tired? Besides, there were many useful professional Members of the House whose engagements would not allow them to come down. The gallant Officer then referred to the journals, and showed by certain entries of the year 1640, that repeated instances occurred where
 226 quorum
 Mr. Baldwin  thought, the only effectual mode of preventing bribery would be by establishing the ballot, and greatly extending the right of suffrage.
 Lord John Russell  wished the hon. Member to withdraw the Amendment. He considered that both it and the learned Gentleman's (Mr. O'Connell's) suggestions might be better discussed at a future time.
 Lord John Russell  said, whatever objections he might entertain to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the member for Colchester (Mr. Harvey), he certainly was bound to confess, that it was by no means deficient in that spirit of candour, for the
 283 284 285 286 l l 287 288 289
 Lord John Russell  said, that he now rose to move a Resolution which he had proposed in the last House of Commons, which that House of Commons had adopted, and which therefore was one of which he might fairly say notice had been given to the electors of the United Kingdom. The resolution which he should have to propose referred to bribery and corruption of a particular kind that was employed for the purpose of carrying elections. According to the resolutions which the House had hitherto adopted as its Standing Orders on this subject, the return of a Member could only be questioned fourteen days after the assembling of Parliament, or after his return, if the House were then sitting; and it was consequently the practice of persons who made use of bribery to secure their elections, not to make any payments till that period was passed, thereby avoiding the penalties that were attached to such conduct. With a view, therefore, of counteracting such an evil, he had three or four years ago brought forward certain resolutions, upon
 234
 Lord John Russell  hoped, that the hon. member for Middlesex would not persist in his Motion,
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that no person could, and he asserted it without fear of contradiction, feel more truly those appeals which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made to their sympathies on behalf of Ireland than he had done. He much admired the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he could not but remark how well he had practised that of which he had accused others in this debate. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had remarked on the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that in it the particular topic of the Union with Ireland had been avoided. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given a specimen of equal skill and dexterity, when he contrived to refer to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had preceded him, and yet to avoid the difficulties in which that speech had placed him. His hon. and learned friend had placed the question on two grounds; and he did not know how the hon. and learned Member could meet that speech, or could meet the great and overwhelming arguments with which his hon. friend had supported his view of the question. "What was the mode in which he had done it? He had admitted that the speech was an able speech; but had asserted, that the question before them was not one of the Union with Ireland. With great submission to that hon. and learned Gentleman, he (Mr. Grant) must say, that the question was the question of the Union. They had heard of doubtful and evasive phrases; and they were told that they must not be carried away by words; and on those grounds it was that he called on the House to recollect that this was, in fact, the question of the Repeal of the Union. It was in vain to attempt to evade that question; it was one on which the opinion of the House must be given. Well did he know why the hon. and learned Gentleman had departed from it. It was because that hon. and learned Gentleman had found it difficult, if not impossible, to meet the arguments of his hon. friend. Departing from that subject, the hon. and learned Gentleman went on to discuss questions, some of which were scarcely worthy of his eloquence or talent, and which elated chiefly to the personal
 272 273 274 275 276 277
 Mr. C W. Wynn  said, that nothing, he was well aware, would be more unconstitutional than for the House to interfere in the decisions of matters already pending. But when the Legislature passed an Act that carried on the face of it ambiguity—an ambiguity which it was the business of the law officers of the Crown to have avoided—it was the custom of the House in its best days to pass an explanatory Act to remedy that ambiguity. That was all that he now asked the noble Lord to do.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  was of opinion, that the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Ipswich, would open the door to abuse and injustice. He could easily imagine a case of bribery committed, not by an enemy, but by an indiscreet friend, without the knowledge of the Member. The hon. Member said, it was not likely that an act of bribery would be committed by
 236 ipso facto
 Mr. C. W. Wynn,  referring to the clause in the Reform Bill to which he had already drawn the attention of the House, said that it was one with regard to which there existed great difference of opinion amongst professional men. Having been a Member of the House when the Bill was passed, he was well aware of the meaning and intention of the framers of that clause, but he understood that the words employed would bear a different construction.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, that he wished to take that opportunity to ask the noble Lord whether it was his intention to bring forward a declaratory bill for the purpose of explaining that clause of the Reform Act that related to the power of presenting petitions in cases of contested elections,—to declare, for instance, that Election Committees were at liberty to entertain objections against votes which had not been raised before the revising-Barristers? The clause, as it at present stood, was involved in much doubt, and it required explanation. There were the agents of candidates, and other persons employed by them, whose votes could not be objected to before the revising Barristers, whose votes could only be objected to at the poll, and it was necessary that the powers of an Election Committee upon the point should be rendered clear and distinct, which was not the case as the clause now stood in the Reform Act. Upon the question as to the power of the Election Committee to take such objections into consideration, he knew that the opinions of very high authorities had been given both ways. They should not wait for the first decision of a Committee to be binding on the subject, as, perhaps, it would not prove to be so. His noble friend, he therefore trusted, would see the expediency of settling this question in one way or another. He knew that there would be an objection to doing so pending the decision of any petitions, and he therefore raised the question before any election petitions had been presented.
 Mr. Harvey  thought it was impossible to have listened to the speeches of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Macaulay) and of the right hon. Member (Mr. Charles Grant) without being convinced of what were the wishes and the intentions of Ministers; but he trusted that those Gentlemen would find in the Reformed House of Commons common sense enough to discriminate between specious declamation and solid argument. He complained, that Ministers had not condescended to inform the House what plans they had in contemplation for the redress of the grievances of Ireland. They seemed, however, to recognise by their silence—an eloquence sometimes as powerful as words—the justice of the charge, that they intended to place Ireland out of the pale of the Constitution, and to call upon the House of Commons to declare war against eight millions of our fellow-subjects on the mere ground of confidence in them. Such confidence he was not inclined to yield to this or to any other Administration. Before they were called upon to suspend the trial by jury—before they were called upon to agree to a measure which was to expose Catholics to trial by a Jury exclusively Protestant, and Protestants to trial by a Jury exclusively Catholic—before they allowed sectarian feelings to gain possession of the jury-box, and political animosities to poison the administration of justice, they must be told something more about the necessity of such measures, and must not pass them merely because it was
 278 "Pray, do you think that Catholic emancipation and Parliamentary reform are any objects with the common people?" "As to Catholic emancipation, I do not think it matters a feather, or that the poor people think so. As to Parliamentary reform, I do not think the common people thought of it, until it was inculcated upon them, that reform would cause a removal of the grievances they actually did feel. From that time, I believe they have become very much attached to the measure. The LORD CHANCELLOR.—What grievances would it remedy, the removal of which they would consider an improvement? EMMKTT.—In the first place, they presume that it would cause the complete abolition of tithes. In the next, that by giving the people an increased power as a democracy, it would better their situation, and make them more respected by their superiors. The condition of the poor must be ameliorated; and, what is perhaps of more importance than all the rest, a system of national education would be established. 279 LORD KILLEEN.—The abolition of tithes would be a good thing; do you not think it would be more beneficial to landlords than to tenants? EMMETT.—My Lords, I am ready to admit that, if tithes were abolished by this reform, there are landlords who would raise the rent of their tenants, on granting new leases, to the full value of the tithes. But were reform followed up by the abolition of tithes, such a reformed Legislature would very badly know, or very badly perform, its duty, if it did not establish such a system of landed tenure as would prevent landlords from doing so; and let me tell your Lordships, that if a revolution ever takes place, a different system of political economy will be established from what has hitherto prevailed. LORD GLENTWORTH.—Then your intention was to destroy the Church? EMMETT.—Pardon me, my Lord, my intention never was to destroy the Church. My wish decidedly was, to overturn the Establishment. LORD GLENTWORTH.—I understand you—and have it as it is in France? EMMETT.—As it is in America, my Lord." 280 281 * * 282 l
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, he rose under feelings of some embarrassment, to express his opinions on certain parts of the proposed Address to his Majesty. He did not entirely agree with the Motion of the learned member for Dublin—a Motion for a Committee on the whole Speech did not sufficiently mark the difference between one part of that Speech and another; at the same time, he could not persuade himself to give unqualified approbation to the Address moved by the noble Lord. There might be points relating to the affairs of this country, which, he agreed with the hon. member for Knaresborough,
 239 240 * * 241 242 243 244
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the Report would be found to contain very valuable suggestions as to the printing of petitions. That expenditure formed no small item in the expenditure of the House. The expense of printing the appendix to the votes amounted, in five years, to 12,000 l l 228
 Mr. Littleton  said, that it appeared to him a question whether the continuance of such a Committee as that upon religion was a matter of any importance whatever. He had that day spent some time in looking over the journals, and he could only discover one instance in which this
 230
 Mr. Littleton  expressed himself in favour of a delay of three weeks.
 Mr. Robinson  believed that, while there was such anxious competition for seats in Parliament, no resolution like the noble
 238
 Mr. Barron  then rose, and said, that, in justice to his constituents, he thought it necessary to say, that the disturbed state of Ireland was greatly exaggerated. He lived in that part of that country which was most disturbed, in the county of Kilkenny, where he had been a Magistrate for twelve years; and he could say, from his own knowledge, that Ireland was several times, during the last ten years, in a more disturbed state than it was at present. In his Majesty's Speech it was stated, that "a spirit of insubordination and violence had risen to the most fearful height, rendering life and property insecure, defying
 293 ipse dixit 294 Read, read Habeas Corpus. 295 296 297
 Mr. Warburton  observed that he feared Members of Parliament who were perfectly innocent might be subjected to annoyance, and perhaps expense, if the Amendment were agreed to. Bribes might be given without the knowledge of the Member; and, if a case of bribery were made out, the Member might be unseated, and the object of the honest voters might be defeated.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the reason assigned by the hon. and learned Gentleman against the passing of a declaratory law in this instance would constitute a very good reason against our having no law at all. The only question was, whether a Committee of the House, or the House itself, was the fitter body to make a new law?
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the resolution would allow the Gentleman presenting a Petition to speak three times—first, on presenting the Petition; second, on the question that it be laid on the Table; and, third, on the Motion that it be printed.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, as the petition which had just been presented embraced the principles which he had advocated on the first day of the meeting of the present Parliament, he begged to say, he was not aware that any such petition was contemplated, or would be presented, until he had been written to by the petitioners, requesting him to support its prayer. The subject he should take into his serious consideration, before he took any step towards the Repeal of the Act alluded to. Many objections had been stated to him by several hon. Members on the subject, which, with the matter itself, he should fully and deliberately weigh in his mind before he took any proceeding on the question.
 Mr. Wilks  was favourable to that part of the plan which limited Gentlemen who presented petitions to two speeches.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that he for one would never consent to waving the privileges possessed by Members on the presentation of petitions, unless the whole system with regard to petitions should be altered. The printing of petitions was often the only means of imparting most important matters to large and important constituencies. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that, whether they should adopt or reject the suggestions contained in the Report of the Committees, the law and practice of Parliament should remain the same until they had the means of taking those suggestions into consideration.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in this the first Reformed Parliament, this was a matter which deserved consideration. They must be all aware that this Committee had
 229
 Mr. Hume  said, that, under these circumstances, he would move the postponement of the Resolutions as to the Committees upon Religion, &c. until tomorrow.
 Mr. Hume  thought that it would have been well if this Report had been printed, and if the valuable suggestions which it contained with regard to the printing of petitions had been in the hands of Members before the resolution which the noble Lord had just proposed had been brought forward.
 Mr. Hume  had no objection to such a postponement.
 Mr. Hume  moved that the House do adjourn [cries of " go on
 Mr. Hume  said, that it only wanted one half hour of the time, beyond which, by a regulation lately adopted, they were not to sit. As he could not expect that all those who wished to speak to the question before the House could be heard before that hour, he hoped the regulation in question would be strictly adhered to; he could not consent to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Hume , however, agreed to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Hume : There is an hon. Member from Ireland who has never been heard in this House, and who, in the present temper of the House, cannot get a fair hearing. I therefore put it to the noble Lord, whether we are not, in fairness, bound to give that hon. Member an opportunity of obtaining a hearing? I must persist in my Motion that the House do adjourn
 Mr. Sheil  said, there was a practical antithesis, amounting to contradiction, in the course pursued by the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Macaulay); for while he entered into a most elaborate discussion on the Union, which he assumed was unpremeditated, he supported an Address which recommended the extinction of all argument, put an end to the debate, struck Ireland dumb, and clapped a padlock on her lips, though it never could stop the throbbings of her big and indignant heart. What a strange proceeding on the part of the member for Leeds—to discuss the question himself, and to deny eight millions the right to entertain it—to recommend the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 265 mal-apropos O'Connell. 266 Hansard * * 267 Habeas Corpus 268 à la Saurin innuendo 269 Habeas Corpus 270 l l d. d 271
 Mr. Rigby Wason  contended that the Member who had been guilty of no bribery
 235
 Mr. Rigby Wason  expressed his opinion that it did not go sufficiently far to be effectual; and moved the following amendment:—"That when a Petition against the return of any Member shall contain an allegation that such return has been effected by bribery and corruption, it is the duty of the Select Committee appointed to try the merits of such petition, to receive the evidence which may be offered in support of such allegation, without requiring the petitioners to prove that such bribery or corruption was practised by the sitting Member or his agents."
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that last night he had formed the intention of not taking part in the present debate; but circumstances which had this evening arisen determined him to adopt an opposite course, and to say a few words in reply to the attack which had been made upon him by his hon. friend, the member for Lincoln; at the same time that he felt that he should quite as well discharge the duty which he owed to himself, and much better consult what was due to the House, by postponing the defence of his own personal consistency until after he had more directly addressed himself to the question which mainly occupied the attention of the House. His hon. friend, so ingenious in the construction of an argument, and so successful in making a point, was sometimes not always aware of the effect of the words which he used. His hon. friend told the House that the Government proposed coercion, while the hon. and learned member for Dublin recommended redress. When called upon to choose between both, the hon. member for Lincoln declared that he could not hesitate; but he was sure that, upon reflection, his hon. friend would see that he and the hon. and learned member for Dublin did not attach the same meaning to the words which the one was the first to use, and that the other had but too readily adopted. The hon. and learned member for Dublin meant Repeal of the Union—to that his hon. friend was averse. When they were told that the question of the Union of Ireland was not to be sneered down till after the most complete investigation, till after the fullest inquiry, and after the gravest debate, he could not help putting the question, whose fault was it that they had no full and formal debate upon the subject? Why was it that the question had not been fully agitated? Had not his Majesty's Government given the challenge, and was it not fully in the recollection of the House, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had addressed them for two or three hours—he forgot how long, for no one could consider the time long while
 251 252 253 254 255 it a priori 256 257 258 post hoc propter hoc versus 259 à fortiori 260 261 262 263 264
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he felt great anxiety on the question of Ireland, and knowing the sentiments of his constituents upon it, he confessed that he also felt great regret that he had heard nothing in his Majesty's Speech that tended to remove that anxiety. He felt assured, that it was not by coercion that a proper feeling was to be reinstated between England and Ireland. He was sure they could not effect a peace in Ireland by a system of terror. They might gain the battle by the force of numbers, but would they gain a victory? No; but they would ensure for themselves a perfect and mortal hatred on the part of the whole Irish nation. They should recollect another thing, in all the measures which might be proposed, on account of the state of that country—that the measures should be based on sound and enlarged principles, and not dealt out in petty and paltry portions, which could never be expected to give satisfaction to the parties intended to be benefitted. He recollected, that at the time when Catholic emancipation was granted, it was declared to be a final measure; but he was convinced, even at that very time, that it could not be final; for, as long as there was a predominant Church in Ireland, the people of that country would never consider any measure a final one, which left that Church predominant, with which not one-sixteenth part of the inhabitants coincided in belief. There were other subjects of great importance, which required attentive consideration—he meant that of free trade to India, to which the people of this country had an unquestionable right. He hoped the time was fast approaching, when that trade should be thrown open, and a regular
 290
 The Speaker  said, the Resolution only conceded the right to speak twice. In the first instance, the Member would only state the contents of the petition and its prayer; it would be then read at the Table, and no Member would be allowed
 227
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that he was perfectly in accord with the hon. member for Ipswich, and the hon. Member who had spoken last, as to the insufficiency of the Resolution for the important object it had in view; but as the attention of the House was more immediately drawn to another subject of great moment, he trusted the hon. member for Ipswich would withdraw his Amendment for the present. It might be, at a more fitting time, taken into consideration, together with the hints thrown out by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He had also himself to suggest that it might be expedient on the same occasion to consider the question of intimidation at elections. The great object of the English law on the subject was, that elections should be free; and he begged to throw out that it would become that House, to take the matter into their most serious consideration at this period. He would also suggest that, in addition to the hon. Member's Amendment, there might be a resolution passed to the effect that each Member of the House, on taking the oaths at the Table, should make a declaration that he had neither, by himself nor agents, been guilty of any bribery, nor was he aware that any money had been paid in bribes on his account; nor would he at any future time bribe by himself or others.
 The Solicitor General  had been requested by his constituents to report the Bill for the Repeal of the Speaker's pension; but, as there was no such Bill, the matter, as far as he was concerned, dropped to the ground.
 The Solicitor General  presented a Petition most numerously signed by the inhabitants
 218
 The Solicitor General  said, that the reason assigned by the right hon. member for Montgomeryshire for the passing of a declaratory act did not at all prove the necessity of such an act, for no law could be so framed that it would not admit of different constructions. He had no doubt that his learned friends at the bar would contrive, no matter how plainly and obviously a law was framed, to find out different constructions for it. He hoped that the decision on any questions arising out of this clause would be left to the legitimate tribunal—an Election Committee. If a declaratory act were to be passed in this instance, they would have declaratory
 232
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that he was
 219
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that previous to the speech from the hon. member for Liverpool, with the exception of a few words from the hon. members for Lincoln and Knaresborough, little had been said in the course of the last two nights' debates, on any other subject but Ireland. A stranger coming into the House would be apt to think, that the darling question of the hon. member for Dublin—the Repeal of the Union—had been already carried, and that they were then sitting in deliberation on College Green. The hon. member for Knaresborough had said a few words on the subject of our internal policy, nothing however had been said by any one else (with the exceptions he mentioned) on the subject of Ireland alone. Now, though he did not deny that Ireland was entitled to a fair proportion of consideration in that House, he denied that it was entitled to a monopoly. They had heard the errors of the Government, and the misery of that country discussed in detail; and they had heard remedies for these evils discussed, without knowing anything of what the Government proposed to do in regard to them. He thought, however, that there were other most important subjects in the proposed Address, which likewise demanded the attention of the House. There was especially that of the United Church Establishment. All who heard the sentiments expressed by several hon. Members must see that the Established Church was in danger. He should have believed it impossible that such a system of spoliation could ever have been meditated as he heard recommended by several Members during the present and previous night's debate; and more especially by the hon. member for Lanark. Such a system could never be pursued regarding either branch of the Church, without shaking it to its very foundation. It would be the prelude of the destruction of all property in tithes, whether ecclesiastical or lay. The result, he felt convinced, would be, that no stop could be put to the spirit of innovation till there was an Agrarian Law introduced. He thought he had good reason to feel
 291
 Sir Robert Inglis  was glad to be corrected by the hon. Member, as it showed that the hon. and learned Member had not spoken without premeditation; but he cautioned the House not to believe that the amount stated by the hon. Member, as being the measure of the revenue derived by the Prelate in question, was correct. He considered it singular that no allusion had been made in his Majesty's Speech to subjects of a domestic nature, which he thought should not have been omitted. Nothing had been said of our having got rid of that dire scourge, the Cholera Morbus, or of the abundance of the late harvest. He, however, felt grateful to the noble Lord opposite for the form of prayer which had been introduced in reference to these subjects. But this did not supersede the propriety of the Sovereign adverting to them in his Address to his people. Nothing was said of this being a new Parliament: nothing of its being a Parliament under a new Constitution. However lengthy (to use the American phrase) the Speech might be considered, he thought that there were ample materials of importance omitted to have at least doubled its length. He had already alluded to two or three connected with internal policy. He would only very briefly refer to the omission of all notice of the great events now passing in the Levant—events which might throw the Belgian question into insignificance—and to the omission of all reference to the vast question of Negro Slavery; of which, without now giving any opinion upon it, he might at least say that it was not undeserving the attention of the House. As on all these subjects there would hereafter
 292
 Sir Robert Peel  said, if an arrangement could be made really conducive to the convenience of Members, and which would have the effect of expediting the business of the House, he certainly should, without hesitation, agree to it. The plan which was now proposed required, in his mind, much consideration, and he did not think that he was at all premature in making some observations on it thus early. It should be recollected that there were now in that House 300 new Members who possessed very little experience; and was it right, without further consideration, that they should adopt such an arrangement? If they called on those new Members for their concurrence, they themselves, perhaps, would doubt whether they were competent to decide on such a question. He very much doubted whether they had read the Report of the Committee of last Session—a Committee which was composed of individuals most deeply experienced in the business of the House. He did not ask any one to decide on the merits of the new plan; but he would demand of the House whether those who came there with very little experience of parliamentary business were competent to decide on it at that moment? If the noble Lord proposed that public business should commence  bonâ fide 223 224
 Sir Robert Peel  concurred in thinking that the suggestions contained in the Report were of a most valuable description. He thought, however, that it would be better to let the law and practice of Parliament remain as they were upon the subject of petitions until that Report had been printed and read by hon. Members, in order that they might be able to determine what alterations it would be desirable to introduce. He did not mean to object to the alterations proposed by the noble Lord; but he repeated that it appeared to him, that it would be better to let the law and practice of Parliament on the subject remain the same for a fortnight, and that then the House should come to a decision upon it.
 Sir J. Fremantle  thought it would be better to postpone the consideration of the subject for three weeks.
 Lord Althorp  next moved the following resolution—"That when the contents of a petition have been opened, and the prayer stated by the Member who may have the charge of such petition, Mr. Speaker do de-sire such Member to bring the same to the Table, and do then direct the clerk to read it, without allowing any other Member to speak, or putting any question upon such petition, before the same shall have been read, unless it should appear to Mr. Speaker, or to any Member, that the matter of such petition was in breach of the privilege of the House, or that, according to the rules and orders of the House, such petition ought not to be received; in which cases the question 'That the petition be brought up' be put and agreed to, before such petition be brought up."
 Lord Althorp  said, that there would not be more difficulty in ascertaining that fact than there was at present, for as the usage at present stood, they could only tell what were the contents of a petition from the speech of the Member that presented it, unless there happened to be an adjourned debate upon it.
 Lord Althorp  moved that the Report of the Committee of last Session, appointed to inquire into the printing expenditure of the House, should be printed.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in rising to propose the Sessional Orders for the present year, he did not apprehend it was necessary now to enter into the discussion of all, as he intended first to propose an order to which due regard must be had, as it related to the business of the House. There was no duty more imperative or important than that of hearing the petitions of the people, and he was sure that when he addressed himself to those hon. Members who sat in the last Parliament, they were well aware of the great inconvenience arising from the mode in which petitions were then presented. It was inconvenient, not only as regarded the consideration of the petitions themselves, but equally so from the interference that arose to the other legislative functions of the House. The evils which had arisen it had been endeavoured, during the last Parliament, to remedy, and various modes had been proposed—one, that the order of presenting petitions should be fixed by ballot, but this had not been found effective. That system, moreover, was not consonant to the feelings of many Members. The fact was, that great difficulty was experienced in the presentation of petitions. Members attended, day after day, for weeks together, without the possibility of presenting petitions intrusted to them. It was suggested that petitions might be presented after the regular notices and orders of the House were concluded; but it was quite clear that petitions of special interest and importance could not be presented at such a time with any effect—certainly their contents could not be discussed. In consequence of the difficulty by which the subject was beset, a right hon. Baronet called for the appointment of a Committee to examine it. A Committee was accordingly appointed to inquire in what manner the business
 220 de die in diem 221 222
 Lord Althorp  was willing, after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, to postpone the debate, not for three weeks, but till this day fortnight.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he agreed with the hon. Gentleman in the opinion that this was not the time to discuss the subject of those Committees. The first Resolution which he had just proposed as to the Committee upon Religion did not press in point of time, neither did the Resolutions as to the appointment of the Committee on Grievances, and the Committee upon Courts of Justice. These Resolutions might be discussed at any other period as well as now, and therefore, there could be no objection to postpone them, if the hon. Gentleman should wish for their postponement. But the Resolutions which followed respecting elections did press, and it was necessary that they should be discussed this evening.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the better way was to postpone these Resolutions until to-morrow, and then to discuss them. He did not mean, at the same time, to say that he would be opposed to an indefinite postponement of them.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not apprehend that there were any doubts as to the meaning of the clause in question that could render a declaratory act of Parliament necessary at the present time. He was of opinion that any questions that might be raised as to the construction of that clause should be referred to the decision of their legitimate tribunal—an Election Committee. He certainly did not think that any declaratory act of Parliament was required on the subject.
 Lord Althorp  observed, in reply, that if it could be proved that any Member had, in pursuance of a promise given before his election, paid money to a voter, no matter if it were five years after, in his opinion, that Member should forfeit his seat.
 Lord Althorp  hoped that the hon. Member would not persist in his Motion. He was quite satisfied that the House was ready to give the hon. Member to whom the hon. member for Middlesex alluded, a patient and attentive hearing. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. member for Middlesex would consent to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell attached great weight and importance to the petition. It came from a Protestant Society, having for its object the protection of religious liberty. He represented a constituency of a different persuasion. But he and his constitu-
 311
 Mr. Stanley  begged to explain, that in the case alluded to (that of Baron Pennefather), the decision of the revising Barrister was subject to appeal, and upon that principle the Judge made the decision complained of.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  said, it appeared to him that the hon. member for Middlesex proceeded on the supposition, that what had been, and was at present, was to continue. He could not take that view of the question. He stood in that House totally unconnected with the Government, and was as independent as any man in the House, but he, in his conscience, believed that Ministers would do for Ireland what the situation of the country required. Was Ireland to be governed by force? God forbid! Mankind could not be governed by force in the present age. But why should the House suppose that Ministers intended to govern Ireland by force? The words "additional powers" would bear another interpretation. He thought it was unfair and ungenerous to stop Ministers by this debate from carrying the Address up to the Crown. Was it possible that the Government could state what measures they intended to propose upon the Motion for an Address to the Crown? He placed confidence in the honest inten-
 337
 Mr. O'Connell  spoke to order. He wished to know whether it was constitutional in that House to suggest the possibility of the appointment of a Dictator?
 Mr. O'Connell : What? To the suggestion of the appointment of a Dictator over Ireland!
 Mr. Stanley : I beg the hon. Member's pardon—he has been misinformed—such is not the fact.
 Mr. Stanley : When?
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to correct a mistake. It gave him the greatest pain to imagine that he was capable of casting reflections on any creed, but more especially on that of the very House which, when wholly composed of Protestants, had emancipated him. His expression was literally this, and no more—that he hoped to see the day when, as soon as the Protestant Irish Members set out from Christchurch for the House of Commons, in College-green, the Catholic Members would leave Towns-end-street Chapel for the same place.
 Mr. Ruthven  moved an Adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. Lamb  had no hesitation in informing the House, that the memorial in question, and others upon the same subject, had been under the consideration of Government, who thought the best way was to instruct the Commissioners who were now inquiring into the Poor laws, to extend their inquiries into that subject. That was the state in which the case was
 312
 Major Beauclerk  felt it his duty, as a Member of that House, and the Representative of one of the most populous counties of England, to warn the House of the precipice to which they would approach, if they were to persevere in the course of conduct towards Ireland which was recommended in the Speech. He had, indeed, hoped that Ministers, on coming before the first Reformed Parliament, would have framed a speech suited to the taste of the people, and not one which was only worthy of being delivered to one of the old Unreformed Parliaments. It would have given him the greatest pleasure to have been able to support the Ministers if they had afforded him an opportunity of doing so, but he would ask how it was possible for Members who had been sent into that House in order to see retrenchment and reform carried into every department of the State, to give their support to a speech from the Throne in which retrenchment was never mentioned from beginning to
 338 A laugh 339 340
 Mr. Finch  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord opposite; whether or not his Majesty's Government intended to bring forward any measure for the suppression of Political Unions?
 Mr. Finch : I must then express my regret at the conduct of the Government, which has most unwarrantably allowed these bodies to act in a most unconstitutional manner.
 Mr. Tancred  said, that it was his wish to support the Address, and he should certainly do so; but he desired, at the same time, to explain the grounds of his vote, in order that his conduct might be understood both in and out of that House, and throughout the whole empire. He had listened with the utmost patience to the eloquent speeches of those Members for different places in Ireland who had spoken on this occasion, to all who had argued as
 342
 Mr. Tancred  continued: The House and the hon. and learned Gentleman might be equally assured, that he had used the expression without the slightest wish to give offence to any one; and if it did give offence, he would not repeat the obnoxious name. He had only, in the course of his argument, wished to express the idea that he would appoint some great character in whom the country had confidence, and tell him to see  ne quid respublica detrimenti capere mouvement mouvement 344 345 l l 346
 Mr. Wilks  objected to any limitation of the privileges of Members on the subject of printing petitions. He thought any attempt to preclude printing of petitions, recommended either by the body from whence they came, or by the magnitude of the subject to which they referred, interfered not only with the rights of the House, but with those of the general constituency. Rather, however, than occupy, at present, the attention of the House, he would adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and withdraw the petition for a few days.
 Mr. Wilks presented a Petition from the Committee of the Protestant Society for the Protection of Religious Liberty, in favour of the complete Emancipation of the Jews. He had no doubt that this was but the first of many petitions which would be I presented upon the subject, and he trusted that their prayer would be complied with. By the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Act, the Jews were now exposed to particular hardships, for they were unable, if the laws were enforced against them, to resist the penalties from which they used I formerly to be cleared in common with other Dissenters, by the annual Bill of Indemnity, The exclusion of the Jews was the last fragment of a barbarous system of intolerance, which was a disgrace to our jurisprudence, and which last fragment would, he hoped, be now swept away.
 Mr. Wilks  moved that it be printed.
 Mr. Hume  rose and said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Oxford, that any stranger who had been witness to the two days' debate which had occupied that House, would imagine that the sole duty for which the British Parliament was assembled, was that of deliberating on Irish matters alone. It was his intention, however, to endeavour to draw the House back to what, on the present occasion, was the real business before them. When, however, he complained of the great portion of time which had been occupied by Irish affairs, he must say that he did not think it was the fault of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, or the Irish Members; for a more pointed attack on that hon. Gentleman than had been made, he had never before witnessed in that House. He regretted extremely that the time of those who moved the Address, should have been taken up in attacking the motives and notions of the hon. Gentleman—not for any alleged breach of duty in that House—but for his conduct elsewhere. The House had much reason to complain of the manner in which the Speech had been introduced. Scarcely one single syllable fell from the mover's lips respecting either England or Scotland. It appeared, indeed, as if he was not aware that any such nations existed. He would state his view of what he believed to be the duties now imposed upon the House. At no period of our history was so much ever expected from any Parliament, as by the people of the United Empire from the present; yet, he would venture to say, that never, since he had been in Parliament, had he heard a Speech delivered from the Throne, in which so little notice was taken of those great and important subjects which now occupied the attention of the whole community. Except those sentences which touched upon the Church, and one or two
 313 * * 314 315 316 317 318 319 l 320 321 322 323 324
 Mr. Hume  continued: The hon. member for Waterford (Mr. Barron) had stated that the people of Ireland had no confidence in the administration of the law—that they did not think justice was done. It was the duty of Ministers to take some notice of so crying an evil. Some explanation should at least be given on the subject, either to show that such a grievance did not exist, or to say that some means would be taken to remedy it. Could any man who had listened to the statements of the hon. and learned member for Dublin think if such grievances existed in England, that Englishmen would be such slaves as tamely to continue submissive to such a tyranny; and could they therefore think it strange that Irishmen should not be quiet? In that House he had heard promises made that certain grievances should be corrected. He himself had received an answer to that effect, on putting a question respecting tithes. Yet the petitions lay on the Table, and no further notice was taken of the matter. Now, Ministers either had or had not the power to remedy the grievances of Ireland. If they had not the power to do what they considered right, and what they were pledged to do, they ought not to continue in office a day longer; if they had the power, they ought at least, to give some explanation to the country why the measures which they stood pledged to carry were not carried. Why had they allowed
 325 * * 326 * l * † Ibid. p. 55. 327 * * 328 329 330 331 332 333 334 335 336
 Mr. Robert Palmer  was glad to find the memorial was in the hands of the Commissioners, and was satisfied to take no step upon the subject, until they should make their Report.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lamb), which was of great importance to the county which he represented (Berks), and to many others. The right hon. Gentleman would recollect, that about twelve months ago a memorial had been presented from that county, as to the passing of Irish vagrants, and he wished to know if any steps had been taken to alter the law, and thereby relieve the counties from such a heavy burthen?
 Mr. Robert Steuart  wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The noble Lord had given notice of a motion on a most important subject—the state of the existing Corporations in England and Wales, The question then he meant to put, was, whether there was any similar bill in contemplation for the Scottish burghs?
 Mr. Cobbett : If the doctrine of the hon. Gentleman who has last spoken be good, then there is no remedy at all for Ireland; and it would be as well to say at once, that a military dictation should take place, and Ireland be ruled in that manner. Why, however, in that case, such a fuss about parting with Ireland? If it be good for nothing, why not let it go? If she be the poor and worthless thing that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Tancred) has described her, why not leave her to herself? You are monstrous loath to part with her. However, the hon. Gentleman has fallen into a great error. He has followed the steps of the hon. member for Knares-borough: but, besides this, he comes to us piping hot from the lectures of Sir Henry Parnoll. The schoolmaster is abroad—abroad he is indeed—but, now, it seems, he is at home—and has been the tutor of the hon. Gentleman on the floor. There never was a falser doctrine in the world than that held up to us by the hon. Member. He assumes, that, because Ireland has exported more since the Union than before it, that therefore, in that same proportion, Ireland is more prosperous than before the Union; and the right hon. Secretary, taking the argument from the hon. member for Knaresborough, availed himself of all the advantage that could be derived from it, and the well-stationed and well-disciplined battalion behind him echoed and cheered what he said. What is the fact then? I lament to say that the hon. Member—[Mr. Cobbett here turned round and said inquiringly, "He is not here."]—I lament to say, that my hon.
 347 d d d 348 Richards 349 "We have talked about it, and about it, 'Till e'en believers seem to doubt it." 350 351 352 order Stanley 353 354 355 356 357
 Mr. Finn did not intend to trouble the House, but after the allusions which had been made to the intentions of Ministers, he must protest warmly against the abolition of the Trial by Jury in Ireland which could only be intended to stifle public discussion. Hon. Members, when they talked of a Repeal of the Union, seemed to regard it as a matter wholly visionary. He remembered a conversation which he had with a friend a short time before he left Ireland, in the course of which that Gentleman said to him, how could his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, expect that, in bringing forward a motion for the Repeal of the Union, he should find one man in that House to second him? How did the fact now stand? Were there not at the present moment as many as forty or fifty decided repealers in the House? And was it not equally true, that there were six-and-twenty more who were pledged to that
 358 359 l 360
 Mr. Finn resumed. The authority upon which he made that statement was Parliamentary Returns laid before the House.
 Mr. Finn : In the year 1825. He had made the statement from that which he considered to be authentic documents, and he should have been very happy to refer them to more recent information, if any later returns had been made. He could not, however; but it could not be disputed that the police force in Ireland was composed of materials selected in anything but an impartial spirit; and they could never hope to subdue the spirit of discontent in that country so long as that system remained unchanged; neither could an improved condition of the people of Ireland be expected, so long as 5,000,000 l 361 venue 362
 Mr. Finn (interrupting the noble Lord), I did not intend to convey to the House any such meaning as the noble Lord has attributed to me, and my hon. friends near me tell me that my words did not convey that meaning. I only conceived a possible case, in which, if Government proceeded with their measures to a certain extent, they might produce the lamentable result of resistance.
 Mr. O'Reilly  wished to know whether the inquiry would extend to Irish Corporations?
 Mr. Hall was sorry Mr. O'Connell had thought proper to move an Amendment, for hereafter there would be more time and more fitting opportunities for discussing the matters referred to in the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech. He should support the Address, because he placed confidence in Ministers, judging them, as it was only fair to judge them, by their
 341
 The Speaker : I am inclined to think that the hon. and learned Gentleman, in the warmth of his feeling, somewhat misunderstands what has been stated. There was no recommendation to appoint a Dictator. What was stated, was stated hypothetically; and, if I recollect rightly, it was only yesterday that some suggestion of the same kind was made with respect to a king of Ireland.
 The Speaker  begged to know to what the hon. and learned Member objected, and then he would give his opinion,
 Sir Robert Inglis said, that notice had been given of a Motion most important to the Church. He, therefore, wished to know, was it intended by Ministers previously to lay before the House such information, papers, and documents, as were necessary to enable Members to come to a right conclusion?
 Sir Robert Inglis objected to the presenting of the petition, on the ground that it purported to come from a Committee, and not from a public body; and also because it would occasion discussion, which would be inconsistent with the arrangement entered into last night on the subject of printing petitions.
 Sir Robert Peel said, as this was the third night of the debate upon the Address in answer to the King's Speech, he hoped he might congratulate the House on its now approaching the close of the debate. ["No," from Mr. O'Connell]. Well, then, if the hon. and learned Member denied that they were even approaching it, then there was no alternative but to admit that they were either going back or beating time, and making no progress whatever. He (Sir Robert Peel) should be unwilling to let this discussion come to a termination without making a few observations on some of the principal topics contained
 367 368 369 370 from Mr. O'Connell and Members in his neighbour hood 371 372 373 l 374 375 Hon. Member: O'Connell: 376 377 from Mr. O'Connell 378 379 380 381 382 383 384 385 386
 Lord Althorp  said, it was not intended to submit any papers to the House previous to the Motion. But, in due time, every information would be furnished, that the discussion might be full and satisfactory. The Motion would be founded on general principles.
 Lord Althorp  doubted the propriety of including them in the same Committee with those of England. To a separate Committee he should have no objection.
 Lord Althorp  had given notice that he intended to move for a Committee of Inquiry into the corporations of England and Wales, As to the Scotch burghs, the Lord Advocate, had he been in his place on Tuesday last, would have given notice of a motion for leave to bring in a bill concerning them,
 Lord Althorp  said, it was not his intention to bring forward any such measure.
 Lord Althorp moved the Order of the Day for proceeding with the Adjourned Debate on the Address.
 Lord Ebrington  was satisfied with the explanation of the hon. Member, and hoped that the hon. Member would acquit him of intentional misrepresentation. He rejoiced that His Majesty's Speech did call upon the House for a decided opinion upon the question of the Repeal of the Union. That point was the only point on which the House was pledged in the Address, and he had no doubt that the House would willingly declare its determination to maintain the Legislative Union between the two countries, and thereby to protect from dismemberment the integrity of the British Empire.
 Lord Ebrington  said it was not his purpose to trespass long on the patience of the House, but having been personally appealed to by the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, to explain how he could reconcile his support of the present address with a declaration made by him in the course of the last Session, he hoped the House would bear with him whilst he stated the grounds which induced him to give his vote in favour of the proposed address. If his Majesty's Speech had simply called for power to put an end to those outrages in Ireland (which were admitted on all hands to exist to a frightful extent, and which imperatively required the strong hand of the law to repress), without at the same time holding out any promise of a redress of grievances, he for one should not have been able to give the present Address his support; but when he looked to the words of the Speech with respect to Ireland,—when he found it stated that an inquiry was to be instituted into the state of the Irish church with a view to its reformation, and when he bore in mind the speeches made by his hon. friends below him, and by all those who were connected with Government,—when
 363 364 365 366
 Mr. Baring  concurred in the proposition of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would not, therefore, protract the discussion; but he begged to ask, whether it would not be desirable for the Committee to inquire whether the hon. Gentleman, the member for South Durham, objected to the form of the oaths, or to take any oath.
 An Hon. Member  was convinced, that many of the statements made on this subject were greatly exaggerated; and he conceived that the manufacturers should have an opportunity of entering on their defence, which had not yet been granted to them.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, it was not his intention to trouble the House at that length of which they were, perhaps, apprehensive. He should, however, fail in the duty which he owed to those by whom he was sent into that House if he did not address them. That was his sole motive, for there could be little personal pleasure in addressing them, since he could add little to what had already been said by those who had spoken on the subject of Ireland, especially to what had fallen from his hon. and learned colleague, the member for Dublin. In all that had been said by that hon. and learned Gentlemen he fully concurred, he should not, therefore, dilate on those subjects which he had so ably illustrated, but confine himself to remarks on the observations of the Gentleman who had spoken on the other side of the question. The Irish Members were charged with having brought forward this question for the purpose of attacking his Majesty's Ministers. That, however, was not the
 394 395 396 Habeas Corpus 397 398
 Mr. Ruthven  was by no means inclined to charge the House with a want of kind feeling. Adverting to the speech which had been made last night by a right hon. Baronet who had formerly held a high situation in his Majesty's Councils, he confessed his conviction, that the greater part of that speech was calculated to be more generally beneficial, and to do that right hon. Baronet more credit than any speech which he had made while he sat on the Treasury Bench. The statements of the right hon. Baronet were greatly in favour of the Parliamentary Reform which had just been effected; for he had observed that the House was formerly divided into two contending parties—Whigs and Tories, each of which took up a kind of military position, and contended for the possession of the loaves and fishes. The right hon. Baronet now, however, described himself as an independent Member, whose duty it was to support the Crown, when, in his opinion, the Crown ought to be supported, and to defend the rights of the people when those rights were attacked. Nothing could be more laudable. The right hon. Baronet, however, fell into a mistake when he spoke of attempts being made to ruin the character of the right hon. Chief Secretary for Ireland. He denied that such an attempt was made by his hon. and learned colleague or his friends. They entertained a great respect for the talents of the right hon. Gentleman, and for the rank and large possessions of his family; but they regretted that, notwithstanding those talents, and notwithstanding the rank and
 399
 Mr. Baring  was satisfied with the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Strickland  supported the prayer of the petition, and confining his support to its object; he trusted, notwithstanding the difficulties of the question of Negro Slavery in the West Indies, that the subject would be brought to a speedy and satisfactory termination.
 An Hon. Member  observed, that whatever might be the measure for the relief of infants passed by the House, the thanks of the country were due to Mr. Sadler for having been the first to bring forward the great and important question.
 Mr. O'Connell  could not remain silent on this important question, notwithstanding the maxim of non-interference between master and servant. There was, however, a maxim in law that minors should be protected, and the law was bound to protect them. It was truly horrible to read the evidence adduced of the nature and extent of infant labour in factories, if that evidence was true, and it was not contradicted. He joined in the entreaties put forth to hon. Gentlemen to read that evidence, and a measure such as proposed would most certainly have their support.
 Colonel Torrens  rose, with great reluctance and with considerable pain, to state in a few words the reasons which rendered it impossible for him to vote for the Address. The House had been frequently told that Mr. Canning's beau ideal of a Speech from the Throne was, that it should be couched in language so indefinite and vague as to convey no meaning. On this the third night of the
 413 414 415 margin 416 417 418
 Mr. Stanley  [interrupting the hon. Member]: I am too much in the habit of having my expressions misrepresented to be surprised at what has just, occurred. However often those misrepresentations may be explained, however often they may be refuted, they are still repeated, until I am almost tempted to believe that those who repeat them absolutely believe that they heard me make use of the expressions on which they have placed their own misconstructions. Though I have been much used, too much used, to this practice, I cannot allow myself to remain silent under the present charge; and I here assert that I never used the expression which the hon. Gentleman has attributed to me—that I never called either for war to the knife, or for war to the death. It may be very convenient to publish in the Irish newspapers—it may be very convenient to repeat in harangues in Ireland—that the Secretary for Ireland is a person who has threatened the people of that country with war to the knife, or with war to the death. Therefore here, before all the assembled Representatives of England, Scotland, and Ireland, who heard what I did say, I repeat again that I never made use of the expression which the hon. Member has attributed to me. What I did say was this—that considering, as I did, the Repeal of the Legislative Union between the two countries to be equivalent to the dismemberment and destruction of the empire, I would, if need were, resist it to the death.
 Mr. O' Dwyer  then continued: "I make the right hon. Secretary a present of his explanation. Probably it may proceed from the obtuseness of my Hibernian intellect; but I cannot understand the distinction
 425 Laughter. Member:
 Mr. Stanley  wished to explain what he had then stated; and he reminded them that the expression fell from him in answer to a question from a right hon. Gentleman not now in Parliament (Mr. Croker), whether the Government intended to extinguish tithe, or to effect an alteration in the mode of collecting tithe. His (Mr. Stanley's) answer applied to the system.—["No, no,"  from Mr. O'Connell and others *
 Captain York  said, that the arguments urged by the hon. Member who had just sat down were the precise cause of his rising to address the House. That hon. Gentleman said, there were a variety of Motions to be brought forward which, alone, would occupy Parliament for a year; and these Motions were of such a description that they tended to overwhelm the Constitution. At such a moment, when a feeling was abroad likely to excite the public mind, he thought it his duty to support the Government, in order to strengthen the Administration; but he by no means pledged himself to the approval of all the sentiments contained in the Address. Looking to the foreign policy of Ministers, he could not agree with them. As to that part also which related to the Irish Church, anything tending to separate Irish Protestant interests from English Protestant interests should never meet with support from him. He was sent, by a large and respectable constituency, a free, unshackled Member to Parliament; and he should best consult their feelings and his own when he supported law and order, and on every occasion strengthened the Administration when it was oppressed by hon. Members of principles similar to those held by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken.
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  said, it was with extreme reluctance he rose on this occasion, but his duty as an Irish Representative would not allow him to give a silent support to the original Motion. A complaint had been made, that Ministers did not detail the Measures intended for the relief of Ireland; but the contrary was the fact, for the King's Speech not only contained a recommendation to reform the abuses of the Church—to correct the vicious system of tithes—but that these measures should be accompanied with such others as might be deemed beneficial to Ireland. He denied therefore, that the King's Speech was the
 455
 Mr. Tennyson  then said, that the people of Ireland were looking anxiously towards the Reformed Parliament for some measures of relief, and he thought the House was bound to give them some assurance, that their expectations would not be disappointed, and that a favourable disposition existed in the House towards that much oppressed people. After the statement, however, made by several hon. Members, he was afraid the condition of Ireland would be found such, that, in mercy to the people of that country, it might be right to strengthen, for a period, the Executive authority. It would, however, in his opinion, be expedient for the House to show distinctly, upon the face
 456 457
 Mr. Walker  did not mean to deny, that excesses had been committed in Ireland, and that the law must be put in vigorous execution in order to suppress them. The difference between himself and the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last was, that he considered the existing law was sufficient for the purpose, and that that hon. Gentleman wanted a vigour beyond the law to be exerted. But, because excesses were committed, were they to surrender the Constitution? As the Union did exist, let the Irish have its benefits—let them be treated like British subjects, and not outlawed. Because there were miscreants in Ireland, was every Irishman to be put out of the pale of the law? And was Trial by Jury to be abolished? The hon. and learned member for Dublin University had drawn a moving picture of the excesses
 449 d d 450 451 Stanley: Stanley: 452
 Lord Ashley  was happy to hear the declaration of his noble friend, and felt satisfied that nothing discourteous had been contemplated on his part. Looking to the evidence which had been adduced before the Committee of last year upon the subject of infant labour, he (Lord Ashley) had felt it his duty to call the attention of the Legislature to the subject;
 392
 Lord Ashley  was willing to believe that all the mill-proprietors were anxious to relax as much as possible the labour of the children. He conceived, nevertheless, that the children required the protection of that House. They ought not to be employed more than ten hours a-day.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, the prejudices of the country had been most strongly, and not very justly, directed against the manufacturers. The consequence of the outcry was, that they had
 393
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the Speech of the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough was the most extraordinary that had been delivered during the debate. The hon. Member had deprecated the personalities that had occurred during the debate, and the whole Speech of the hon. Member was distinguished by the expression of the most arrogant personalities that had been interchanged on either side of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had assumed to himself a duty rather novel in that House; he was the corrector of manners and the teacher of elocution; the hon. Member quarrelled with the politics of some hon. Members from Ireland, with the manners of others, and the elocution of all. The hon. Member had been unsparing of his vituperation of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. Probably it would surprise the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough to be informed that, in the course of his agitating career, the hon. member for Dublin had been subject to the attacks of many antagonists not inferior in power even to the hon. member for Knaresborough, and still, as the House could bear witness, the member for Dublin survived the assaults, and, to all appearance, disregarded them. He could assure the hon. Member, and the Government which that hon. Member supported, that the more violently his hon. and learned friend was attacked, the more he rose in the estimation of the people of Ireland. The hon. Member had charged his hon. and learned friend with being difficult to be satisfied. Truly, he was difficult to be satisfied. They had passed an Insurrection Act, and they now proposed to pass a Gagging Act; and yet his hon. and learned friend was so unreasonable as not to be contented. His hon. and learned friend was also charged with agitation—agitation, which the hon. member for Bodmin had admitted might be very proper under certain circumstances. What circumstances were they? He supposed he should be told, that when a Whig Ministry were about to be dismissed from office, and the Tories likely to resume power, when the nobles and bishops of the
 420 421 422 Habeas Corpus d 423 424
 Mr. O'Dwyer  rose to explain. When he spoke of interference with the Church, he meant only with its temporalities.
 Mr. Rotch  regretted that the Irish people had been so much misled on the question of the Repeal of the Union, as they had formerly been on the Catholic question, by being assured that its settlement would extricate them from all their difficulties. The Irish were a grateful people, and he had too much confidence in his Majesty's Ministers not to believe that they would have great cause for gratitude for the measures which would be proposed for their relief. Although the speech of the nobler mover of the Address had caused some degree of irritation to the hon. members for Ireland, he thought they had done little justice to their country by allowing themselves to be led away, by a momentary irritation, so far as to forget that they were statesmen, and that they had other duties to discharge than merely to retaliate upon those whom they conceived to have offered them offence. He confessed he should have expected otherwise from Gentlemen who must have convinced every one who heard them that they were patriots, and had the interest of their country at heart—for he did not listen to the tale which was circulated out of doors, that the Members for Ireland were the mere creatures of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He looked upon them as independent Members, sent by constituencies which were formed by that great measure which had been lately carried. The House was called upon to consider whether the additional powers demanded by his Majesty's Ministers were necessary or not. If not, it rested with the House not to grant them. He was told by an hon. Member, that there were no words in the Address to that effect. Either that hon. Gentleman or he must be in error. On referring to the Address he found this passage: "And we shall be ready to adopt such measures of salutary precaution, and to intrust to his Majesty such additional powers, as may be found necessary." Therefore he conceived that, if the House should not judge those measures necessary when they were proposed,
 411 412
 Mr. Cuthbert Rippon  did not intend to manifest any disrespect to the House by opposing the Motion, but he rose to express a hope that the day was not far distant when any individual returned to that House by upwards of 2,000 electors of this country, would be permitted to enter the Legislative Assembly without such difficulties as in the present instance had arisen. He believed that there were many Gentlemen who considered the oaths to be inefficient and injurious,—inefficient, because the man who would speak falsely would swear falsely; and injurious, because it gave, under the colour of an oath, the semblance of truth to that which was false. He trusted that as little delay as possible would occur before the electors of Durham would be informed that the doors of Parliament were opened to the individual whom they had selected to represent and maintain their interests and their rights.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  could not, representing, as he did, the largest county in Ireland, refrain from offering a few observations on that occasion. The hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin appeared to have the greatest sympathy for the distressed condition of the clergy of Ireland; but he appeared to have so far exhausted his benevolent and humane feelings towards them, that he had none left for the suffering peasantry. They had heard the facts stated by the hon. member for Wexford, in reply to the hon. member for the University; and he would ask them if they could consent to arm the most unpopular Government that had ever existed in Ireland with such powers as appeared to be contemplated? They were told by certain Members that the clergy were under the necessity of selling their carriages and horses, and other luxuries in order to buy food; but those Members never told them of the manner in which the last blanket was stripped from the widow and the orphan. The hon. member for Wexford had been stating circumstances which had taken place prior to the present Ministry taking office: but he could say that he had recently prosecuted a chief constable of police. 'The charge against him was, that he had, without any authority, proceeded to arrest a man. Upon getting to the man's house, he asked for a light, but there was no candle or five, or
 453 454
 Mr. Shaw  said, that it was with the utmost reluctance he took part in that debate. For the three preceding nights he had not attempted nor intended it; and on the night before he had voted
 436 437 438 cheers 439 440 441 hear 442 The Sun The Sun l l l l 443 gravamen 444 445 446 447 448
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the words of the Motion were not sufficiently comprehensive to inclued what was most important—namely, the construction put by courts of law upon the several Acts relating to Quakers, and which were to be found in the Law Reports.
 Mr. Horatio Ross  had served on the Select Committee which had been appointed last year, and he hoped the noble Lord would at least introduce a more cautious Bill than that proposed by Mr. Sadler last Session.
 Mr. Rorke  complained of the inconsistency of the members of his Majesty's Government and their supporters since they had taken their seats on the opposite benches. In England they were Reformers—in Ireland coercionists. During the recent election for the city of Dublin, they supported two Conservatives, while, at the same time, they patronised two reforming candidates for the University; and he rejoiced to say, that in both cases they received their defeat. They adopted an anti-union policy abroad. In Belgium they were anti-unionists, while they were unionists at home. Abroad they were anti-unionists even to the death—they were unionists at home even to the death. When the right hon. Secretary for Ireland pleased again to indulge in the expression of such sentiments as those to which he had given utterance the other night, he ought to reflect that he was a member of a Government which set an example of the doctrine of mediation to the rest of Europe. They were the prime mediators. They set the example of mediation to the other European states, and they knew not how soon their conduct might be followed up by their allies. The question of the Repeal of the Union had been attempted to be brought forward for discussion by the Ministers themselves. They had attempted to drag the hon. and learned member for Dublin into the arena for the discussion of that question. As it appeared to him that
 405 lucus a non lucendo *
 Mr. Briscoe  had determined, on the whole, to support the Address; but in doing so he could not refrain from saying that there were omissions in the Royal Speech, which, however, he trusted would be amply compensated by the labours of his Majesty's Ministers. There was no allusion in the Speech to the great grievance of Colonial Slavery, nor to those measures from which, above all, the people expected relief from their burthens, the measures for ensuring a diminished expenditure. Neither was there in the Speech any expression of sympathy with the distress of the people of this realm, and for those privations which it was the hard lot of the lower classes and of some of the middle classes to endure. He hoped that the promise in the Speech to remove the causes of complaint included the introduction of improvements. He had been assured by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was the intention of the Government to redress the wrongs of Ireland; and were it not for the statement in the Speech, that the Church of Ireland should receive a separate consideration, he could not have supported the Address. If coercion should ultimately be proved to be absolutely necessary, he should reserve to himself the right of judging of the amount of that coercion, of the manner in which it was to be applied, and of the time for which it was to continue; and as he was satisfied on these points he would vote. He considered the suspension of the ordinary administration of justice as one of the greatest political evils, and as one which should not be resorted to but in the extremity of danger, and to stay the dissolution of the frame-work of society. He should give his support to the Address only from the confidence he placed in the
 419
  Mr. John Browne  said, that he had listened with the greatest attention to all that had fallen from the opponents of the Address during the three evenings on which the House had been engaged in the discussion, but that he had heard nothing from them to induce him to give any countenance or support to the Amendment which they proposed. He could not support it, because it appeared to him that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had not laid any ground for it. The hon. and learned Member had enumerated the grievances under which Ireland laboured, but his remedies were quite insufficient. The hon. member for Waterford (Mr. Barron), who, in his excellent speech, had described the heart rending distresses of the Irish people, had also suggested a remedy which was very different from the remedy of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. The learned Gentleman urged Repeal of the Union as the specific for all Irish grievances. But the hon. member for Waterford, with greater reason, contended that the only remedy for the distress of the Irish peasant must come from the first contributions of the Irish landlord to provide for his employment and support—in a word, must come from the establishment of a system of Poor-laws. He, for one, cordially concurred with the hon. member for Waterford, and was ready to apply, as speedily as might be, a system of Poor-laws to Ireland, to which it appeared to him most extraordinary that the hon. and learned member for Dublin was opposed. It would seem, then, that there was some inconsistency among the hon. Gentlemen opposite. They all admitted the evil, but they differed as to the remedy. He certainly did not approve of coercive measures in the abstract, but there might be exceptions to this feeling. When hon. Members talked of suspending the Constitution, the House should see which party it was that had really suspended the Constitution, The people of Ireland had, he lamented to say, already suspended all that was valuable in the Constitution—the Trial by Jury—the protection that law should
 403 404
 Mr. Richards : The House laughed at me, not at the story.
 Mr. Walter  said, that he could not allow himself to give a silent vote, though he should not trespass long on the attention of the House. Not with standing the number of topics contained in his Majesty's Speech, the debate had almost wholly turned upon a single topic—namely, the Union with Ireland, On
 431 432
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He was anxious that the first act of the Reformed Parliament towards Ireland should be of a soothing character. Now, the Address was a denunciation against the whole people of Ireland. Every man who wished to soothe Ireland and prevent the bitter disappointment which must otherwise inevitably ensue, would cordially support this Amendment.
 Mr. Pease : I pray to be allowed to make my solemn affirmation.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  deprecated the extreme severity which the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets had displayed towards the hon. member for Drogheda (Mr. O'Dwyer), who, as a young Member of that House, was entitled to some degree of lenity. When the power of the hon. and learned member for Dublin to agitate was complained of, let it be remembered that he derived that power from an act of the Government, and could be deprived of it only by taking away the causes in which it originated. The accusation which had been brought against the hon. member for Drogheda, with respect to the Oath of Allegiance, was not a new one; the right hon. Secretary for Ireland brought it forward last Session against the hon. member for Tipperary (Mr. Shell) during the debate on the Tithe Bill. For his own part he denied any intention to subvert the Protestant Church of Ireland as by law established, but he claimed, as a legislator from the sister kingdom, the right to interfere, in common with every Protestant Member, in the settlement of the temporalities of the Irish Church, Was
 433 434
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  resumed, by observing that he had often thought that it would be most desirable that, to the usual oaths taken by Members, another should be added, that they would use expressions in the ordinary sense attached by people in general to such expressions. He could not see the propriety of the use of the word extinction in the instance alluded to, if it was to mean that the receipt of the tithe was merely to be shifted from one to another, from a tithe-proctor to a tax-collector. He would, after this specimen of the shifting of words from their obvious meaning, to suit an occasion, and avoid a consequence not foreseen, ask the hon. and learned civilian, member for the Tower Hamlets, what confidence could those, who like him were interested so deeply in the promise of the extinction of tithes, ever repose in that right hon. Gentleman, or the Ministry, of which he formed a part? When it was recollected that the right hon. Gentleman had taken a twelvemonth to think how he should explain away that positive assurance, what confidence could any man place in his words? Since then what had the right hon. Gentleman done in Ireland, as to the extinction of tithes? Why, he had sent the Attorney General on an ambulatory circuit, to enforce the tithes of 1831, and in ten cases at Clonnel,
 * 435 d Tipperary Free Press
 Dr. Lushington  resumed. The explanation of the hon. Member was not more satisfactory than his original declaration. However anxious hon. Members might be to correct irregularities, and purify the Church—and no Member was more anxious than he (Dr. Lushington) to effect those objects—yet he had thought that every Member in that House was bound by a solemn obligation to uphold the Established Church. He had hoped that the Oath taken by the Catholic Members on entering that House made a deep impression on their minds. With the leave of the House he should read the Oath taken by Catholics. It was as follows: "I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure, any intention of subverting the present Church Establishment, as settled by law." He would read the conclusion of the Oath, which was, "and I do solemnly, and in the presence of God, declare, that I make this declaration in the plain and ordinary sense of the words, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." [ Loud cries of O'Connell. 427 428 429 430
 Dr. Lushington  and several other Members rose together. Having caught the Speaker's eye, the learned Gentleman proceeded
 426
 Dr. Lushington  said, that he had understood the hon. member for South Durham to object to taking any oath; and he (Dr. Lushington) could state as a fact, if it were necessary, that the hon. Member's objection was not to any part of the contents of the oath, but to swearing in any form.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  said: Much as I feel it my duty to my constituents not to give a silent vote on the present occasion, I should not, perhaps, at this advanced state of the debate, trespass on the time of the House, were it not for the observations which fell from the noble Lord, the member for Devonshire, last night when he fairly enough called on the Irish Members to state, in an explicit manner, what they considered the grievances of that country, and the remedies for them. I shall endeavour to do this in as concise a manner as I can; but I must first observe, that I was in hopes that the notoriety of these grievances was such that his Majesty's Ministers would have stated their determination to remove them before they called for extraordinary powers to put down the discontent and disorder naturally arising from the very existence of such grievances. If they had done so they should have had ray support, and they would have insured, I dare say, the unanimous feeling of this House, in the Address now before us. I consider, Sir, the great grievances of Ireland are to be found in the payment of the tithes, in the want of employment, and destitute state of the poor, in the mal-administration of justice in many cases, and in absenteeism. From the great bulk of the people differing in religious tenets from those of the Irish Church, the payment of tithes is generally resisted, and is looked upon as a tax so unjust in its principle, so unnatural in its operation, and so vexatious in its details, that no man who wished the contentment of a people, but would desire its extinction. But let it not be supposed I would wish it to be transferred from the parsons to the pocket of the landlord. No such thing; I would have a certain fixed rate substituted on the land, to be applied as a provision for the infirm and destitute poor, as may be arranged hereafter. As to the administration of justice I would say, that giving us the certain method of having impartial and unprejudiced Juries is the grand point, as minor details would soon follow. These, in my mind, would be the grand panacea for the great evils of Ireland, and would soon restore tranquillity to that distracted country. The noble
 400 Habeas Corpus * * Habeas Corpus anent Wrongous Imprisonment" Habeas Corpus 401 402
 Mr. Peter  meant to vote for the Address, which he most certainly would not do, were he not convinced that measures for the redress of the grievances of Ireland
 * 406 407 408 per se. 409 ——"Ne tanta animis assuescite bella; Neu patriæ validas in viscera vertite vires. Túque prior, tu parce." 410 ne quid detrimenii respublica caperet.
 The Speaker  said, he was sure that the
 388
 The Speaker  rose, and said, that he had to acquaint the House, that he had been informed by the Clerk that an hon. Member at the Table had objected to take the oaths.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the House would be put in possession of every point bearing upon the subject in the form the Committee had been moved for. There had been two decisions referring to the subject—one pronounced by Lord Chief Justice Holt, and another by Lord Mansfield, which would be brought before the Committee.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that since the year 1825, he had repeatedly brought forward the subject, in fact, no less than three times. He rejoiced that the subject had again been taken up, and particularly as regarded the number of hours of infant employment. He hoped that the House was in possession of full information, and would not go prejudiced in any way to the consideration of the question. After reading the evidence already before the House, two opinions could not be entertained, but he trusted that, after all due attention, the question would be once for all set at rest in a manner that neither masters nor servants could complain of.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the House had just been made aware that an hon. Member had declined to take the oaths prescribed by law, claiming the privilege, under certain Acts of Parliament relating to the people called Quakers, of making a solemn affirmation instead of taking the oaths; he therefore felt it necessary immediately to call the attention of the House to the circumstance. It appeared to him, that the best mode by which the subject could be settled would be by the appointment of a Committee; not to give an opinion (for on a question of such importance an opinion could only be given by the House itself), but to report what were the precedents upon the journals, and what the state of the law, as it referred to Quakers, in respect to their privilege of making an affirmation instead of taking an oath. The precedents were easy of reference, and the Acts of Parliament on the subject might possibly be cognizant to the House; but he thought it was desirable that they should be brought together, and a decision upon them given. It was not to be expected that every hon. Gentleman should be acquainted with them, and, therefore, full information should be laid before the House, in order to enable it to come to a proper determination. For himself, he could say that he had looked into the precedents and statutes bearing upon the subject, and he had found laws relating to the people called Quakers, provided in an Act relating to tolls for the navigation of the river Thames, and also in an Act for the prevention of infectious disorders amongst horned cattle. It was not
 389
 Lord Althorp  said, there was one very material objection which he had to the Amendment, that by the Address, as originally proposed, the House declared its opinion on the question of Repealing the Legislative Union, where as the Amendment left it altogether open. He could not agree with the hon. member for Middlesex, that those who did not vote for the Amendment would be wanting in sympathy towards Ireland. He thought the House might, at least, put confidence in the Ministers till they heard what were their plans of relief for that country, and then if Members did not think those plans sufficient, it would be quite time enough for them to come forward and propose such
 458
 Lord Morpeth,  after presenting a Petition from Den-by, in Yorkshire, against Negro Slavery, stated, he wished to take the first opportunity of offering an explanation of two Notices which appeared upon the Order Book. He admitted that, after the noble Lord, the member for Dorsetshire, had given notice that he should revive Mr. Sadler's Bill, he (Lord Morpeth) had given notice, for a previous day, of a different measure it was true, although upon the same subject-matter. He believed there was nothing in this contrary to strict parliamentary usage, but he should be very sorry to fail in parliamentary courtesy to any Member of the House. He wished the House, however, to be made quite aware of the circumstances of the case. He had stated publicly and repeatedly to a constituency, among all classes of which this question was one of vital interest, and he had announced the same intention to several other gentlemen in districts similarly interested, that if Mr. Sadler, in whose hands the subject was unquestionably placed, should not have a seat in this Parliament, he would charge himself with the responsibility of bringing it forward. He had been in his place with the view of giving the requisite notice at the earliest moment at which he had ever known notices given—four o'clock, on the day of the King's Speech; but owing to the unprecedented
 391
 Lord Morpeth  claimed to say this for himself, that his connexion with the manufacturing districts had neither warped his mind nor deadened his feelings with reference to this subject. He would give the best possible assistance to ameliorate the situation of the children, and, at the same time, to secure every protection for trade.
 An Hon. Member  said, that as long as the oath was taken, he certainly did consider the Catholic Members of the House differently situated from other Members,  quoad
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would not allow any man to dictate to him what his belief was to be. If he had taken the oath in a sense in which the House did not understand it, he ought not to be one of its Members; for if he considered the oath to be different to the construction which he put upon it, he would not have taken it at all. He was aware that an oath ought to be taken in the sense of the person administering it, if the words would at all bear out that sense. When, therefore, he had, as a Catholic, suffered twenty years in consequence of his respect for an oath, he could not bear to hear it said, that he had taken an oath equivocally, much less that he was one of those who held an oath lightly; and he thought, that if he had been guilty of any unpleasantness the other evening, when an insinuation was thrown out that any Catholic Member voting for any alteration in the Church Establishment was doing so in violation of the oath he had taken, such unpleasantness was not altogether inexcusable. The interpretation which he put upon the language of the oath was this—that the Roman Catholics were bound, as were the Protestants also, to support the Church Establishment so long as it continued to be the law. But, as a legislator, he considered it perfectly competent in him to make any proposition for, or to be any party in, altering these laws. That was his understanding of the construction of the oath; and if it was not that of those who administered it, he would not stay there to be taunted as one who would lightly profess the name of God, believing, as he did, that he must answer for his conduct in eternity. He meant to oppose the bringing up of the Report. It was painful to him to de-lain the House upon this subject, which had for such a length of time occupied their attention. But it was his duty—a duty which he performed most reluctantly. He believed that none of his hon. friends from Ireland, who had already taken part in the debate, intended now to Address the House upon this subject unless personally attacked. He was contending for constitutional freedom, and he felt that the acts contemplated by Government were so opposed to that freedom, that if he could only delay them for a single day, he was doing that for his country of which he was most proud—it was an act for which he would lay down his life if necessary. Considering, indeed, the present
 482 483 484 485 s s 486 487 488 l 489 Habeas Corpus 490 491 bonhomie 492 493 494 495 de facto 496 l l l l l l l parceque les plus forts, ont toujours raison 497 498 Waterford Chronicle 499 laughter
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that all he had stated was, that lives had been lost.
 An Hon. Member  recommended an honest but energetic administration of the law in Ireland. That part of the empire was in danger arising from agitation—and he, therefore, would support Ministers in their efforts to obtain extraordinary powers for the coercion of Ireland.
 Colonel Davies  hoped, that the hon. member for Middlesex did not mean to give such an immense power to the law officers of the Crown. The only constitutional way was to take the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. Langdale  observed, that though he might be considered irregular in the observations which he was about to make, in commenting upon observations which had been made in a former debate, he could not, in justice to himself, and in justice to his constituents, avoid entering his protest against the interpretation which the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) had put upon the oath which was taken by the Roman Catholic Members. As he was himself of that profession, he felt, that it was of the utmost importance that the meaning of that oath should be perfectly understood and that it should be known, what it did not mean. There could be no question of more urgency to Members who were situated as he was. It was a question which had already arisen more than once. It must be very disagreeable to any Roman Catholic Member if he could be told, before giving his vote on a subject, that he had taken an oath which prevented him from voting in a particular way. On any other occasion he might have been willing to defer the consideration of the subject, but he was decidedly of opinion that an immediate understanding ought to be come to. It was hard that Catholic Members should be told that they could not enter into any discussion respecting the temporalities of the Irish Church without violating the oath which they had taken on entering Parliament. He
 478 479
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  presented the Report of the Committee appointed to examine into the cases respecting the taking of the affirmation by Quakers instead of oaths. In presenting the Report he must state, that the Committee had met with a single case of a scruple to take an oath in the House of
 477
 Mr. David Roche  said, that the Irish people were as peaceable as any other portion of his Majesty's subjects. For the last twenty years he had lived in the heart of the county of Limerick, and never knew that county more tranquil than at the present time. The existing laws were sufficient to repress all disturbances in Ireland, as was proved by the late application of them to the counties of Mayo and Clare. But, said the right hon. Secretary opposite, crime has increased within the last six months. Let him prove it, and make out his case. The right hon. Secretary mentioned the occurrence of 400 or 500 atrocities, but he did not say whether the majority of them were perpetrated during the first or second of the last two years. He did not show the increase of crime within the last six months over the first six months of the second last year. Until he did, he could make out no case as to an increase of crime.
 Mr. Kinloch  said, that he must signify his determination to adjourn the House, if quiet and good order were not restored.
 Mr. Robinson  remarked, that the head and front of the offending of Ministers against the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) was, that they had inserted a paragraph in the King's Speech declaring a determination to support the Union; and no attempt to conciliate him would have the slightest effect as long as they stood in the way of his favourite project. He strongly objected to the line of conduct pursued by a certain portion of the House during the last week; it was calculated to impede public business, to sow distrust, and to lead the Irish to believe that there was a want of sympathy for their sufferings among the English Representatives. Why, in the face of the majority against him, did the learned Gentleman persevere in scattering the seeds of national discord among a generous but too confident people. No doubt the hon. member for Dublin had been bitterly disappointed by the result of the division the other night; his forty votes had caused him no little vexation, and the renewal to-night of the course pursued last week made it almost seem as if the object of the Irish Members was to disgust the English Members, and to drive them to a dissolution of the Union, in order to avoid the infliction of Hibernian oratory. Was it not monstrous for him to tell his countrymen, that it was in vain for them to seek for justice at the hands of Englishmen, and that the only remedy was a Repeal of the Union? Why so obstinately persevere in threatening every measure of relief not emanating from himself? Why, on no occasion, co-operate with Ministers in promoting the tranquillity, and thence the prosperity, of his native country? He was no partisan of the Ministers; but he could not shut his eyes to the fact, that they at least meant to do well for Ireland. Surely with such Ministers, and, still more, with a Parliament the complete representative of the public mind of England, it was not too much to wait till they had heard what their measures of relief were. Should those measures not prove as remedial as it was fair to expect they would be, then let the
 519
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that he had an Amendment to move, which he should have done in the early part of the evening had he not forgotten it. He wished now to be allowed to read it.
 Mr. John Browne  said, that as he and
 521 522
 Mr. John Browne  proceeded. The verdict on the coroner's inquest was, "That the deceased, John M'Grath, had come to his death by a gun-shot wound, inflicted by Constable Webb, in defence of the lives of himself and his party." That was the verdict of the Coroner's Jury; but if it had been otherwise, it would not have been decisive of the merits of the case. Under certain circumstances Trial by Jury was a mockery. Jurors were told that if they gave any verdict but one, their lives would be endangered. Some extraordinary measures were necessary, therefore, to meet the exigencies of the case. In introducing such measures the Government should have his support; and he wished distinctly to declare that, in his opinion, no measure more fatal and more wanton could be agitated than the question of the Repeal of the Union.
 Mr. John Fielden  seconded the Amendment. A great deal had been said, he observed, on the subject of increasing production and increasing consumption in the country; and, however anomalous it might appear, or, however strange, it was not more strange than true, that the distress among the labouring part of the community had gone on increasing with the increase of production and consumption. Since he had been elected in January last, as the Representative of the borough of Oldham, he had taken great pains to inform himself on the subject of the distresses of the people. He had caused a survey and examination to be made by respectable persons, who had personally visited the cottages of the poor, for the purpose of ascertaining their real condition. In the borough of Oldham, which he had the honour to represent, and where he did not expect to find so much distress, out of a population of 50,000, which the borough contained, there were upwards of 8,000, whose average income per head, for food and clothing, did not amount to 2½ d d 541 d 542
 Mr. John O'Connell  protested, in the name of his constituency, against the attempt which Government was making to trample upon the rights and liberties of the people of Ireland. He protested, in the most solemn manner, against such an attempt, and he called upon the Representatives of the English people not to sanction it by their votes.
 Mr. Richards  said, that he had heard so many references made, in the course of the debate, to what had fallen from him on the first night's discussion on the Address, that he hoped he might be permitted to make a few observations in explanation. He could assure those Irish Members who had found fault with what fell from him, that his observations on Ireland were dictated by the utmost sincerity. He was anxious to support the Government in any measures which he should think calculated to prevent that fatal measure—the dissolution of the Legislative Union; but he did not think himself pledged, by his vote on the Address, to support any coercive measures which Ministers might think it their duty to propose. Before he voted for such measures he should certainly give them a full and impartial consideration. Notwithstanding all that was said of the misgovernment of Ireland, he was convinced that the country was improving; and if the system of agitation which prevailed was put an end to it would improve much more. The hon. member for Oldham had thought proper to find fault with some of his observations. He said, they were; now too old to talk, as if they had no light from experience. He hoped he
 520 Political Register
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not ask, that the noble Lord should give his opinion, but he asked for that of the law officers of the Crown. For himself, he was perfectly indifferent, as he had quite made up his mind upon the question. Still, as a doubt existed in the minds of some hon. Members, the opinions of the law officers of the Crown should be given.
 Mr. Hume  thought, it would be more
 480
 Mr. Hume , amidst loud cries of "question! question!" divide! divide!" was understood to say, that however much he might regret and feel himself bound to oppose the system of coercion which his Majesty's Ministers seemed determined to pursue towards Ireland, yet that the House had already once divided on that question, and the Amendment before them was substantially the same. He hoped the present Amendment would not be pressed to a division, having already divided with his hon. friend the member for Lambeth, and he thought himself not called upon to support this Amendment as nothing had occurred in the course of the debate which in the slightest degree altered his opinion.
 Mr. Morgan O'Connell  did not mean to add any tiling to the general arguments used by other hon. members for Ireland, on the subject of the Address; he could not agree with those, however, who assumed that Ministers did not intend to resort to coercive and sanguinary measures. So long as Ministers refused to explain their intentions, he should take it for granted that they meant to introduce violent coercive measures. Much was said of the disturbed state of the country; he begged, however, to remind the House that Ireland was in a much more disturbed state a year and a half ago, than it was at present, and that the disturbances at that period had been suppressed by the regular course of law, without resorting to extraordinary measures. Nothing was now complained of but nocturnal outrages, whilst it was notorious that, at the period he alluded to, outrages were committed in the open day. The fact and the truth was, that the coercive measures proposed were not intended to be directed so much against the outrages and disturbances of the country as against the agitation of a Repeal of the Union. Much had been said of the heat displayed by the Irish Members, but those who charged them with warmth sometimes fell into the same fault themselves, and, amongst those, he might reckon the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets, who had made
 523
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  proposed an Amendment—namely, in the last paragraph but three, to leave out from the words, by all practicable means," to the end of the paragraph, and to insert the words, "such improvements in the condition of the agricultural and manufacturing classes of the community as alone can permanently support the habits of industry and good order prevailing among them."
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  then proposed, another Amendment, as follows:—That, in the third line of the last paragraph, after the word disappointed,' and before the words, and we shall be ready to adopt such measures of salutary precaution,' the following words be inserted: As soon as we shall have adopted the necessary measures for redressing the wrongs and relieving the distress of the Irish people, if such measures should prove ineffectual in putting down the disturbances in Ireland, and in giving peace and contentment to that unhappy country.'"
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  spoke to the following effect: No man can be more grateful than I am for the benefits which we have derived from the present Administration; but the events which took place before we carried the great objects for which we had long contended, ought to prove a warning never again to lead the people into similar circumstances. In my conscience, I believe that we are now proceeding in a course of error. We are met here as a Reformed Parliament for the first time in our history. Why did we reform the Parliament? For two reasons—first, to relieve the people from the insupportable distress under which they labour; secondly, to restore and confirm the liberties of the people. What then must have been my surprise on hearing the Speech from the Throne, that the first measure recommended to this House by his Majesty's Ministers, is a measure to restrain the liberty of the subject, and perhaps, establish arbitrary power in Ireland. I do not know what the words mean unless they mean a suspension of the Constitution. I believe that the honourable men who conduct the Government of the country, would be merciful, lenient and mild in the administration of tyrannic power; but I will never consent that my constituents, and, constitutionally speaking, I consider the Irish as my constituents, or at least that I am bound to legislate for them as such. I will never consent that any portion of the inhabitants of the British empire shall be delivered over to the despotic power of any set of men, however pure, benevolent, wise, or upright. Nothing but the very last necessity shall ever induce me to give my consent to such a measure. Another object of the Reform of the Parliament has
 544 suaviter in modo, et fortiter in re s s 545 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 546 547 548 timeo Dawaos 549
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that in rising to answer the hon. and learned Gentleman, he acknowledged he felt himself in a difficult situation. He felt so, because he knew he was not able to meet the eloquence and power of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but this he would say of himself that he did not yield to any one whatever in the respect and attachment he felt to his country. He should not attempt to go into the question of personal attacks, but he should follow step by step the hon. and learned Gentleman in the statements which he had made upon the question of the Union itself. He thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman for those statements—he thanked him for thus at last coming-
 500 "Hanc veniam petimusque damusque vicissim." 501 502 from Mr. O'Connell from Mr. O'Connell 503 * * †Ibid, xii. p.848. 504 * * 505
 Mr. Cobbett : Having been in some measure called upon by the hon. Member who has just sat down, I shall trouble the House with a few observations, and
 516 517 l l 518
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to move an Amendment.
 Mr. Cobbett : Other hon. Members may intercept the reading of the Report where they please, and move that such or such parts be omitted; for my own part, I object to every tittle of the Report after the words "Most Gracious Majesty." The noble Lord opposite (Lord Althorp) complains that much time has been lost
 525 526 d d 527 Laughter Great confusion 528 529 530 Calls of Question and Order coughing
 Mr. Cobbett  resumed. I have a very sacred duty to perform, and if the House be determined not to hear me to-night, I will certainly bring it forward to-morrow; and if the House will not hear me to-morrow, I will then bring it forward the day after. The statement I have to make, I am determined to make, and that without any considerable interruption. I was proceeding to show, that when two factions joined, it is always in order to oppress the people. I can remember the coalition between Pitt and three or four of the principal leaders of the Whigs—the faithful Whigs. I can remember four of these scandalous reconciliations: the first was, when a detachment of the Whigs joined the heaven-born Pitt, in 1793: that produced the war against the republicans of France, and has finally added 600,000,000 l 532 d 533 The frame work-knitters' Committee have selected the following cases of distress, in Leicester, out of a vast number of others of a similar description,' that the public may at once perceive the indispensable necessity of coming forward to assist in raising the wretched frame work-knitters from their degradation and misery. They invite the wealthy classes to visit their miserable habitations, to inquire into the truth of this statement; and they indulge the hope that nothing further will be wanted to induce their kind sympathy and support. The Committee are anxious not to have auy control over the funds, but to place them in the hands of gentlemen, who will see that they are properly appropriated to the object for which they are solicited. A meeting of subscribers will be called, to take under their charge the kind contributions of the public. Signed, on behalf of the Committee, THOMAS WRIGHT, Chairman. Leicester, January 17th Case 1st.—William Carter, journeyman framework-knitter, lives in Lewitt's-yard, Oxford-street; his average hours of labour are seventeen hours a-day, and his earnings are 9 s s d d d d d d d s d Case 2nd.—Thomas Phillips, Lewitt's-yard, master framework-knitter, earns 6 s d s d d d d d s d s s d Case 3rd.—John Hastings, Lewitt's-yard, earns 8 s s d s d Case 4th.—Thomas Hastings, Lewitt's-yard, earns 6 s s Case 5th.—Joseph Greenwood, Causeway-lane, earns 7 s 534 s l 535 536 537
 The Speaker  rose, and said, that he would exert all the authority in his power to keep order. If the hon. Members had been longer Members of that House, they would not have been so sensible to any occasional interruptions with which they might meet in the course of the Debate. He could say, that he had never, in the whole course
 531
 The Speaker : Perhaps the hon. Member will state what part of the Report he means to move should be omitted.
 The Speaker : The time is not yet arrived. If you were formerly too late, you are now too soon. It will be necessary for you to wait until you come to some words of the Report you object to. Then will be the time for your Amendment.
 The Speaker : The Question now is, that the Report be brought up and read.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he would not have uttered a word upon this occasion had not the hon. member for Oldham said, that he would divide the House, if it were only to show the people of England who were their friends and who were their enemies. Now, he should vote against the Amendment; and yet he fancied himself to be quite as true a friend to the people of England as the hon. Member himself. It was not by vague declamations, that the sufferings of the people of England were to be relieved; it was not by the desultory efforts of individuals that their distresses were to be alleviated; but it was by combining the efforts of individuals, and by intrusting the direction of them all to an Administration entitled to confidence, that any beneficial result was to be attained. He was not acquainted with any member of the Administration; but if he were asked why he thought the Administration entitled to confidence, he would reply: "Because they have accomplished for us the work of Reform." He could not forget, though many Gentlemen seemed to have forgotten, that the Reform which they granted to us went far beyond the expectations of the country; and he was not prepared on that, the fifth day of the Session, to declare that the hopes of the people of England were defeated, in consequence of the machinery of the Reform Bill being found incompetent to direct the machinery of Government. He should vote for the Original Address; but he must avow a determination to support any measure which was likely to relieve the sufferings of the people of Ireland. He thought that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had entirely mistaken the sentiments of that House; he believed that whenever that hon. and learned Member brought forward any measure, applying a remedy to any specific grievance in Ireland, the British Parliament would gladly support him in carrying it into effect. But from the moment that hon. Gentlemen saw agitation systematically carried on—from the moment that they saw grounds for suspecting that
 543
 Mr. Ward  declared, that if he thought he, as a Catholic Member, was differently situated to any others in the House, he would resign his seat at once. He considered himself quite as competent to enter upon the discussion of the affairs of the Church as any Member in the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded to had no more right to state the opinion he had given, except as his own opinion, than the hon. Gentleman had to state what was the opinion of that House. Ministers had no business to give any interpretation of the oath, nor ought they to be called upon for their opinion. It was of course open to any member of the Government, or of the House, to state his opinion on the point in the course of the debate, and to argue the question if it occurred to him. He thought the hon. member for Middlesex was not justified in asking such a question.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the original words did not imply any tendency towards disorder or idleness in the labouring classes, not even though legislative remedies should prove ineffectual to remove their distress. He would, therefore, support them, as in reality less liable to be construed in an offensive sense to the people
 550
 Mr. O Connell  entirely concurred in the object of the petition, and hoped that the day would speedily arrive, when all things tending to restrict the progress of opinion would be removed.
 Mr. Oswald  presented a Petition from New Milns, against the Business of the House being carried on at night, and to such late hours.
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred in the prayer of the petition. He would not, however, take part in any vexatious proceeding, but submit the question to the good sense of the House. Something had been said respecting the inconvenience to Ministers if the House met in the day time. He did not exactly see that such great inconvenience would arise, but at all events, the Ministers should rather be considered as the servants of the House than its masters.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was not his intention to detain the House for any great length of time; but he could not refrain from expressing the great satisfaction and delight which he felt on the introduction of such a measure as that which the noble Lord had described. Although he sometimes spoke strongly and warmly with reference to measures which he thought injurious to his country, still he could assure the House that he was as ready as any man to give his honest and conscientious support to every proposition which appeared to him to be calculated for the benefit of that country, let it come from what quarter it might. He thought that the measure now proposed, with respect to the Established Church of Ireland, was a wise one; it contained within itself the seeds of future amelioration. It had been insinuated formerly that there was a class in Ireland who wished for the establishment there of a different Church. Let the noble Lord, however, throw such an idea out of his contemplation; there was no wish in Ireland to forward or support any such plan. If such a plan were formed, if any such claim were asserted—there was no Member in that House who would more decidedly oppose it than he would. At the same time he was, and ever had been, of opinion, that the passport to office in Ireland should be merit alone, and not religion. He meant not now to go into any discussion of the revenues of the Irish Church, because there would be an ample opportunity for entering on that subject hereafter. The land revenue of the Church in Ireland was amply sufficient for the support of that Establishment. If the Church lands were properly attended to, that revenue would be more than sufficient for every necessary purpose; but the fact was, that at present the Church lands were at once known in Ireland by the wretched manner in which they were cultivated. The miserable state of the peasantry, and the badness of the cultivation, immediately struck every person who approached Church lands in Ireland. He greatly approved of this Bill, because it was clear that it recognized a principle which would be applicable to all property of the same description. He thought it his duty to express these sentiments, and he thanked
 578
 Mr. Ruthven  apprehended that the measure of the noble Lord, would not, by any means have the effect anticipated on the other side of the House. As to the number of Bishops, he was of opinion that four would be adequate to the discharge of the whole duty to devolve upon the twelve, and the people of Ireland would certainly be much better satisfied with the four than with the twelve. The best part of the intended Bill was unquestionably the abolition of Church-rates, and for this he gave the noble Lord and his colleagues
 595
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the almost unanimous concurrence of the House in the principles of the Bill proposed by his noble friend, might have rendered it unnecessary for him to trespass on the attention of the House, had it not been for one or two observations which fell from the right hon. Baronet. He also thought, that the House would feel that, on this particular question, he individually stood in a peculiar situation, which gave him a claim for a few moments to the indulgence of the House. If it had been possible, that he could have felt any regret whatever, that, having so often had the painful duty imposed on him of being the organ of Government, in bringing before the House measures affecting Ireland, not his measures alone, but of the Cabinet with which he had the honour of acting; if he could have regretted, he repeated, that having had that painful duty frequently imposed on him, it had fallen to other hands than his to have proposed a measure to the House, which had been so cordially received, as a messenger of peace and goodwill, if he could have had any personal feelings on the subject, those feelings would have been removed—exist they did not—by the manner in which his noble friend had introduced that measure, and by the gratifying reception which it had received. He hailed that reception as an omen of the happiest nature—as an omen, not only of the good wishes and kind benevolence which were manifested towards Ireland on all hands, but he hailed it also as a proof of the sound sense and calm discretion, which, he trusted, they might anticipate from this Reformed House of Commons in the discussion of great and important questions. When he saw the present liberal measure, founded on principles, to every one of which he gave his cordial, and entire, and unhesitating assent—when he saw this plan brought forward by his noble friend, and stated, at the same time, in terms of such moderation, to be fraught with such benefits, that while it delighted the advocates
 608 609 No, no 610 611 l 612 613 614
 Mr. Ruthven  then said, that he did not mean to trouble the House by pressing his Amendment to a division. He would not
 616
 Mr. Shaw  said, he was persuaded that he should best consult the feelings of the House at that hour and the then stage of the proceedings, by not entering into the various objections which occurred to his mind to the measure proposed by the noble Lord. He wished, however, to guard himself from any supposed acquiescence in it, and to reserve to himself the right, at a more fitting opportunity, of opposing the principle as well as the details of the measure. He feared the noble Lord had introduced a principle of innovation, which he would find it difficult to restrain, and he protested against the doctrine of the noble Lord and the right hon. Secretary—that when the Legislature, by a measure of improvement, added new value to property, the fruits of that improvement were not to be enjoyed by the proprietor; that would, in fact, be to improve with one hand, and confiscate with the other. He lamented that the noble Lord, the member for Devonshire (Lord Ebrington), who usually supported his Majesty's Ministers, should, at the very moment that his Majesty thought it necessary to ask for additional powers to maintain the
 615 from Mr. O'Connell
 Mr. Barron , as a Catholic Member, begged leave once for all, to enter his emphatic protest against the taunts thrown out by the learned member for the Tower Hamlets, and other hon. Members, against the Catholic Members, as violating their oaths when attempting to reduce or interfere with the temporalities of the Protestant Church. He thought that the Catholic Members had better be excluded altogether from the House, than be insulted as they had been. Such observations were most useless, to say the least of them, and he thought that they should not have been made, as they had been, by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced such remarks into the discussions of the House, and that they were most indelicate when uttered by others. He begged to tell those Gentlemen, that he and those who thought with him were incapable of a breach of their oath, and he hoped there would be no repetition of imputations of that kind. He thought he had as good a right as any other man to legislate upon Church property. As an Irishman, not as a sectarian, he said, that he considered the Church as one of the greatest grievances of Ireland. He never should think of meddling with matters of doctrine in the Church of England, and if such subjects came into discussion he might think himself called upon to withdraw, but the property of the Church was, in his opinion, that of the State, and the State had a right to make what arrangements it pleased with respect to that property. The State had taken the property of the Church from the Roman Catholics, and had given it to the Protestant Establishment. The property was given by the State to the dominant religion of the State, and the State had both the right and the power thus to dispose of it. It was thus disposed of by the King, Lords, and Commons, who did what they did in a legal and constitutional manner. In his
 592
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he felt under considerable embarrassment in rising to make a few observations on the outlines of the plan just presented to the House, because he was not prepared to go into the details of such a measure on the spur of the moment. He rejoiced however, that the debates on such an important subject were to be conducted in a spirit of conciliation; but the hon. Baronet could not expect that he and other Members could give up principles that were as dear to them as their lives. He had come to the House that evening prepared to expect a considerable alteration, but he imagined that this alteration would be effected in the spirit of the Report of the Tithe Committee last Session. He had been a Member of that Committee on the subject of tithes—the Report on which, and the course the examination had taken, had prefigured to him the views of the Government with regard to the Church of Ireland. On that occasion be had made his sentiments known; but, making allowance for circumstances, he had not made any objections to the Report, though on a subsequent occasion he had expressed his sentiments on the matter. To those sentiments he now adhered. He did not object to that distribution which would insure an equal remuneration to the resident clergymen—he did not object to the more general diffusion of the revenues of the Church, nor to the more general provision for Protestant Ministers throughout the country. Having concurred with some part of the Report, and on the grounds he had stated, he was much disappointed by the Motion that had now been made. If he felt it to be his duty in the different stages of the measure to canvass its necessity, or to scrutinize its details in a certain spirit of hostility, he should have no other motive but a desire for the welfare of the country. Of this he was convinced, that the Church must ultimately be one of the best means of the salvation
 589 590 l l 591
 Mr. Warre  did not rise to enter into the merits of the extraordinary Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Dublin, and which seemed calculated to accomplish no other purpose than to thwart the first great salutary measure of Reform and improvement in Ireland. He was prepared to see his hon. friend, the member for the University of Oxford (Sir Robert Inglis), rise as the antagonist Of this proposition, but he would say, he
 596 veto 597 598
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  remarked, that it was not a little singular that those very persons who were so particularly anxious respecting the time which the House devoted to business, were the first to waste that time by long and protracted debates.
 Dr. Lushington  supported the prayer of the petition presented by his hon. colleague. He trusted that the noble Lord would take the matter into his serious consideration.
 Dr. Lushington  rose to present a Petition signed by upwards of 1,000 individuals of the Jewish persuasion, setting forth that the petitioners had been for a long series of years subject to certain disabilities and grievances; that they had from time to time applied to the House to have them removed; but that, in consequence of the attention devoted to the measure of Reform, they had not yet obtained the interference of the House; that their brethren of the same persuasion in Denmark, Belgium, and other parts of Europe, and in the United States of America and the colonies, had been relieved from similar disabilities and grievances, and had been restored to equal rights with their fellow-men; and praying, therefore, for the interference of the House to procure for the petitioners a like removal and relief. The hon. and learned Member said, that the petition should have been presented by the hon. member for Finsbury (Mr. R. Grant); and he (Dr. Lushington) was informed that it was the intention of that hon. Member to apply for leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of carrying into effect the prayer of the petitioners.
 Mr. Cobbett  supported the last petition. The public was entitled to the best hours of the House. All night-work should, if possible, be avoided. Birds of ill-omen—bats—toads—and all noxious things, did their work at night. The Lord Chief Justice came into Court at ten o'clock in the morning. Why, then, could not they,
 560
 Mr. Cobbett  begged to inform the noble Lord opposite (Lord Althorp), that, before the House resolved itself into a Committee of Supply, he should take the opportunity of laying before the House a statement of the grievances of the people, in relation to taxation; and calling its attention to certain resolutions on that subject; more particularly with regard to the unequal pressure. He would then show, that the poor man paid forty per cent more than the rich man, in direct taxation; and that, upon the average of the whole taxation, the poor man paid ten per cent more than the rich man. He trusted that the Members of the Reformed House of Commons would not be guilty of such treachery towards their constituency as to go into a Committee of Supply, without some pledge that these grievances would be redressed.
 Mr. O'Reilly , as a Catholic Representative of Ireland, also expressed his satisfaction at the measures proposed by Government. He could not sit quiet and hear an Amendment proposed to what he was sure would be hailed with such pleasure by those for whose benefit it was intended. He was anxious that it should be received there in the same conciliatory spirit that he knew it would be at the ether side of the water, and, therefore, he begged that the hon. member for Dublin (Mr. Ruthven) would withdraw his Amendment.
 Sir Francis Burdett  differed  toto cœlo 586 587 588
 Sir Richard Keane  begged to express to his Majesty's Ministers his unmixed delight and unfeigned gratitude for the measure which they had that night proposed for the consideration of Parliament—a measure of a healing and wholesome nature, which would secure the confidence and gratitude of the Irish people, and serve as the keystone of peace and good order throughout Ireland. In this age of transition in which we lived, was it right, or just, that England, ascending to the summit of prosperity with happy and moral Scotland in her train, should leave Ireland to grovel at the bottom. He hailed with satisfaction the salutary interposition of the Government. A perseverance in a similar policy would convert Ireland into a tower of strength. Such just and generous policy was worthy of his Majesty's Councils, and becoming this great country, renowned in arts and arms, and, he might be allowed to add, grown  Grey
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that there was no subject, whether of an ecclesiastical or a civil nature, connected with the country, in which he should be willing to follow the example of the hon. and learned Member. Differing as he had done from the hon. Member, both before and since he had come into that House, it would be sufficient for him that a measure connected with his (Sir Robert Inglis's) Church should meet with the hon. and learned Member's unqualified approbation for it to call forth his censure and resistance. It was not
 579 580 581 582 Hear, hear No, no 583 584 585
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he wished, in the first place, to make an observation on a point of form rather than of substance. He had considerable doubts whether it would not have been more in conformity with the practice of the House to have brought forward a proposition like this, relating to matters of religion, in a Committee of the whole House. There was a Standing Order to that effect, and, of course, the next question would be, whether the present proposition was or was not a question relating to religion. He apprehended, if, in proposing the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts for the purpose of admitting Dissenters to civil privileges, a noble Lord thought it a subject so intimately connected with religion that he made that proposal in Committee, the same course ought to have been pursued with the present question. He, himself, in bringing forward the Repeal of the Catholic disabilities, proposed the measure in a Committee of the whole House. Considering, then, what had been the practice of the House, he thought a proposition a part of which was the extinction often out of twenty-two of the Protestant bishoprics in Ireland, should have been so far considered a matter of religion as to be made in Committee. If it was intended to abolish the former practice of the House altogether, that might be an answer for the future; but the order stood the same as in the last Session, and therefore the question was, whether they should adhere to the established custom of the
 599
 Sir Robert Peel  admitted, that it was hardly fair to ask the noble Lord to enter upon any detailed explanation of his measure at the present moment; and, in asking the question he had just put to the noble Lord, his object was rather to suggest to the House the propriety of suspending their judgment upon a measure which was imperfectly explained and little understood, than to give it at once their entire and unqualified approval. He understood the noble Lord to propose that the whole amount of revenue belonging to the United Church of England and Ireland, as it existed in Ireland, whether vested in commissioners or any other body, should be applied, at least for the present, to ecclesiastical purposes; that the payers of tithe should have the option of commuting the tithes for a fixed payment in lieu of all future demand on account of tithe; but that the whole amount of revenue, in whatever shape it existed, should be at present applied to ecclesiastical purposes. He thought it but right to state with what impression he had come down to the House, and what was the general principle upon which he was prepared to consider any proposal for altering the condition of the Established Church in Ireland. He admitted that the time was now come when the whole state of that Church must undergo an enlarged and comprehensive consideration. The time had come when it was desirable that it should undergo that consideration, not so much for the purpose of conciliating any party hostile to the Church, but for the purpose of determining whether anything could be done to add to its stability and security. He had come down prepared to consider favourably any plan which might tend to correct the abuses of the Church—such as the holding of pluralities the duties of which could not be satisfactorily discharged by the individuals holding them, or the conversion into sinecures of functions which ought to be actively discharged. He was prepared to receive, favourably, any scheme of Reform, which, whatever might be its tendency to diminish the utility of the Church as a source of patronage to Government, might tend to propagate and extend the blessings of the Protestant faith. There were many parts of Ireland in which there existed no means for the support of the Protestant clergyman. There were many districts in which there was no Church and no glebe house.
 601 602 603 604 605 Cries of 606 607
 Sir Robert Peel : Then to whom are the compositions for tithes to be paid?
 Mr. Clay  presented a Petition from the Inhabitant Householders of Shore-ditch, praying for a Repeal of the House and Window Tax. The petitioners expressed their confidence in the intentions of his Majesty's Government to reduce the taxation of the country, and they were most unwilling to embarrass them. At the same time they considered it necessary to call the attention of the Legislature to the unequal and very grievous nature of the taxes. The hon. Member expressed his entire concurrence in the prayer of the petition, and would take another opportunity of expressing more at large his sentiments on the subject. At present he would only say that the tax was most objectionable, especially as it pressed with severity on the working classes.
 Lord Althorp  said, that his Majesty's Ministers would not place their convenience in opposition to the wish of the House, should the House prefer day-sittings.
 Lord Althorp : Sir, in coming forward to propose the measures with respect to the Irish Church Establishment, of which I gave notice, I think it necessary to explain why this task has not devolved upon my right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley), whose official duties render imperative upon him to make himself better acquainted with the state of Ireland than I can possibly be supposed to be. I am sure that no one who heard the admirable speech of my right hon. friend on the subject of Irish affairs, on a former night, will doubt for a moment that he is far more competent than I am to do full justice to any subject connected
 562 563 564 565 566 567 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 568 l 569 l l l l l l l l l l l l 570 l l l l l l l 571 l l l l 572 l l l 573 574 l l 575 l l 576 cheers 577
 Lord Althorp : Government meant to encourage commutation, and the proceeds would, of course, be paid to the clergy. That was a subject, however, which was not comprehended in this Bill. The Commissioners appointed under this Bill would have nothing to do with it.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was not quite correct to call it a corporation. Commissioners were to be appointed who would have the power of managing those matters, such as repairs and buildings, the expense of which was now defrayed by the Church cess, and the other duties which he had described would also devolve on them. Those Commissioners would not be in the nature of diocesan corporations.
 Lord Ebrington , from the interest he had always taken in this subject, was anxious to make a few observations, more especially after the speeches delivered by the two Members for the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge (Sir Robert Inglis and Mr. Goulburn). He assured them, as far as he was acquainted with the dispositions of Ministers, there was no intention to overthrow the Church Establishment of Ireland, and expressed his surprise that the hon. Baronet had departed a little from the habitual mildness of his nature,
 593 594
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, the feeling in favour of the repeal of these taxes was as prevalent throughout the country as in London.
 An Hon. Member  hoped, that the Ministers would not merely repeal the House and Window-taxes, but the whole of the Assessed-taxes; the other taxes would be very small, and the levying them
 617
 General Palmer  presented a Petition from the parishes of St. Peter and St. Paul, in the city of Bath, for the Repeal of the House and Window Taxes. The hon. Member also presented another Petition to the same effect from Walcot, in the county of Somerset.
 Mr. Kemyss Tynte  said, that as one of the Members of the western division of Somersetshire, he had been requested to support this petition. He knew that in no city in the kingdom were those taxes more oppressive than in Bath.
 An Hon. Member  said, that was certainly the case, and supported the prayer of the petition.
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that in consequence of the publication in yesterday's papers of a correspondence which had taken place between a gallant friend of his and the First Lord of the Admiralty, in which that right hon. Gentleman had thought fit to refuse the command at Portsmouth to the gallant officer in question, assigning as his reason for so doing, that he considered a seat in Parliament inconsistent with the holding of such a situation, he wished to put a question to the first Lord of the Admiralty on the subject. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman, whether there existed any order of the Admiralty that precluded any naval officer holding a command from having at the same time a seat in Parliament; and, if so, whether such an order was not equally applicable to a gallant officer, a Member of that House, who had at present his flag in the river, and also to another gallant Member of that House, whose frigate was at present abroad, with an acting officer on board, as well as to his gallant friend, the member for Lymington? If there was not such an order of the Admiralty Board, he thought it rather hard that because a respectable body of constituents had elected his gallant friend as their representative, his gallant friend should, on that account, be refused the command at Portsmouth.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that upon the Motion of the right hon. member for Cambridge, a return had been last night ordered "of all benefices in Ireland in which divine service, according to the forms of the United Churches of England and Ireland has not been celebrated within the three years ending the 12th of February, 1833." Now, as benefices frequently consisted of two or more parishes in Ireland, he (Mr. O'Connell) would move for an amended
 624
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the result of the two returns being made would be, that they would have correct information both as to the performance of duty in the benefices and in the different parishes. He knew, himself, of one benefice which was more than twenty-six miles in extent. There were about sixty Protestants in the parish at the extreme point of it, and in the other parish of which it consisted there was neither a Protestant nor a Protestant Church.
 Mr. O'Connell  would withdraw his Motion for the present, for the purpose of
 625
 Mr. Baring  had witnessed most improper proceedings on former occasions, when persons interested in any subject brought it forward, and then, as a matter of course, named the members of their own Committee, in which case either the partial proceeding had to be permitted, or the nominated Committee to be swamped by the addition of a dozen other names. As Reform was so much the fashion, he hoped that the House, looking with proper jealousy to any attempt to render it a tribunal for personal purposes, would take some means of rectifying the abuse of which he complained.
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed two alterations in this Order. As it now stood the vengeance of the House was threatened only against the Member who might have attempted to procure his return by bribery. This denunciation was too limited. Not only the Member, but all other persons who had acted in this manner, and to such an end, should be punished. His object was two-fold—namely, to punish persons who had bribed for unsuccessful candidates, as well as those who had bribed for Members that had been returned. The alterations he meant to propose would meet both these cases. He, therefore, moved first, that the words "procured himself to be" be omitted, and the word "been" inserted in their place; and secondly, that the concluding words "such person" be omitted, and the words "all such persons as have been wilfully concerned in such bribery,
 628
 Mr. O'Connell  said, if his first amendment stood alone, the alteration would be liable to the objection which the noble Lord had advanced; but if he would look at the effect of the two Amendments together, he would find that the Member could not be punished, unless he was himself cognizant of the bribery before and at the time when it took place. The words in the second Amendment, "all persons wilfully concerned in such bribery," would preclude the possibility of the injustice to which the noble Lord referred.
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed, as one of the modes of punishment, to make the guilty candidate liable to the payment of all the expenses upon the bribery being proved. He could not but regard the practice of giving sumptuous breakfasts, dinners, and two or three pounds to individuals, as, in substance, bribery. His great object was to bring before the House cases of unsuccessful bribery, and which were not likely other wise to be brought forward. Successful cases of bribery were likely to be brought forward by the defeated candidate, and they would be more frequently brought before the House, if it were not for the outrageous expense attending them. No person could bring a case of bribery before the House from a remote part of the kingdom, or from a borough in Ireland, without putting himself to the expense of from 1,000 l l l
 Mr. Ruthven  rose—not for the purpose of opposing the proposition, but, of entreating the House to preserve its character. He had read a report of a noble Marquess's speech sometime ago, (how far it was true he could not say) in which that noble Marquess had been pleased, in
 630
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad to find that the noble Lord was strongly impressed with the justice of the view which he (Mr. O'Connell) took of the subject; and that the Solicitor General concurred in the
 632
 Mr. Baring,  seeing the right hon. President of the Board of Control in his place, wished to know when he thought it likely that he would be able to hiring the question of the East India Company's Charter under the consideration of the House? He ventured to suggest that the great importance of the question to every part of
 633
 Lord John Russell  concurred in the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex; because they ought not to adopt so great a change as that now proposed, in so thin a House. The subject was one to which he formerly turned his attention; and drew up a resolution with respect to it very nearly resembling that now proposed by the hon. and learned Member. The objections which were stated to his resolution possessed, he thought, great weight. If a Committee were appointed to sit one day in every week to hear all matters which might be brought before it, he was afraid that it would open the door to numberless accusations from parties who had not sufficient evidence wherewith to proceed to an Election Committee; but who would avail themselves of the opportunity thus afforded of making general charges for the purpose of producing an effect against their opponents. The result of his deliberation was, that after all, the best course was, to appoint a Committee
 631 primâ facie l l
 Lord John Russell  said, his objection fell to the ground, in consequence of the hon. and learned Member's explanation
 Lord John Russell  said, the expressions, which the hon. and learned Member would introduce into the Resolution, were not so decisive as those already contained in it; and they would give rise to a question before the Committee, as to whether the candidate himself, or other persons, had been guilty of bribery? If the indiscreet friends of a candidate should without his knowledge, and against his wish, resort to bribery in order to secure his return, it would be carrying the principle of constitutional severity too far to punish him for their misconduct.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that the importance of the question to which the hon. Member had referred could not be overrated. It was at present under the consideration of the Government and the Court of Directors. The introduction of the subject into the House certainly would not be deferred to a late period of the Session; indeed, it was his intention to bring it before them at no distant period from the present time. Of course he could not pledge himself to the exact moment, but he expected it would be before Easter.
 Mr. Charles Grant  replied, that the Report of the Committee had been furnished to Members a fortnight since. With respect to the evidence and the appendices, they were so voluminous that it had been found impossible to complete the printing of them. That, however, was not owing to any want of exertion on the part of the printer, for he had been indefatigable.
 Mr. Harvey  thought it would be well to retain such a Standing Committee as that upon public justice. To such a Committee the case of the Baron de Bode, which had been so often ineffectually brought before the House, might be very properly referred, as it was impossible for the Members of that House, without due inquiry and without official knowledge on the subject, to do justice in cases of that description.
 Mr. Harvey  stated, that a series of questions, intended to be put to the principal clergy of the Established
 618
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he did not apprehend that much delay would be caused in bringing the labours of the Commissioners to a close by calling upon them to produce the information which he now sought for by the present Motion. That such information should be possessed by the House he did not suppose would be denied, and he thought it would be as readily conceded that this was the proper period for obtaining it, when, as he supposed, they were about to make a searching reform into the Church Establishment of this country, as well as into the Church Establishment of Ireland. Sooner or later, such information must be laid before Parliament, and the only question was, when they were to have it. If the report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was ready, it might be presented, and this information could be supplied in a supplementary report,
 622
 Mr. Littleton  said, that having been referred to by his hon. friend as one of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, he had no hesitation in stating, that the inquiries made by the Commissioners with regard to the Church Property in the hands of bishops would not furnish the information respecting the value of Church Property, as contemplated by the Motion now before the House; and he rather apprehended that the conclusion of the labours of the Commission would be materially delayed if the Commissioners should be obliged to go into the inquiries proposed by the hon. member for Colchester. He would state, that the fullest possible information had been afforded by the Prelates in reply to the inquiries of the Commissioners; that, indeed, no individuals could have exhibited a more anxious desire to communicate every possible information with regard to it; and this he was justified in saying of the Commissioners—that they had pursued their inquiries with as much diligence, and with as great a solicitude to arrive at the truth, as if the Commission had been composed of the most thorough-going Reformers in that House.
 Mr. Littleton  perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Essex, that nothing could be more detrimental to the public interests, than the bringing forward cases of alleged grievance, which had no foundation in fact. With respect, however, to the particular case to which the hon. Member referred, towards the conclusion of his observations, he (Mr. Littleton) should be prepared, when the proper time arrived, to prove that it was a fit one for the consideration of the House. If the House were to adopt the hon. Member's proposition, of referring all cases of personal grievance to a general Committee of Justice, the practice would be attended with most pernicious results. This Committee was originally the creation of violent times, when the House of Commons aimed at usurping all the powers of the State. This Committee obtained petitions from all parts of the country, setting forth grievances of all descriptions; and by this means succeeded in exciting a hostile feeling against the Government, which led to the Revolution. The time was past in which such dangerous machinery was necessary. If it should go forth to the world that this House had instituted a Committee of Justice to which all complaints could be referred, not a petty sessions through-out the country would pass without some attorney recommending a petition to be sent to the House. If the hon. Member
 627
 Mr. Goulburn,  although he denied, that the Revolution had been at all brought about by the Standing Committees, agreed with his hon. friend that they might be advantageously abolished. In allusion to what had fallen from the hon. member for Essex, he observed that the Orders of the House interposed a sufficient bar against the abuse of which the hon. Gentleman complained. By those Orders no claim of a pecuniary nature could be received without the recommendation of an Officer of the Crown. When he (Mr. Goulburn) was in office, he had always acted on that principle; and he thought that any Officer of the Crown who neglected to do so was guilty of a breach of duty, in not withholding his recommendation, unless he was satisfied that the claim was a just one.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that such a return would afford a most fallacious species of information, as in the case of two united parishes attached to one benefice divine service could be only performed in one of them, though the parishioners of both parishes had the means of attending it. As he understood the proposition of the noble Lord last night, it was that where, in the instance of a benefice, no duty had been performed during the last three years, it would be in the power of certain Commissioners to suspend the appointment to such benefice, and it was for the purpose of obtaining accurate information upon that point that he (Mr. Goulburn) had moved for the return that was ordered. He did not understand the noble Lord to apply his proposition to parishes.
 Mr. Warburton  observed that a large portion of the evidence taken before the Committee in the last Parliament was not yet in the hands of Members, and desired to know when it would be produced.
 Mr. Roebuck  supported the prayer of this petition; for it must be apparent to those who gave the subject proper consideration, that the Assessed-taxes pressed heavily on those who were least able to bear the burthen. The rent of the poor man bore a much greater proportion to his expenses, than the rent of the rich man did to his; therefore to assess the poor man, with reference to his rent, was most unjust and unfair—more particularly as such a system must be oppressive, in the extreme, to a large body of the people. He would respectfully beg every hon. Gentleman to look to this question, and to give the subject his best consideration. The Assessed-taxes were prejudicial in many ways; the Window-tax was particularly so to the health of the poorer classes; for they were compelled, in many instances, to shut out, not only the light of Heaven, but were also prevented from having a sufficient current of air, in times when fresh air was absolutely necessary to the preservation of health. Not only these, but other oppressive taxes ought to be done away with, when they were detrimental to the health of the people.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he wished to put a question on this subject to the hon. member for Staffordshire, who, he believed, was one of the members of the Ecclesiastical Commission. He wished to know from him whether any of their inquiries
 620 l l 621
 Mr. Hume  as there were some difficulties on the subject, recommended his hon. and learned friend to postpone his Motion until Monday.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) if the statement of the death of the Master of the Report Office, which he had read in the papers, were correct, and if the vacant appointment had been, or was intended to be, filled up? The emoluments of this situation amounted to 4,589 l s d
 Mr. Sheil  said, it struck him that there were but two effectual preventives against
 629
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that, in his opinion, these taxes did not press so heavily as some others; they were, however, most odious taxes, on account of the inequality with which they were levied, and the partiality of their operation. The great complaint of the people of England was, that the taxes were paid by the industrious part of the population, and received by those who did not work.
 Mr. Gore Langton  hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would take the prayer of the petition into their consideration; and that they would also, with a view to some alteration in taxation, take generally into their consideration the distressed state of the country. The people were really, and not nominally, dying of starvation.
 Mr. Harland  asked whether it was intended to diminish the number of the Irish Ecclesiastical Representative Peers in the House of Lords?
 Sir Francis Burdett  presented a Petition from St. Anne, Westminster, for the repeal of the House and Window Tax.
 Sir James Graham,  in reply to the question of the noble Marquess, had no hesitation in saying, that there was no order of the Admiralty Board, disqualifying naval officers who happened to be Members of that House from holding naval commands; but, at the same time, he did not suppose that it would be disputed that a discretion was vested in the Commissioners of the Admiralty as to the individuals whom they should select for the approbation of his Majesty to be appointed to situations with which great public duties were connected.
 623 Stag
 The Solicitor General  observed, that the existing law on the subject required alteration. By the law as it now stood, there was no bribery unless there was a previous contract; so that money was not distributed until after the election, and then, although the electors who received 5 l l
 Sir John Hobhouse  supported the prayer of the Petition, and hoped his Majesty's Ministers, if consistent with their duty, would attend to this Petition, and all others of the same kind.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it was not his intention to propose a diminution in the number of the Irish Bishops in the House of Lords. While he was upon his legs, he would remind hon. Members that it would be a much more convenient and satisfactory course for them to put such questions to him, in reference to the details of the measure, when they were in Committee upon it.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not think that this was a return at all called for at present, while the production of it would throw a considerable impediment in the way of the conclusion of the labours of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He understood the object of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, if object it had, to be, that the Commissioners should inquire into the value of Church Property, not merely with a view to ascertain its amount, as applicable to the support of the Church, but also to ascertain the amount of that property that was applicable to the support of private individuals. Now, it appeared to him that it was not at all necessary to have such a return. Besides, the hon. Gentleman's Motion certainly did not apply to the motion which had been before the House last night, for, as he understood it, the hon. Gentleman's Motion applied solely to England, and had no reference whatever to Ireland. Where, he would ask, was the necessity for the Ecclesiastical Commissioners going into a complete valuation of all the Church lands in England, which they must do in order to comply with the terms of the hon. Gentleman's Motion? What object would be gained by their going into an inquiry so extremely operose, and so utterly unnecessary? Such a return, in the end, would prove nothing with regard to the revenues of the Church; it would only show what fines were imposed upon the renewal of leases for Church Property, and what sums were given for long leases of such property. Was it necessary for such a purpose that they should go into a valuation of all the Ecclesiastical lands in the kingdom? Such an inquiry would not put that information into the hands of
 619
 Lord Althorp  said, that in the statement which he last night made upon the subject referred to, and which had been repeated on the same occasion by his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, he meant to say this—that in his opinion all the sums of money that would be derivable from the increased value of the land occasioned by the mode of purchasing leases of Church Property in perpetuity that should be devised by Parliament, ought not to be considered Church Property, and that therefore, without infringing upon, or at all bringing into question, the principle, with regard to which he was aware that great difference of opinion existed,—namely, the principle of the applicability of Church Property to state purposes—he thought that the proceeds to which he had alluded should be considered as State Property, and applicable to such purposes as to Parliament should seem fit.
 Lord Althorp  was not aware of the vacancy mentioned by the hon. Member, or the amount of the emoluments attached to the situation.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had postponed the Standing Orders with regard to the Committees upon religion, privileges, &c., for the purpose of taking the sense of the House, as to appointing them. That appointment bad been hitherto a matter of course; but if the sense of the House should be now against it, he should not press it. Indeed, those Committees, of whatever use they might have been of at a former period, had long since become altogether unnecessary. For instance, in a case of privilege, every one was aware that the usual and the better course was, to refer it to a Select Committee, rather than to the Standing Committee of Privileges, which consisted of almost all the Members of that House; he should therefore withdraw his Motion for the appointment of those Committees.
 Lord Althorp  said, that his proposition certainly applied to benefices, and not to parishes, and there could be no doubt that where two or three parishes were united under one benefice, divine service might be, as he believed was usually the case, only performed in one of them; therefore it did appear to him that the return moved for by the learned Gentleman would give a fallacious view of the case. There might certainly occur extreme cases, such as that which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just mentioned, but the return he had moved for would not point out such cases, while it would enumerate parishes in which divine service had not been performed, though the parishioners might have had full means of attending divine service in the parishes united to them.
 Lord Althorp  moved the following Order: "That if it shall appear that any person hath procured himself to be elected or returned a Member of this House, or endeavoured so to be, by bribery, or any other corrupt practices, this House will proceed with the utmost severity against such person."
 Lord Althorp  said, that the Committee upon justice was like the others, a mere nominal one, and equally unnecessary. He agreed with the hon. Member, that it would be better to refer cases of the description he spoke of to a Committee, than to the whole House, but the best way to do that was always to move the appointment of a Select Committee for the purpose. Who, for instance, would move that a ease of privilege should be referred to the Standing Committee of Privileges, which was, in reality, the whole House, with this difference, that instead of meeting in that place, it met in the long
 626
 Lord Stormont  wished to know from the noble Lord what he meant by those words in his Speech last night, which had been just referred to by the hon. member for Colchester, where he spoke of the proceeds that would be derived from letting out ecclesiastical lands in Ireland in perpetuity? Did the noble Lord mean that such proceeds should be devoted to ecclesiastical purposes or not?
 Mr. O'Connell  detested as much as any man the blasphemy of which the person in question had been guilty; but he did not like the principle of punishing for variations of creeds. What was still worse, too, it tended to increase the blasphemy. The family of this man, when he was sent to prison, opened a blasphemy shop in Fleet Street [ No Carlile.
 Mr. Pryme  knew of nothing in the New Testament which justified the persecution of those who differed from us in our opinions. Probably, many of the Members of that House, like himself, were members of Missionary Societies, who sought to propagate their creed in countries where a different belief prevailed, and the inhabitants of which would, perhaps, view them in the light of blasphemers. He thought it, therefore, highly inconsistent for such Gentlemen to seek the punishment of any man who aimed at the propagation
 636
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  moved for a Return connected with the Agricultural Employment Act. Thesystem contained in that Act in many parishes had been adopted with great advantage; and he knew that the promoters of the measure entertained great expectations from its general adoption. Owing, however, to a construction which had been put upon some of the provisions of the Act, some difficulty had arisen, and he understood that the hon. member for Shoreham would bring in a Bill to amend it. His Motion was, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty for a "Return of the number of parishes in each county in England and Wales, in which a plan has been agreed upon by the vestry, and approved by the Magistrates in Petty Session, for the employment of the poor of such parish, under the provisions of the Act 2nd and 3rd Will. 4th, c. 96." He would take that opportunity of saying, that the abuses of the Poor-laws were become an enormous grievance. He wished therefore to know whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring forward, or originate any measure relating to the Poor-laws, during the present Session. It could not be deferred much longer, it was a subject of too much magnitude for any individual Member to take up, but was one that required the talent, the means, and the responsibility of his Majesty's Government. He presumed the Commission appointed would soon make a Report; but he thought it very frequently happened that Commis-
 637
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  begged to move for a Return connected with the criminal jurisprudence of the country. By an Act passed during the last Session of Parliament, the punishment of death had been removed from many crimes which before were capital. One of the consequences of that measure, not anticipated probably by the Legislature, was, that a large portion of those offences which, before, fell only under the jurisdiction of the Judges, now came under the cognizance of the Magistrates, and a great change had been effected in the administration of justice in the country. By the alterations, all cases of horse and cattle stealing, sheep stealing, stealing in a dwelling-house to the value of 5 l 638
 Mr. Wallace  said, that as a member for the largest sea-port town in Scotland, he must—
 Mr. Wallace  again rose, as a Member for the largest sea-port town in Scotland, to express his regret that Scotland was not placed in this proposition on the same footing as England. Was not the Union with Scotland as complete as the Union with Ireland? Why, then, should the former be treated differently from the latter? He was one of those who entertained a great respect for the learned Lord Advocate; but he entertained a still greater for the wishes of his constituents; and he was sure that he spoke the sentiments, not only of the inhabitants of the great sea-port which he had the honour to represent, but of the whole of Scotland, when he declared, that the Municipal Institutions of Scotland contained greater abuses than those of England and Ireland united. He trusted that the Reformed Parliament would investigate abuses of every description. Among other matters which might be beneficially inquired into, was the office of the Lord Advocate himself; and he thought it might be shown, that in many respects it was an office utterly inconsistent with the present state of society. In the meanwhile, he earnestly intreated the learned Lord to consider the expediency of giving to Scotland the same advantages as it was proposed to give to Ireland, with reference to this most momentous question. Many advantages would result from the investigation by a Committee, of the manner in which these Corporations were constituted; and he repeated his conviction, that the iniquities of the Scotch Corporations would be found to exceed the iniquities of the English, Welsh, and Irish Corporations united. If the hon. and learned Member could succeed in prevailing upon the noble Lord to include Ireland in his proposition, he earnestly hoped that the noble Lord would yield to a similar solicitation, and include Scotland in it. He would move to substitute the words, "Great Britain," for the words, "England and Wales."
 The Lord Advocate  expressed his extreme regret, that, owing to an accident, he had not been in his place when the hon. member for Greenock made his observations. If, in answer to those observations, he had to state that the omission of Scotland in the Motion of his noble friend arose from the slightest doubt of the propriety or necessity of extending Corporation Reform to a country in which it was so eminently required, he should feel that he had a very difficult task to perform. But when he stated that the reason why Scotland was not included in his noble friend's proposition was directly the reverse of that supposed by the hon. member for Greenock, he trusted that he should set himself right with the hon. Gentleman and with the House. That reason was, that his Majesty's Government were prepared with a measure to reform the Corporations of Scotland in a more direct and simple manner than was proposed with respect to the Corporations of England and Ireland; with regard to which the tedious but indispensable investigation of a Committee was previously requisite. A similar Committee was not necessary with reference to Scotland, because, for forty years past, the state of the Corporations of that country had been constantly under discussion. Lord Archibald Hamilton had moved inquiries upon the subject year after year, and in consequence of the Reports of his Committees, and the information which those Reports contained, a great variety of publications had been generally circulated; so that the materials for rectifying the abuses in the Corporations of Scotland were abundant and mature; and the delay which would be occasioned by the inquiries of a Committee was rendered unnecessary. There was another reason why the Corporations of Scotland should be treated separately from the Corporations of England and Ireland. No three or four of the Corporations in England and Ireland laboured
 650
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  observed, that his hon. friend, although he decried the formation of a Committee of that House to inquire into the state of Corporations, had not stated the means by which an investigation of the subject might more advantageously be entered into. After the statement of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that, in the selection of the Committee, he should name those Members who were most likely to come to a just and impartial decision, he thought his hon. friend's observations rather hard, and a little unfair, especially at a time when he did not know who the members of the Committee were to be. Connected as he (Sir M. W. Ridley) was with a large Corporation, he
 652
 Mr. O'Connell  could not but express the great pleasure he felt, that the Members for Scotland were so satisfied at the determination of his Majesty's Government to rectify the abuses in the Corporations of that country; and he likewise felt it his duty to express as distinctly the very great gratification which it gave him, that the noble Lord had included the Corporations of Ireland in his Motion. He was the more gratified with the circumstance, because he was sure that it would not be a mock, but a real inquiry, entered into with a determination to correct the abuses which might be detected. He knew of no greater grievance in Ireland than the existence of the Corporations in question, in their present shape; and nothing could be more satisfactory to the people of Ireland than the approaching certainty that that grievance would be redressed. For above a century there had been a daily increasing dissatisfaction, occasioned by the monopoly of authority on the one hand, and the entire destitution of it on the other. Perhaps he ought to be more slow in the expression of his approbation, after the remark made the other evening by the hon. Baronet (the member for Westminster), that because he (Mr. O'Connell) approved of the measures proposed by his Majesty's Ministers with respect to the temporalities of the Church in Ireland, he ought therefore not to disapprove of the measures which they were about to propose, of an unconstitutional character. He would not hesitate, however, to say, that the proposition which had been made that evening by the noble Lord, would be hailed with great satisfaction in Ireland; and so it ought to be. If
 653 l l
 Mr. Roche  expressed his approbation of the Motion, which he thought would give great satisfaction in Ireland.
 Mr. Wallace  was willing to withdraw his Amendment, but hoped the learned Lord would include all the Corporations of Scotland in his Bill.
 The Lord Advocate  replied that it was his purpose to do so.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know if the proposed Bills were to be applicable to Ireland as well as to England.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there certainly was a difference. He hoped, however, that these Bills would be extended to Ireland, as they would be most beneficial in their results. As to the one affecting the statutes of limitations, some express arrangement might be entered into upon the subject of them.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that one of the difficulties anticipated by the right hon. Gentleman would not occur, for no Committee of that House, upon a question of election of a Member of that House, could be bound by the opinions of any or all of the Judges. There was, therefore, no necessity for waiting on that account. But, on the other hand, there were many reasons why the consideration of the petition should not be delayed. The witnesses had already been sent for, were on their way hither, and of course would speedily arrive, and must be kept at the expense of the petitioner if any delay should occur.
 Lord George Lennox  was ready to support the first Resolution, but he could not give his assent to the second. The question was, whether that House or his Majesty was to bestow rewards on public servants. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Al-thorp) that this question would be more properly discussed when the Estimates came under the consideration of the House. He did not approve of the policy of abolishing these sinecures. A noble relative of his, the Duke of Gordon, was colonel of the 1st Royals, a regiment that had been in India for the last tweny-four years. The noble Duke's situation was undoubtedly a sinecure.
 Lord George Lennox : The hon. member for Middlesex said, it was not a sinecure, while the hon. and learned member for Dublin seemed, by his cheering, to have a different opinion of the subject. He would leave them to settle the matter between them; but he was ready to admit that, in his opinion, the situation was a sinecure. Still he doubted the policy of abolishing such sinecures. If they did away with these places, in what situation would they place the officers of the army? Let them recollect that a major-general, after having risked his life for thirty or forty years in the service of his country, and spilled his blood, had not more than 17 s
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex and himself would very soon come to an understanding with respect to the sinecure which had been mentioned by the last speaker. That sinecure did not fall within the terms of the present Motion; but if the present
 679 680 d.
 Mr. Strickland  could not avoid addressing a few words to the House, to account for the vote which he should give on the present occasion. He owed his seat in that House to his adherence to Reform, his advocacy of every retrenchment, and his enmity to all sinecures; and it might be asked, why, on the Motion now before the House, he gave his vote to Ministers. He hesitated not to say that he should do so, because, even if he gave his support to the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he should not effect a saving of 1 s
 Captain Dundas  said, that after having served his country in the wars, he had been sent to that House by an independent constituency; and he must declare his conviction, as an officer and a Gentleman, that the navy of England was never in a more effective state than at present. He would also add, that the country paid enough for it, and he spoke as a payer and a receiver. The pensions were the reward of meritorious services, and but few, after a service of fifty years, received more than 300 l
 Capt. Yorke  had spoke of Portsmouth, in which dock-yard there was not, he believed, a lower mast for a line of battle ship.
 Captain Yorke  held opinions quite at variance with those expressed by the hon. member for Surrey. He was satisfied, at least as far as the navy was concerned, that pensions and sinecures were given to those officers in the service who best deserved them. He knew that, generally speaking, those situations were given to officers who had distinguished themselves by their long services in the cause of the state, and who, by virtue of those services, richly deserved the gratitude of that House and of their country, and the greatest honours from their King. He admitted that the right hon. Gentleman, the
 693 l
 Colonel Davies  thought, that the noble Lord complained without any reason that the present was not a proper or a convenient time for a discussion of this question. The noble Lord said, that a better opportunity would be afforded for considering the propriety of continuing these sinecures, when the Estimates were laid before the House. But—if he mistook not—the object of the hon. member for Middlesex, in bringing the subject forward thus early, in a separate form, was to prevent any further appointments being made, in the interval which must elapse before the introduction of the Estimates. For his part, he was decidedly of opinion, that his hon. friend had adopted the right course; because he was convinced that
 677
 Mr. George Williams   merely rose to briefly state his view of the question. It was his unbiassed opinion that all extravagance in the public expenditure should be immediately put a stop to. He said it was his unbiassed opinion, as he was not influenced by any promise or pledge made to his constituents. Indeed he stood there in a most peculiar situation. It was with the greatest unwillingness that he accepted the honour of a seat in that House, to which he was sent in direct opposition to his own inclination. He never sought the honour of a vote in that assembly; for, to tell the truth, he never saw his constituents, nor did they even know him. He repeated, his constituents never knew nor saw him, until he went among them to thank them for the confidence they had placed in him by electing him as their Representative. Upon what ground, then, did they elect him? Why, they just knew enough of him to be convinced that he was an unfliching opposer of all useless public expense. They knew this because he had opposed all extravagance within his local power, in the hundreds and parishes in the vicinity of his residence; consequently it was not surprising that he should now publicly support measures of economy. He should be glad, if he could do so conscientiously, to support the present Ministers, because he thought them honest; indeed the only honest Ministers that had governed the country for many years. Yet if they failed in their promises of economy—and they had made solemn ones, still fresh in the minds of the people—he would not hesitate one moment in
 681
 Major Beauclerk  rose, amidst loud cries of "Question, question." He would only detain them for a very few minutes. He was convinced from his knowledge of military men—and he knew very many—that nothing was more hurtful to the army in general, or more disagreeable to the majority of the officers both of the army and navy, than those sinecures. He knew it to be the case; for nothing could be more disagreeable to them than the collision into which those sinecures brought them with the people, and the bad feelings they created throughout the country. They did not object to the particular services performed by officers being rewarded, and well rewarded; but they objected to the system of officers obtaining sinecures, not for services performed, but because they happened to have powerful friends in that House. It was amusing to hear the right hon. Baronet (the First Lord of the Admiralty) talk as if sinecures and pensions were always given to men of merit, and to men of merit only. He would grant that since that right hon. Gentleman was in office men of merit had been advanced to posts of honour and emolument; but he would beg the House to look to the service in general, and say whether the men who deserved best of their country for their services were those who enjoyed sinecures, or whether it was always merit which met with the greatest reward? He thought that the reverse of that proposition was very
 692 l
 Major Beauclerk  presented a petition, signed by several individuals, praying for the release of all persons incarcerated for blasphemy. The petition particularly alluded to Mr. Robert Taylor. He regretted that any person should be found to oppose, much less argue against, the Christian religion; but, however much he disliked such doctrines, he conceived that it was most unjustifiable to punish persons for enter-taining different opinions; or for doing
 635
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the report of the Committee appointed to examine into the precedents, if any, which exist, for receiving the affirmation of Quakers, in lieu of the oaths which are usually taken by Members of the House. Conceiving that this was purely a judicial question, he wished, before proceeding further, to deprecate any discussion on abstract principles, relative to the expediency or inexpediency of administering oaths to Members, previous to their taking their seats in the House. They were not sitting, in the present case, in a legislative, but in a judicial capacity; and it was, therefore, their duty to consider, not what the law ought to be—not what it might most advantageously be rendered, but what it is. They must recollect that they were now called upon to administer the provisions of an Act of Parliament of the construction of which they were not the sole judges, inasmuch as, by the enactments of this Statute, it was in the power of any com-mon informer to bring the question before a court of justice, in order to ascertain whether a person taking his seat in that House, without having previously subscribed to the oaths, was not liable to pay the penalties provided by the Statute. The real merits of this case appeared to him to lie in a very small compass, and to depend upon the construction of the 22nd George 2nd, c. 46, which was appended to the Report. The only doubt which could be raised upon the subject proceeded from the decision which the House had previously come to in the case of Mr. Archdale; which decision, however, was made, not under the Act of George 2nd, but under the Act of 7 and 8 Will. 3rd, c. 34. Now it appeared to him that there were real and material distinctions between the two cases, as the passing of several Acts of Parliament, since that time, had contributed, in a great degree, to alter the grounds upon which that case depended; but, at the same time, he would say, that the words of the Act of the 7th and 8th William 3rd, were so strong, that if he had been in the House when Mr. Archdale's case was decided, he would have voted against the majority. As far as the decisions of courts of justice could influence the judgment of the House, he
 640 641 642 643
 Mr. Littleton  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman could not have been properly instructed as to the facts of the case, and he should only now observe, that strong as it might appear to be to the right hon. Gentleman, the other side would seem equally strong when it came to be heard. He ought to add, that the petitioning candidate and his friends
 660
 Mr. Robinson  seconded the Motion, though he had formed no previous concert with the hon. member for Middlesex, and he sincerely declared, that as a Member of that House, he felt that his hon. friend had made out a strong case which showed that, in the aggregate, those sums did press heavily upon the community, and exhaust the resources of the country. Bearing in mind the declarations formerly made by the noble Lord and his colleagues, he should certainly be very much surprised if they, this evening, came forward to defend the system which it was the object of the hon. member for Middlesex to abolish. That hon. Member was entitled to the best thanks of the House for taking this early opportunity of directing its attention to the subject; because, as he properly stated, no notice had as yet been given by his Ma-jesty's Ministers of any intention on their part to bring forward measures for the reduction of taxation, the retrenchment of expenditure, or the abolition of sinecures. This, as the hon. Gentleman remarked, was a very great omission, because it had created a doubt in the minds of the people, as to whether Ministers meant to fulfil, or not, the pledges which they gave previous to their coming into office. He knew that, on former occasions, the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, defended these naval and military sinecures, and, therefore, it would not be inconsistent in him, if he should now oppose the abolition of them. At the same time, he put it to the noble Lord to consider, whether, in the present state of the country, and in the high situation which he filled, he would consider it judicious to repeat the
 672 673
 Mr. Barron,  expressed his gratification at this subject being taken up by the Government. He complained that vast sums of money had been embezzled by the Corporation of Waterford, which ought to have been devoted to the service of the people.
 Mr. Barron  had alluded to what occurred sixty or seventy years since, when be charged that Corporation with embezzlement.
 Mr. Goulburn,  in rising to move the postponement of the consideration of the Coleraine Election Petition, said, that the petitioners complained, that, at this election, several persons having a claim to register were refused by the Barristers, and their names not received. Between the English and Irish Bills upon this subject, there was a wide distinction—in England, the decision of the registering Barristers was final; but in Ireland, when any persons thought themselves aggrieved by the award of these functionaries, they had an appeal to the Judge at the next assizes. The next Londonderry assizes commenced on the 20th of March. If this question were now discussed by the Committee, and the Judges were afterwards called on for their opinion, they might think themselves bound to adhere to the decision of the Committee; and, on the other hand, the Committee might say, that as the power of deciding had been intrusted to the Judges of the land, they had no power. Now he proposed to avoid both these difficulties by having the opinion of the Judges taken, so that it could afterwards be submitted to the Committee for their adoption or rejection. His wish, therefore, was, that the consideration of the Coleraine Petition should be postponed till Friday, the 27th of March, and, as the opinion of the Judges would be taken on the 20th of March, the Committee could then have the benefit of it for their guidance.
 Mr. Labouchere  would trespass but a few moments upon the attention of the House, nor would he enter into any argument upon the question, being content to rest his vote upon the speeches of the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord
 704 l
 Mr. Briscoe  could not give a silent vote on this question, particularly as he meant to vote in a different manner from his hon. Colleague who had already spoken. If he gave his vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he should be voting for a great constitutional change. Secondly, if he gave his vote for that Motion, he should not, as had been stated by the hon. Member opposite, give any relief to the people of England. He should not give them any relief, but, on the contrary, he should take a large sum of money out of their pockets. It was a great constitutional principle, that the control of the army should be placed in the hands of the Crown, subject to the vote of that House; but the Motion would vest the control of the army directly in the House. If he were an important Member, he would move an Amendment, to the effect, that an inquiry be made whether or not military sinecures could not be placed on the same footing as the sinecures of the navy. Surely, nobody would say, that the places which were given to naval officers—nobody would say that the office of Rear-Admiral of England was a sinecure which ought to be abolished. He would give his vote honestly against the Motion, because it would not give relief; though he should be ready to give relief by any sacrifices he could make.
 Mr. Roebuck :"then I am to understand that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), one of the principal Ministers of his Majesty's Whig Administration, an administration professing Reform and retrenchment, does not wish to do away with sinecures?" What would the people think, when they found that Administration giving the whole force of their powerful opposition to the first attempt at economy of a Reformed Parliament? The object of the hon. member for Middlesex was to send forth to the country some assurance that an end would be put to that odious system under which the people of England were taxed for the payment of exorbitant pensions and unmerited sinecures. The right hon. the First Lord of the Admiralty, thought it would be an act of immorality to curtail the patronage of the Crown. In his (Mr. Roebuck's) opinion, it was much more immoral to continue the distress of the country by the maintenance of their present burthens. It was true the emoluments in question were small, but the condition of the people imperatively demanded that every penny should be saved in every department. He did not think the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) expressed a very complimentary opinion of the army and navy, when he laid down the position that it was necessary to place at the disposal of the Crown, posts of emolument and honour, to induce gallant officers to do their duty. If such a position was just, he (Mr. Roebuck) entertained a very erroneous opinion of those individuals who composed the officers of his Majesty's service. The noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had adopted a similar position to that laid down by the right hon. Baronet. That noble Lord asserted that, by taking off 7,000 l l 690 Cries and 691
 Mr. Roebuck  thought it was a strange sight to witness Ministers, while professing themselves the uncompromising advocates of Reform and retrenchment, fighting the battle, as it were, for every old abuse connected with the public expenditure, and squandering the money of the people, as if their funds were inexhaustible. What was the nature of the present Motion? The resolutions which the hon. member for Middlesex had moved went simply to establish a principle—a principle which he denied any real friend of that retrenchment in the public establishments, which the people expected, could oppose. To the first of the resolutions the noble Lord
 689
 Mr. Hume  rose to reply. He meant to detain the House but a very few minutes, but there were some things he must remark upon. The hon. member for Taun-
 711 l 712 J. Hothouse: l 713
 Mr. Hume : True; he had forgotten the battle of Waterloo. Would any Member who cheered so loudly tell him that Lord Frederick Fitzclarence was at Waterloo? This was an instance, therefore, of the manner in which military sinecures were abused. He begged it to be clearly understood, that he wished to deprive no military or naval man of the due reward of his services, and he hoped that the country would never be backward in giving that reward; but he wished that all should be openly done, and then he
 669 670 l 671
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear it; he had begun his reference to the right hon. Baronet by saying, that he did not think he could have changed. In the same spirit, Mr. Brougham, in a celebrated speech, had called upon the House "not to disregard the universal voice of the nation, loudly calling for retrenchment;" and after charging the then Government with not having paid due attention to that voice, he went on to complain, that "those who refused to listen to the call for economy, in utter disregard of the feelings of an insulted nation, proceeded from one
 667 l l 668
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear that. If the noble Lord served as an amateur, he of course could make no objection. If the noble Lord, however, had any real duties to discharge, he ought to be paid for them; for volunteer services from any men, where there was any business to be done, were not desirable. Like honorary secretaries, they were sure to slip into some good thing or other at last. Who was this gallant and deserving veteran who now held the Lieutenancy of the Tower? He entered the Coldstream Guards on the 12th of May, 1814, so that he had never heard a shot fired.
 Mr. Hume : It is not a sinecure.
 Mr. Hume  rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which he deemed of the utmost importance. The state of the country loudly demanded the most rigorous economy on the part of the Government; and the Parliament were bound to relieve the country from its present burthens. On a former occasion he had complained of his Majesty's Speech, for omitting to notice, as he thought it ought to have done, the sufferings and distress of the people, and their demands for reduced taxation. He was, however, willing to believe, that the Ministers were convinced of the necessity of reducing the amount of expenditure. Another part of the complaint he had then urged was, the recommendation of harsh measures towards Ireland. He was happy to be able to say, that the Motion of the noble Lord two nights since had agreeably disappointed him on the subject of that complaint. The measures which the noble Lord then brought forward was one of peace and conciliation, and he had no doubt it would be received in Ireland as such. The measure which the noble Lord had this night introduced was one of the next degree of importance to Parliamentary Reform, and he trusted would be found satisfactory to the people of all the great towns of this country. As he had before complained of what he thought to be the inattention of Ministers to these subjects, he now begged leave to return
 661 l l l 662 663 l l l l off. l 664 665 666
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to hear such a remark nora the hon. member for Oldham. That an act of injustice had been perpetrated towards one person, was no reason why it should be continued towards another. He hoped, when the Bill was brought before the House, that the hon. Gentleman would act on a more liberal principle. He had himself received a petition on the same subject from Mr. Taylor; and as he had been two years in prison in a most miserable condition, he hoped his Majesty's Ministers would take his case into consideration.
 Mr. Hume,  after the satisfactory explanation of the learned Lord, recommended his hon. friend to withdraw his Amendment. Having been a member for four years, of a Committee on the subject, he could assure his hon. friend that the abuses of the Royal Burghs in Scotland had been very fully disclosed. He hoped the learned Lord would not fail to comprehend all the Corporations in this measure.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Amendment, and confirmed the declaration of his hon. friend, that the abuses in the Corporations
 649
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  was surprised at the speech of the hon. Baronet. Before the hon. Baronet made any allusions to speeches at College-green or any where else—and made those allusions as re-
 709 ad captandum valgus; 710 l
 Mr. Sheil  was a good deal surprised at the manner in which the right hon. Baronet, the first Lord of the Admiralty, had expressed himself on one subject—an expression made use of with that peculiar modesty for which that Gentleman was distinguished. He (Mr. Sheil) was struck with his saying that "he gave such and such offices—he made such and such appointments," Now he (Mr. Sheil) thought that the sole question was, whether that right hon. Gentleman should continue to give those offices in future; whether he was to select the individuals on whom to confer such offices; or that the House of Commons should have the selections of the proper objects of reward. He begged that no Member should consider the question at issue, as to the continuance or abolition of the offices in question; the real question was, whether his Majesty's Ministers should have the power to confer rewards on the public servants; whether they were to be the medium through which the gloriously maimed, and illustriously mutilated—[ Laughter 697 698
 Mr. Slaney  must take it upon him to urge the Government to give the subject their immediate attention. He did not think the Labour-rate Bill had proved very advantageous.
 Mr. Christmas  only wished to defend the Corporation of Waterford from the unfounded charges brought against it by his hon. colleague. He was sure that his hon. colleague was quite misinformed.
 Mr. Cobbett  thought that the Act alluded to by the hon. Baronet, possessed some advantages, and he knew instances of its having been most beneficially acted on. It would, however, be a great improvement, were they to require that farm servants, and agricultural labourers should be lodged and boarded with their masters.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he neither knew the petitioners nor the person alluded to in it, though he knew that Mr. Taylor was accused and convicted of blasphemy. He abhorred the crime for which that person was confined, although he thought it singular that his imprisonment should proceed from those who cheered when petitions were presented for the emancipation of the Jews. Why, if they emancipated the Jews, that people would be on a footing with Christians. They would make them Judges and Justices of the Peace. He would oppose every attempt to unchris-tianize the country.
 Mr. Cobbett : When I entered this House, almost the first word I heard from the right hon. Baronet opposite, the First
 694 695 A laugh. l
 Mr. Ewart  hoped that the objections which had been made to the enlarged jurisdiction of the magistracy, would not be considered an argument for reverting to the old system as to punishment; but rather, for the creation, if any alteration were necessary, of some new species of tribunal, such as that recommended by the present Lord Chancellor, which would combine celerity with propriety in the adjudication of secondary punishments.
 Mr. Peter  was satisfied that the inquiry
 655
 Mr. Tooke  stated, that in 1831, ten members only of the Corporation of Truro returned two Gentlemen to represent Truro in the House of Commons, and who had been so returned for two or three previous Parliaments, but as conclusive evidence of such representation, or rather misrepresentation, he might add that no sooner had the Reform Bill passed, than the nominated Members for Truro vanished from the annals of that borough, and from the knowledge of its numerous and enlightened population. The Corporation of Truro resembled, from its composition, rather a collegiate than a municipal body, as it chiefly consisted of the three learned faculties of law, physic, and divinity, comprising, within its  maximum
 Sir Edward Codrington  would venture to observe, that though he would willingly come before the House to have his conduct, before any reward had been conferred upon him for any services he might have rendered to his country, canvassed, yet he would prefer to have that reward conferred by the opinion of the highest power of the realm, subject to the confirmation of the House. In giving an opinion on the subject, he must say, he felt that the interests of the service were concerned, and he felt persuaded that the pensions were as much the right of those who possessed them as was the half-pay of those who had acquired it. He said, that both were a right, because it had been insinuated that the half-pay was merely a retaining fee for future, and not a reward for past, services. This position could not be maintained, when it was remembered that the seaman after fourteen' years service, received his reward: and was not the same principle to be extended to the officer? Determined as he was, to support Ministers on the present occasion, he must add, viewing the matter as a question of economy, that the system of conferring distinction with small pay was the most economical that could be adopted. The remuneration to naval officers was much overrated; and he would venture to say that, if accounts could be produced since the year 1785, with a statement of all that he had received, it would be seen that he was considerably out of pocket by his services. He objected to the consideration of the question as one of sinecures,
 706
 Sir Francis Burdett  thought no further arguments on the subject were necessary, after the speeches of the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty, and the right hon. Baronet, his own colleague. He only rose, therefore, to vindicate his independence as a Member of Parliament. He had heard, this evening, addresses made to the House which surprised him, and which were very well adapted for the Corn Exchange in Dublin, or a promiscuous multitude assembled round Covent-garden, but in a deliberative assembly such addresses were not to be expected. Was this House to be told that the people expected this or that? Every honest man placed before the eyes of the world as a legislator in this country would not, he trusted and believed, be swayed by such observation, nor hesitate in giving such a judgment on the question as his conscience approved. No better service could be done than by bringing before the people, in a true point of view, this question, that the public might not be led away with what had been called sinecures, without thought or consideration, but which did not apply to the subject before the House. So far from the system being an additional demand upon the purse of the country, it was a diminution instead of a tax on either the rich or the poor. If services were to be rewarded, the present so far was a question of economy; but as a great constitutional question his vote would be determined. A vulgar view— ad captandum emeriti 707 708 No.
 Sir Francis Burdett,  in explanation of the observation in his speech to which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had alluded, said, that what he had stated was, that the measure respecting the Church of Ireland, proposed by his Majesty's Ministers, evinced so good a feeling towards that country, that the hon. and learned Gentleman might feel assured, that whatever powers might be intrusted to those Ministers, would be in no way abused. So far from defending an infringement of constitutional rights, his
 654
 Sir James Graham  said, across the Table, that they were not changed.
 Sir James Graham  assured the hon. Member, who had just sat down, that as one of his Majesty's Ministers he was grateful for the confidence which the hon. Member had expressed himself ready to repose in them, and that he was ready, in common with the rest of his colleagues, to enforce every measure of real economy which prudence dictated, and the efficiency of the service duly warranted. Unlike the hon. Member, whose constituents had neither known nor seen him until after his election, he had been for the last four or five years connected with a large constituency, which both knew and saw him. Among them he had passed his life—to them he had pledged himself to pursue the most rigid economy—and before them he should be ashamed to appear again, if he were to fail to fulfil his pledge even to the very letter. Anxious as he was upon all questions to stand well with his constituents, he was more particularly anxious to stand well with them upon this; for he admitted that this question, as it had been presented to the House by the hon. member for Middlesex, and the hon. and learned member for Dublin, was one of great public importance. The hon. member for Middlesex had reminded him of the conduct which he had pursued whilst sitting on the other side of the House, and had paid him the compliment of saying, that whilst in opposition he had used every exertion in his power to enforce economy in every department of the State. The hon. member for Middlesex had recollected that his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with whom he (Sir J. Graham) had cooperated both in office and out of office,
 682 683 l l l l l l 684 bonâ fide l 685 686 l 687 Mr. Hume 688 l l
 The Solicitor General  had to bring forward a series of measures for the purpose of making certain alterations in the laws relative to Real Property, but he would occupy the attention of the House for a very short time. He regretted that so little attention was paid by hon. Gentlemen, generally, to subjects of this nature, although they were of the greatest importance. In the two last Sessions of Parliament he had brought forward similar measures, but without success. Often, after he had given notice of his intention to proceed with these bills, when the day came, there had been no House. At other times, when the Order of the Day was read, it served as a signal for a general dispersion. He hoped that the attention of the House and the country would now be directed to this subject, and that the public would no longer have to complain of the conduct of their Representatives in not getting rid of the evils to which the present state of the law of property exposed all classes. Since the reign of Charles 2nd no alterations had been made in the laws relative to real property in England; and all the grievances which then existed still continued—even aggravated by the changes which had taken place during that interval in the state of society. He had now to move for leave to introduce five bills; which, if carried, would, he trusted, remove a few of the evils now experienced. The first of these was, to
 656 657 658
 The Solicitor General  said, there was
 659
 The Solicitor General  said, that it was with very great pleasure indeed, that he rose to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. After the able and lucid manner in which that right hon. Gentleman had explained the law upon the subject to the House, it would ill become him (the Solicitor General) to oc-
 644 645
 Sir John Hobhouse,  the battle of Waterloo was subsequent to May, 1814.
 Sir John Hobhouse  observed, that no salary was annexed to it.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that he should not feel it necessary to trespass on the indulgence of the house for more than a very few moments; but after what had fallen from some hon. Members opposite, he could not allow the discussion to close without saying a few words. He fully concurred with the hon. and learned member for Louth ["No,  no"]—for Kerry for Tipperary. 699 Beauclerk 700 701 d. l l 702 703
 Mr. Maurice Berkeley  thought it quite impossible for any person who was acquainted with the sufferings and distress of the labouring portion of the people to oppose the abolition of sinecure places. He should therefore give his support to the present Motion; but in doing so, he begged to be understood as having a full confidence that Ministers would go on with those wholesome measures of economy.
 678
 Sir Oswald Mosley  said, that he had given his support to the Ministry hitherto, because he thought that their measures deserved support, but on this occasion he regretted that he should be obliged to withdraw his support. He was the last man in the world who would object to giving those who had served their country, with honour to themselves, and advantage to the State, an adequate reward, but he thought the better way would be to remunerate every man according to his work.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, it had been truly stated, in the Speech from the Throne, that there never was a time at which subjects of greater importance than those which were about to be considered bad been brought before Parliament. But he could not recollect any reference in that Speech to the state of Municipal Corporations. And when subjects of such vast importance were about to undergo consideration, he could not see the expediency of burthening the House further with a question of so much magnitude as that under discussion. He thought it would have been much better if his Majesty's Government had adopted on this occasion the course which they took with the Reform Bill, and if, without submitting the question to the previous consideration of a Committee, they had themselves originated a measure. The excitement of the recent election must have left the great majority of the Members of that House prejudiced either for or against Corporations; and he did not think it fair or just that they should constitute a tribunal to inquire into the subject. He would offer no remarks on the policy of the measure, or on the great responsibility which his Majesty's Government took upon themselves in proposing the abolition of all the chartered Corporations of the country. He did not stand there as the advocate for Corporations; but he must say, that there could not be a more unfit tribunal to try the merits of those Corporations than the Committee proposed by the noble Lord.
 Sir Robert Inglis  asked whether the Committee would have the power to call for Charters?
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, that as he had always been an advocate for economy, and had invariably supported the hon. member for Middlesex in every measure of retrenchment which he had proposed, he thought it proper that he should give his reasons why he meant to vote against his present Motion. The first of the resolutions moved by the hon. Member he thought should be supported by every man who was a friend to his country; but the second resolution required, in his opinion, further investigation. He was not at all afraid of opposing the hon. Member on this question, because he must be aware that he did not oppose the Motion from any wish not to enforce economy in every department, but because he did not consider it as coming plainly before them at present. He was inclined to support the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the subject. He could assure the House, that when the question of the abolition of an office came before them, in which there was no duty to do, he would with all his heart vote for having it done away. He was an equal
 696
 Lord Althorp  denied, that he had expressed himself favourable to the second resolution.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he entirely agreed with both the hon. Members who had just spoken, that it was the bounden duty of that House to put an end to all expenses which could not be proved to be necessary. That was a general proposition in which he concurred; but it was necessary to look at the question before the House, both with regard to its own merits, and the time at which it was brought forward. When the estimates came under discussion, the hon. Member and the House would have an opportunity of expressing an opinion, by a separate and substantive motion, on every one of those places, which he must say, he thought had been improperly
 674 675 676 l l
 Lord Althorp  replied they would have no more power than any other Committee.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in rising to bring forward the Motion, of which he had given notice on the subject of corporations, he felt it due to the House to take the opportunity to state why he did not persevere at present in the other Motion of which he had also given notice for this evening, for giving Corporations to the new boroughs in England. He had that measure in such a state of preparation that he could have advantageously brought it before the House, but circumstances which had since come to his knowledge with regard to those boroughs showed him that it would be desirable to make some alterations in the details of the Bill, and he therefore thought it right to postpone it for the present, in order to afford more time for its preparation. But it appeared to him that the sooner the House took the other measure—that which regarded ex-
 646 647
 Lord Althorp  begged the hon. Member's pardon for a moment. He had omitted to state the reason why Scotland had not been comprehended in his proposition. That reason was, that his learned friend, the Lord Advocate, had a Bill in preparation for the correction of abuses in the Corporations of Scotland.
 Lord Althorp  said, that at present it was not the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to originate any measure on this subject. He stated the other night, that the Commissioners were shortly expected to make a Report. Until then, he could not say what course his Majesty's Government would adopt, as, till they had the desired information, they could not tell whether it would be necessary to frame a new law, or whether the abuses could be remedied under those that now existed.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was not a Government prosecution. He agreed with the hon. member for Cambridge, that nothing could be more improper or disadvantageous than instituting prosecutions for the sake of preventing argument. But when, instead of attacking religion by fair argument, it was attacked by ribaldry and exhibitions of gross indecency, the case was altogether different, and no person of a serious mind could refrain from expressing his disgust. Though he feared that even then no great advantage arose from prosecutions.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he was quite sure they were indebted for this petition to the circumstance, that the individual sent down to this place by the hon. member for Middlesex had been defeated by his hon. friend, whose uniformly honest and independent conduct had justly endeared him to the electors of that town, in the neighbourhood of which he possessed considerable property. He was certain that his hon. friend had not been privy to any undue interference with the freedom of election in this instance.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that it was extremely desirable that Government should state as soon as possible what its intentions might be with respect to that portion of the Six Acts which still remained in force, and whether they intended to bring in a Bill for the purpose of removing these enactments from the Statute Book? He hoped they would speedily return to the course appointed by the Common Law, as to the mode and the period of trial. He hoped that these Acts would soon be obliterated from our laws. He was surprised at what had fallen from the noble Lord in his attempt to show that the Government had not been over severe in enforcing the penalties of the Act. If the finances of the country required the imposition of these penalties, surely they ought not to be left to be enforced by common informers. If, out of 250 cases, only sixteen had been brought forward at the instance of the Government, it showed either a great remissness on its part, or a strong feeling of the injustice of the law which they had to enforce. There was another point of view in which the petition of Mr. Hetherington deserved consideration; and that was with relation to the
 770
 The Attorney General  observed, that the convictions had nothing political in them. A representation had been made on the subject in the proper quarter, and he had no doubt that proper steps would be taken respecting it.
 Mr. Lennard  believed, that his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, intended to introduce a measure for the purpose of abolishing so much of those odious acts as related to the question of libel; and he was sure if he did so, he would receive the support of the great majority of that House.
 Mr. Ruthven  condemned the introduction of any measures by which the liberties of the subject were restricted. He found fault, therefore, with the system of prison regulation adopted by magistrates both here and in Ireland, and instanced the case of Mr. Hodnet, a respectable gentleman of Cork, who had been incarcerated, and made to suffer every privation, in consequence of having taken some part in a tithe meeting.
 Mr. Baring  was of opinion that the learned Gentleman's objections to discussions like the present, pronouncing them highly inexpedient, and possibly mischievous, while the negotiations and policy to which they referred were still pending—would, if acted upon, almost put an end altogether to the check and influence which Parliament properly exercised over the Executive Government in the conducting of our foreign policy. Neither was the learned Gentleman's taunt against hon. Members on the opposition side of the House, of their wish to embarrass Ministers by such premature discussions, better founded, for in point of fact this was the first occasion of any interference with the foreign policy of Ministers on the part of an opposition Member; and surely if ever there was an occasion that imperiously called for the interference of Parliament, the conduct of Ministers with regard to Holland was a proper one. Here was an embargo imposed at the mere discretion of the advisers of the Crown which had been now in force three months, which was seriously detrimental to the best interests of the country, and yet concerning the necessity of which Parliament
 800 l s 801
 Mr. Baring  thought the speech of the noble Lord to the electors of Hampshire was to the effect he had quoted, but, of course, he was bound to accept the noble Lord's present version. Then the question came to this, was the embargo justifiable under the circumstances in which it was imposed? The noble Lord had himself stated that England had no direct interest in interfering, and that, in mediating between two states with both of which we were on friendly terms, British interests were not injured. But how was this reconcileable with the fact that our commerce with the Netherlands had been entirely suspended for nearly three months, by the mere exercise of the prerogative of the Crown? He repeated, that our whole commerce with an old ally, with which we had long maintained the closest intimacy, had now been suspended some three months, by the mere exercise of the royal prerogative, without any information justifying the Act having been laid before Parliament. If the Crown could thus, by the mere exercise of its prerogative, suspend the commerce of the country for three months, why not for three years? Where was to be the limit? What was or what was not a justification? He maintained, that the learned Gentleman had failed in showing, that by the law and usage of the constitution, the suspension to which the present discussion referred was justifiable, not to
 802 onus probandi 803
 The Attorney General  had come down to the House prepared to prove, that the embargo of which hon. Members opposite complained was perfectly justifiable by the law of the land and the practice of the constitution; but was in a great degree spared the task by the observations of his learned friend, as well, indeed, as by the course pursued by the right hon. Baronet who had opened the present discussion. The question, after all, lay in a short compass—was or was not the embargo legal and justifiable? If the right hon. Baronet were correct in his premises, there could be no doubt that it was unconstitutional and unjustifiable; but he denied the validity of the right hon. Baronet's premises. In doing so he would carefully avoid founding his objections on mere technical points of difference of interpretation of statute law and of the provisions of Magna Charta, referred to so dexterously by the right hon. Baronet. He would confine himself to the abstract principle of the justice of the embargo, confident that at the proper time Parliament would be put in possession of such facts as would show that it was actually unavoidable, with a view to preserving the peace of Europe. The abstract principle then was involved in the question, was it a constitutional exercise of the royal prerogative to enforce an embargo of this nature? No hon. Member could deny that it was a part of the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown to declare war or peace. Then he would contend, that the circumstances which justified this exercise of the prerogative applied,  a fortiori 804 de facto de facto 805 806
 Mr. Lewis Fenton  bore witness to the demoralizing tendency of the Beer Bill: scarcely a murder, fire, or robbery, took place in the country but had its origin at a beer shop. The hon. Member defended the conduct of the magistracy.
 Mr. Charles Cavendish  presented a Petition from Pevensey, against the system of Tithes, and for Church Reform.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  concurred in opinion with the hon. member for Dublin. He wished, however, to know whether Mr. Hetherington was to be kept in prison till he paid the fines, for if that were the case his confinement would be perpetual.
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that there was one grand fallacy in the arguments of those who had spoken upon the subject of beer shops; and that was, that they supposed that the increase of the number of the houses in which beer was retailed, necessarily implied an increase of the quantity of beer consumed in these houses. Unless the quantity of beer consumed in these houses were increased, the whole of the argument fell to the ground; since the number of the houses could be of no detriment if the consumption was not considerably increased. The Legislature, in passing the Act upon the subject of the retail of beer, had not contemplated the mode in which these shops are supplied by the brewers. The best method of preserving the morals of the people, in his opinion, was, by giving them a wholesome beverage at a moderate rate. He thought, that there ought to be small brew houses, to which people might bring their barley in
 765 l
 Mr. Sanford  thought the hon. member for Bridport, had not answered the hon. member for Berkshire. He, indeed, admitted the fact. He concurred in the view taken by hon. Members of the bad consequences of the Beer Bill. With regard to the observation as to the Magistrates being displeased at losing their monopoly, it was neither correct nor honourable to make such imputations. In the towns, he believed much jobbing did exist; but that was not the case in the country. In the towns, too, the operation of the Beer Bill might have proved beneficial; but whoever compared its effects in the country by its results in large towns, would find himself most miserably deceived.
 Mr. Faithful  supported the petition. The Church had no indefeasible right to this property. A change in the present system would do more to raise up the agricultural interest than ten Parliamentary Reforms. As a Dissenter, he felt the tithe system to be a great hardship, and he hoped the grievances under which Dissenters laboured in this respect would not be lost sight of. In this case the incumbent being a pluralist and a nonresident, it made the matter as bad as it could be, even in Ireland.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that where beer
 763
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of Battle, for a Repeal of the Duties on Malt. He expressed a hope that some other Members would join him in urging the Government to repeal these duties as well as those on hops, so that the poor man might have good wholesome beer at a cheap rate, which the Beer Bill had not given him.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  said, that there was scarcely anything for which the people in that part of the country were more anxious than for Church Reform and a commutation of tithes. The vicar of the parish whence this petition came was a pluralist, and had not done duty there for seventeen years. However, he must do him the justice to say, that he was not opposed to Church Reform, though himself a glaring instance of its necessity. The English people would not be satisfied without they received equal relief with the Irish.
 Mr. Herries  thought, that the exhibition of the net as well as the gross receipt and expenditure, would tend to attract Members to the subject, and perhaps make them attempt a diminution of the expense. He wished to know when the noble Lord contemplated the possibility of making his financial statement for the year?
 Mr. Warre  supported the prayer of the petition. He believed that the great majority of the people were opposed to the tithe system.
 Mr. Wilks  having been requested to support the prayer of this petition, did so most cheerfully, though he did not entertain similar religious opinions with the petitioners. The petitioners sought for national education on those tolerant principles which could alone render the experiment comprehensive, and beneficial. The hon. member for Wigan had quoted the case of the Manchester Free School, and had informed the House of the great abuses which existed in that institution. The subject was connected with another topic of public importance. In 1816, 1817, and 1818, Select Committees were appointed to inquire into the state of the
 760
 Mr. Brotherton  expressed his concurrence in the sentiments contained in the petition. It was unnecessary for him to trespass on the time of the House, by enlarging on the advantages of a national system of education. No one could doubt that the better instructed the people were, the better chance there was of checking crime. Although he was disposed to admit, that an extensive system of education would be a powerful means of preventing crime, he was of opinion that education alone, without a reduction of the burthens of the people, would not be found a sufficient remedy. Taxes produced poverty, and poverty produced crime; for it was always found that in years of the greatest distress there was an increase of crime. If the burthens on the labouring classes were lightened, if the hours of labour were reduced in our manufactories, and a national system of education promoted, the country might expect to enjoy peace, if not great prosperity. The petitioners expressed their belief that much might be done in the promotion of education, without laying on any additional tax on the people for that purpose, and in that opinion he concurred. According to returns made to Parliament, the revenue of endowed schools in England amounted to upwards of three millions annually; and he had little doubt, if the funds of the different charities, which had been left for the purpose of educating the people, were judiciously appropriated, ample means of instruction might be pro-vided without additional taxation. If the unappropriated income of the Manchester Free School, which his hon. friend had
 761
 Mr. Hume  rose to present a Petition from certain inhabitants of South Shields, complaining of improper practices at the late election. The petition was numerously and respectably signed. It complained that, during the last election, the various parties who had signed the petition had been subjected to such influence as prevented them from giving an honest and conscientious vote for the election of Members to represent them in Parliament. They were persons whose situation in life did not enable them to brave the threats of certain individuals. They had been placed in danger of losing their employment if they voted in opposition to certain parties. Some parties had actually been subjected to a loss of property in consequence of their votes on the occasion of the election. It was his (Mr. Hume's) belief, that not only at South Shields, but at many other places, practices had been resorted to, which were perfectly incompatible with freedom of election. The petitioners prayed, upon these grounds, that the House would take into their consideration the means of preventing such intimidation, and such improper practices at all future elections.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that it was out of deference to the feelings of the Hon. Member, that particular instances in proof of the allegations of the petition had been omitted. He had to complain of the use of certain expressions on the part of the hon. member for South Shields, which seemed directed against himself.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from the Reverend Robert Taylor, complaining of his having been confined for two years in Horse-monger Lane Gaol, with the additional sentence of being fined 200 l l
 Mr. Hume  thought it was much to be regretted, that in this, the second year of a liberal Administration, they should still have one of the Six Acts in existence, and a number of prosecutions instituted under it. He well recollected, when those Six Acts were proposed, how strongly the noble Lord opposite (Lord Althorp), and many of those around him, opposed them day after day, while they were supported by the right hon. Baronet below him (Sir Robert Peel) as necessary for the safety and security of the country. He remembered also that at that time the present Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench said, that if such laws should be passed, the constitutional liberties of England would no longer exist, and the late Sir James Macdonald expressed an equally strong opinion against them. Yet, under one of these laws, so characterized, 250 victims had been made to suffer since the present Administration came into office. There had been 170 victims when he last moved for a return on the subject, for the continuation of which return he would move on Monday next, and the prisons were at present full with persons confined for similar offences. He must say, in justice to the right hon. Baronet below him, that though that right hon. Gentleman and his party had obtained this law, they had never enforced it,—that though they had called for it as expedient, at a time when the country was in a very critical situation, they had never put it into execution. The fact was, that since the present Government had come into office, more victims had been thrown into prison on account of those cheap publications than ever had been before since England was England. Could there be grosser persecution than this—that for an offence of this description, an individual should be dragged from his family, thrown into prison, there confined in the dead of winter, from 5 o'clock in the evening till 7 o'clock in the morning, in a cell seven
 769
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. member for Shoreham (Sir Charles Burrell) had asked, whether the House was anxious to protect the morals of the people. Did the hon. Member suppose, that the best method of protecting the morals of the people was by suppressing the beer shops, and thus driving the lower orders to the gin shops. Before the hon. Member attributed the immorality of the people to the existence of the beer shops, he ought to have inquired what was the state of morals in the United States of America, and in France, where no restrictions upon the sale of intoxicating liquors existed. He would find that in these countries the free trade in these commodities had been productive of none of the results which had been attributed to it in this country. The cause of crime, in his opinion, was neither the existence of beer shops nor of gin shops, as superficial observers asserted. The true cause of the increase of crime, was nothing but the want of education. The brutalizing effects of ignorance, and not the beer shops, was the cause of the demoralization of the people, of which complaints were so frequently made. Remove that ignorance, and they might allow the beer shops to be open as long as the beer-drinker pleased, without injury. That House and the Government had reason to be ashamed that some national system of education had not long since been adopted.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the reason why the financial year had been altered from January to April was, that the House might have the Estimates, and the general statement of the financial Minister under their view, before they were required to vote any additional sums. The Commissioners of Public Accounts had been engaged for three years in considering the best means by which those accounts might be simplified—he should like to know what they had done. l l
 Mr. Hume  expressed his opinion that the labour of the Commissioners being completed, their salaries should cease. l
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had intended, could he have found a time, to call the attention of the House to the state of the annual supplies. In his opinion the Estimates ought to be laid on the Table before they voted the supplies. The Revenue of the country amounted to about 50,000,000 l l l 832 l l
 Mr. Potter  presented a Petition from the Unitarian Congregation of Green-gate, Salford, praying the House to take measures to promote a National System of Education,
 759 l l
 Mr. Ingham  disclaimed any intention of using offensive expressions.
 Mr. Ingham  said, he certainly could not support the prayer of the petition, although it came from the town he had the honour to represent in that House. It was said, that petition was numerously signed, and he did not mean to contradict the assertion, but he would venture to say, that it was not signed by any of the persons who took a part in the last election. In saying this he did not mean, in the slightest degree, to disparage the petitioners; on the contrary, he was one of those who thought every man entitled to the free exercise of his
 766 hinc illœ lacrymœ
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, that he had been one of those who originally opposed the measure. He agreed with his hon. friend in the view which he had taken of the question. Those of the Members of the House who were Magistrates would find, upon inquiry, that it had proved very injurious to the labouring classes, and was the main cause of much of the immorality and insubordination which prevailed amongst them; and so far from giving the poor a cheaper and better liquor, the beer brewed by the large brewers was better and cheaper than that at the beer shops. It was his intention to move for a Committee of Inquiry on this subject. The noble Lord opposite, (Lord Althorp) had said, he would not object to such a Committee. He would, however, defer his motion till the noble Lord had laid before the House his financial arrangements, as he did not wish in the least to embarrass his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Slaney  said, he had originally been in favour of the measure. The right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge did him the honour to put him upon the Committee; but he then, though he approved of the principle, thought it ought to be accompanied by greater restrictions. More security should have been required. At present the owners of the beer shops were all men of straw; but if they could only be opened by men of some little property, the public would have something like a guarantee for the manner in which they were conducted. By attention to this point, he thought they might introduce a
 764
 Mr. Sergeant Spankie  presented a Petition from Henry Hetherington, complaining of the prosecution which had been instituted against him, and the confinement to which he had been subjected, for the publication of unstamped publications, and praying that if his imprisonment was to be continued, the law should be enforced against the  Penny Magazine
 Dr. Lushington  said, that as the observations which he had made on a former occasion had been so frequently the subject of notice by the right hon. Baronet, the House would pardon him if he troubled them with a few remarks in reply to the right hon. Baronet, and in justification of the sentiments he then delivered. He assured the House, that in doing so, he should not feel it necessary to detain them long, nor should he attempt to contest many of the propositions which the right hon. Baronet had laboured to establish; least of all should he be disposed to deny, nor had he even in the whole of his life, denied, the doctrine which the right hon. Baronet had eloquently enforced at the end of his speech, that in all our dealings with foreign states, in all our intercourse with them, and more especially in dealings of any kind between Great Britain and states of minor importance, it was the duty of this country, as well as her interest, ever to adhere to those principles of justice, and of international law, whereby the weaker were defended from the oppressions of the stronger. He had ever been the advocate of such principles, and he had often had to deplore that the governments with which the right hon. Baronet had been successively connected, had so often shown such little regard for the rights of foreign states, and so little respect for those principles of magnanimity by which it was justly said, the intercourse of great with small states ought to be conducted. Indeed, he had but to look back to the year 1814–1815, when what was called the settlement of Europe took place, to see the numerous examples in which Great Britain had forgotten those doctrines which it now suited the purpose of the right hon. Baronet to maintain. That they might be observed, was his perpetual prayer—that they might ever be treated as objects of respect he most ardently desired, and so long as he had a seat in Parliament, he should ever be found, when any administration swerved from them, to be the first individual to denounce such misconduct. He should be the last man in the world to justify the
 792 793 794 795 Robert Peel: 796 797 798 799
 Mr. Gillon  said, that he was a proprietor of lands in that vicinity, and was most earnest in wishing that the prayer of that petition should be attended to. He considered that the Church had no indefeasible right to the property of the tithes, but that they belonged to the nation. As a Dissenter, he felt the hardship of the present Church system still more strongly. The system of tithes depressed the energies of the country, and increased pauperism by draining the country of its resources, and bestowing them on pluralists and absentees, as was the case in the present instance; it required a most comprehensive and searching reform.
 Sir Charles Blunt  said, the clergyman in this case derived 1,200 l 762
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that as allusion had been made to the Beer Bill, he must say that he opposed it at the time, and considered it as a most unfortunate measure, and one which had tended to the demoralization of the people. One great object that it professed was to give to the labouring man wholesome beer for himself and his family, without the necessity of resorting to a public-house. But he would venture to assert, that scarcely an extra gallon of beer had been brewed in private houses since the Beer Bill had passed. If the House were anxious to protect the morals of the people, it would at least make great alterations in the law if it did not rescind it altogether. He thought the repeal or diminution of the Malt duties would prove much more advantageous to the labouring man than this Bill.
 Mr. Pollock  confessed, that he was by
 807 808 809 de facto de facto 810
 Mr. Pollock : Hostilities had taken place in the case of the United States.
 Sir James Scarlett  did not fear contradiction, when he said, that his right hon. friend, the member for Tamworth, had argued this question with a degree of perspicuity and force, which would have done honour to any Member whatever of the legal profession, at the same time, that his speech was, in all other respects, worthy of his own high parliamentary reputation.
 815 816 817 818
 The Solicitor General : I cannot but very much lament the tone of declamation with which my hon. and learned friend has concluded his Speech. It is from such appeals that the Dutch king has been induced to resist the equitable arrangement recommended to him by the Five Powers to whom his differences with Belgium were submitted. The motives of the hon. Gentlemen opposite are, no doubt, pure and patriotic, and they have no intention of embarrassing the foreign policy of his Majesty's Ministers; but I must be allowed to express my perfect conviction, that if it had not been for the encouragement held out to Holland in the British Parliament to resist the British Government, the Belgic question would long ago have been settled; no danger of war would have arisen, and the embargo complained of never would have been imposed. Although I was not in office when this measure was resorted to, I should be quite willing to share the responsibility of advising it; for, after deeply considering the subject, I can entertain no doubt of its legality. My hon. and learned friend, despairing of succeeding on the merits, has resorted to
 811 a special demurrer Iliad 812 quia timet 813 que la mer soit ouverte 814 v Finis operis nomen imponit
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  thought it was rather unfair on the part of the noble Lord to taunt his right hon. friend (Sir Robert Peel) for not having brought forward this subject last year, for upon several occasions when it was brought forward it was postponed at the urgent request of the noble Lord himself. Even now the noble Lord told them the subject was not yet ripe for discussion, because the papers were not yet before the House. He must complain too of the noble Lord for having given, in his narrative, an unfair epitome of the proceedings of the Conference. The noble Lord had forgotten to tell the House one important fact, namely, that there was no separation between Holland and Belgium  de facto 829 830 status quo Palmerston 831 war
 Sir Robert Peel : The embargo placed on American ships was imposed after a declaration of war on her part.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, I rise, in pursuance of the notice which I have given, to make some observations on a subject of the highest interest to the commerce of this and other countries, and involving some considerations of great constitutional
 771 772 773 nisi publicè prohibiti publicè prohibiti publicè 774 775 1st. That the power of making laws to bind the people of this realm is exclusively vested in his Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords spiritual and temporal and Commons of the realm in Parliament assembled; and that every attempt to make, alter, suspend, or repeal such laws, by order of his Majesty in Privy Council, or in any other manner than by his Majesty or Parliament, is unconstitutional and illegal. 2nd. That the advising his Majesty to issue any Order in Council for dispensing with or suspending any of the laws of this realm, is a high violation of the fundamental laws and constitution thereof; that the same cannot in any case be justified but by some unforeseen and urgent necessity, endangering the public safety; and that in every such case, it is the duty of his Majesty's Ministers to advise his Majesty, after issuing such Order, forthwith to assemble Parliament, that due provision may be made for the public safety. 3rd. That the law of nations is a part of the law of the land, and that neutral nations, not interposing in the war between his Majesty and his enemies, have a legal right to such freedom of commerce and navigation as is secured to them by the law of nations. 776 The Edinburgh Review que la mer soit ouverte 777 778 bonâ fide 779 Parliamentary Register 780 781 782 783 784 785 786 787 788 Que la mer soit ouverte 789 A 790 791
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. Member was quite misinformed with respect to the number of convictions on Government prosecutions for offences against the Stamp Act in respect to periodical publications. The whole number of these prosecutions, instead of 250, was only sixteen, of which Hetherington certainly had given occasion to three cases. There had been many more cases certainly; but these were not instituted by the Government. They were brought forward by common informers, with whom the Government had no connexion; and whose only object was, the recovery of the penalties to which they were entitled by the Act. With respect to the repeal of the taxes on periodicals, the noble Lord said, he should decline making any statement whatever.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. Member's object was to have the whole expenditure and receipts exhibited on one balance sheet. But the object could be easily attained, for, under the separate heads, accurate accounts were given of every branch, including that of the collection of the revenue. All these were under the control and check of the House. As to forming the Estimates before the expenditure, he (Lord Althorp) deemed that impossible. It was the intention of Ministers to issue a Commission for investigating the collection of the Excise, Customs, and other branches of the revenue. No other course was possible in a matter so complicated; but he hoped that improvements would be effected in the collection of the revenue. There were glaring defects in the present system, and he would endeavour to remedy them.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the general balance sheet recommended by the hon. member for Middlesex might be beneficial as respected the expenditure of the past year, but not with reference to that of the current year. It was impossible for him now to say when it would be in his power to make his general financial statement. The financial year did not expire until the 5th of April; and it was too much, therefore, to expect that the general statement hould be made so early.
 Viscount Palmerston  admitted, that the right hon. Baronet was correct, but to constitute a state of war, the consent of two parties was necessary. Though America declared war previous to the embargo, England did not declare war for many months after; and in the mean time the English Government endeavoured to negociate with the American States. This was an evidence, which the hon. Gentlemen opposite would perhaps admit, that there was nothing incompatible in the co-existence of negotiations and an embargo. If war had been declared, what possible use could there have been for an embargo, when we had it in our power to seize and confiscate immediately the vessels and property of the enemy wherever we might find them. Letters of marque and reprisals would, in that case, have been the proper course to be
 823 Robert Peel 824 Robert Peel: 825 826 827
 Viscount Palmerston  had not presented himself to the notice of the House at an earlier period of this debate, because he had been desirous to hear, before he addressed it, the arguments to be adduced, on the other side, in support of the proposition endeavoured to be established by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth. It had been a source of satisfaction to him to listen to the able and convincing legal statements of his hon. and learned friends who had preceded him—a circumstance which would render it almost superfluous for him to endeavour to add anything to the legal proof of the case, which they had so convincingly established—namely, "that the embargo was not only consistent with the municipal law of this country, but, also, with the general law of nations." He must say, that he never heard an argument more completely overset than that by which it had been attempted to be established that this embargo was either inconsistent with the law of the land, or was, as the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had endeavoured to represent it, an act of robbery and piracy with reference to the law of nations. With respect to municipal law, everything which had been adduced on the other side, had fallen to the ground. The right hon. Baronet contended that there was an analogy between this embargo and that of 1766; and he inferred that the opinions given against the legality of that embargo clearly proved that the embargo lately imposed upon the shipping of Holland was equally illegal and invalid. The right hon. Baronet
 819 820 821 Robert Feel: 822
 Viscount Palmerston : I beg pardon. Hostilities had not taken place at the time of the embargo. It is true that hostilities followed. The United States had declared war; but this country had not declared war at the time of the embargo.
 Viscount Palmerston : I spoke as to the mere fact of hostilities, and not of their possibility.
 Mr. Baring  said, that although the measure of last Session had been intended as an act of grace, in practice it had in various cases operated injuriously. He hoped the petitioners would have some relief.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it seemed to him that the case had been made stronger by the observations of the noble Lord than it had been left by the statement of the hon. member for Oldham; for the statement of the noble Lord had, in effect, shown that there were other taxes in which the same inequality existed. That inequality did oppress the poor. He could not agree with the noble Lord that the poorest class were not oppressed by these taxes, for every man who wanted to rent a tenement of 5 l Hon. Member 871
 Mr. Faithfull  hoped that the Motion would not be withdrawn, and contended that, even though it might be tinged with irregularity, the Reformed House of Commons would not allow itself to be bound hand and foot by technicalities. He especially entreated the Solicitor General to proceed with his undertaking, the object of which was, to break up the monopoly of the law, and to restore the reign of
 873
 An Hon. Member  suggested, that they should be separated, and that the proposal for inquiry should stand by itself.
 Mr. Lloyd  recommended the adoption of the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Ruthven  declared that, although he approved of the principle of the Resolutions, he would not thus hastily and prematurely vote for them.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to address the House. Often as he had endeavoured to direct its sympathies towards the wrongs of his country, unhappy, ill-fated Ireland, he never felt so painfully anxious as at that moment. He would most carefully avoid all vehemence of expression—indeed he felt far too deeply to vent his feeling in mere vituperation. He had, on a former occasion, made use of the terms brutal and sanguinary" in reference to the Address in answer to the Speech from the Throne; that Address having since obtained the sanction of that House, he would no longer apply to it the language of reproach. His present object was far other than attempting to characterize by strong language the proceedings of Ministers towards Ireland, No; the injuries were so deep, that to denounce them in mere abusive language would deprive grief of its dignity. He could wish to
 874 875 876 l l l l l l 877 878 Habeas Corpus, for 879 Habeas Corpus 880 881 Habeas Corpus 882
 Mr. Wynn  rose to order. He begged to submit to the Speaker, whether it was within the rules of debate, that any hon. Member should discuss measures not yet before the House, and which were in progress in another place. While the hon. Gentleman was discussing general topics relating to Ireland, he did not interrupt him; but now he was entering upon the specific provisions of a particular Bill, he felt it his duty to interpose and to appeal to the Chair. The Bill to which the hon. Member referred, might perhaps never come before the House of Commons.
 Mr. O'Connell : I have been given to understand that the King's Ministers have certain measures to propose; and before agreeing to any supply, I am anxious to ascertain the nature of those measures. I have not specified a single provision of those measures.
 Mr. O'Connell,  Ay, the majority of five. Three military officers, who have been two years in the service, and have attained the age of twenty-one, will be sufficient to decide on the lives, liberties, and properties, of Irishmen.
 Mr. Stanley  rose to order. We find one hon. and learned Gentleman correcting another, in order that he might be most minute and correct as to the details of the measure submitted to the consideration of the other House; it is therefore a farce and an absurdity to say, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin is avoiding the details of the measure now before the other House; but he goes on and perseveres in the discussion of those details; knowing, at the same time, that his Majesty's Government cannot join issue with him upon any one of these details.,
 Mr. O'Connell : The right hon. Gentleman says, that he and his colleagues cannot answer me; and by way of establishing that position, he treats me to an instalment of a reply. I confess I am utterly unable to comprehend what there is to prevent the right hon. Gentleman from following me through the whole course of the observations which I have been making. I attribute to his Majesty's Ministers certain designs, and I tell them that I will vote against going into a Committee of Supply, until I have expressed my opinions and feelings as to what those designs are said to be, and until I have ascertained precisely their scope and tendency Oh! give us some fair play. What; will you not only oppress the unfortunate Irish themselves, but silence their chosen though talentless advocate? Am I thus to be put down, and replied to by instalments?
 Mr. O'Connell  then continued to the following effect—the exceedingly courteous manner in which the opinion of the Chair is always announced in this House would, of itself, make me most anxious to avoid any topic that could in the slightest degree render it necessary for you, Sir, to advert to any course which I might be pursuing in any other terms than those of concurrence and approbation; but I really think that I shall not have any difficulty in reconciling the observations and inquiries which I have made, and those which I intend to make, with the rules and practice of this House. I rise to put some questions to the members of his Majesty's Government, respecting a measure which I understand they have in contemplation, and which measure they will not be able to carry into effect if the present vote of supply be refused. The Finance Minister of the Crown comes forward to demand a vote of 3,000,000 l 884 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus;
 Mr. O'Connell : I am desirous of not transgressing order; and I really think, if what I have said, and what I intend to say, be viewed in its true light, no hon. Member will say, that it is out of order: and I am sure it is because I have not succeeded in making the form in which I pursue the object I aim at apparent, that I am thus supposed to be out of order. I do attribute certain designs—not to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland—because, for form sake, we will put him out of view; but I do attribute to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, certain intentions with respect to Ireland—it may be that I calumniate him. If so, nothing can be easier for him than to wipe out any stain upon his character which such an imputation may affix. I attribute to him the design of placing the lives and liberties of his Majesty's subjects at the disposal of a majority of five officers of the line, not one of whom may be more than three-and-twenty years of age. I attribute to him the design of placing the lives and liberties of his Majesty's subjects in the hands of the Lord Lieutenant and three such officers. There is no obligation upon the noble Lord to sit silent: he may in a moment fling from him the imputation, and cast it to the winds, I say, I understand that he intends to propose and support a measure in this House, which hesitate not to describe as the most appaling instance of cold, heartless despotism—of a tyrannous determination to crush the freedom of a people, really unoffending—that the history of mankind can furnish. America revolted for less cause; for still a Trial by jury was allowed to the Americans, but it is denied to the Irish; they may be convicted and condemned by three ensigns or lieutenants, as the case may be. Need I suggest to the House that the members of the military profession, above all others in the community, are open to the influence of apprehension and the hope of reward; by apprehension, of course, I do not mean mere physical cowardice, but an apprehension of the displeasure of their superiors, and the hope of promotion in their profession. These judges, as they are called, are emphatically not independent. They may lose their offices—I say they may. The right to dismiss a military officer is a
 887 888 889 890 A laugh 891 892 ipse dixit 893 894 895 896 897
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to address a few words to the House with reference to an attack which he understood had been made upon him in his absence, and be now was anxious to defend himself from the allegations which had been stated—namely, that he had attended a tithe meeting; he, on the contrary, had never attended a tithe meeting. The hon. member for Donegal (Colonel Conolly) had stated, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had attended a meeting at Leixlip, but the hon member had not stated that it was a parish Meeting; but he alleged that it had been sworn in information before himself, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had directed the people not to pay tithes, and that, of a sum of money which had then been collected, he (Mr. O'Connell) had himself taken 501. If such had been sworn before the hon. Member, he had been guilty of the greatest dereliction of duty in not having sent forward such informations, and also, by such neglect, also, of an act of great injustice
 916
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if it was sworn that he had been at Leixlip on that or any such occasion, he did not hesitate to say, that it was a gross perjury. He well remembered having attended an antiunion meeting at Leixlip, but as to the story of money being collected at that meeting, or at any at which he had been present, no greater falsehood had ever been stated, either on a man's word or on his oath.
 Mr. Stanley  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had so recently sat down, that it was inconvenient at present to enter into the details, or to canvass a measure not now before the House; but he supposed, from the tenor of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech, that having prepared himself for the present occasion, he felt it would be a great tax upon his patience to abstain from the argument until the question properly came before the House. He (Mr. Stanley) should not follow the example of the hon.
 917 918 919
 Mr. Stanley : The others, however, had been found guilty, but in that instance on the panel being called, thirty-seven persons were set aside, and 172 did not answer to their names. The third indictment was against a person of the name of Mulcahill, in which thirty individuals, summoned as jurors, were set aside by the Crown; yet before that number was set aside, and before the twelve sworn on the Jury could be found, no less than 244 names were called from the panel. He would now take another case which followed those to which he had adverted, premising that according to the system complained of, and which he did not deny—namely, that the first named on the panel (and who were usually the most respectable) did not generally answer to their names when called. And here he must state, that among those who had so been set aside by the Crown in the cases he had mentioned had been three gentlemen who, like the hon. Gentleman opposite, had attended meetings to oppose the payment of tithes, and had in other respects been active in resisting the system, but nevertheless had shown no reluctance to come into the jury-box to try parties charged with the very offence of which they had been guilty, or, in other words, to judge their own case. One person certainly appeared subsequently, but not in the jury-box, but at the bar, and pleaded guilty to an indictment charging him with the same offence of which he had been previously called to decide the guilt or innocence of other parties. Under such circumstances, it was the bounden duty of the officers of the Crown to exercise the prerogative with which the law had invested them. The Government, however, had again been taunted with having set aside Roman Catholics. In this respect he would refer to the case of the indictment of certain parties charged with the murder of the reverend Mr. Going, tried on the same occasion to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred. This
 920
 Mr. Stanley  did not complain that the parties were acquitted: the proof of their identity had failed, and how, he begged to inquire, had the evidence failed? Why, because the son-in-law of the murdered man sent word that his own life was in danger if he appeared to give evidence against the parties charged with the murder of his relative. Could it then be said that intimidation did not exist, or that justice could be administered, when it was found that one man, to give evidence, was carried to the court under the protection of a military escort, lest his life should be taken; while another lay confined to his bed from the effects of wounds inflicted in a murderous assault; and a third declaring the dread he felt that his own life would be sacrificed if he aided in the conviction of parties charged with the murder of his father-in-law, because, as he said, "I know that I am a dead man if I appear in court." Set the whole transactions at Clonmel, and the oppressions, as they had been termed, of his hon. and learned friend the Solicitor General for Ireland, before England, Ireland, and the world, and then let the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite tell the House that in Ireland the law can run a free, fair, and impartial course.
 An Hon. Member  declared that the south of Ireland was in a perfect state of peace, and that there had been no difficulty there in obtaining convictions, no intimidation of witnesses or Jurors. For what purpose were the oppressive measures proposed by his Majesty's Government intended? For the preservation of the system of tithes. Of this, however, he was convinced, that as long as the tithe system was continued, and as long as the tithes were levied in the present mode, so long would the Irish people be in a state of dissatisfaction. He had himself been a Catholic, he then became a Protestant, and afterwards a Presbyterian. But while he was a Protestant he never had had an opportunity of entering a church, he had never seen a clergyman, he had never been able to go to prayers. Why should tithe be paid by those who, as in his case, had derived no benefit from it? There never was a country so injured as that he came from. From the moment at which he heard of the measures which his Majesty's Government intended to introduce, he had not had a single night's rest. They pretended to call their measures measures of security and protection. He could call them nothing but measures of degradation and humiliation.
 An Hon. Member  professed to entertain the best feelings toward Ireland, and had even heard with great regret the attacks which had been levelled in succession at the Lord Lieutenant, the Judges, the Clergy, and the Police. Those attacks argued badly for the persons by whom they were made, as they showed that they suffered with difficulty any kind of Government. At the same time he was very ready to allow, that if his Majesty's Government had managed the powers already intrusted to them with discretion and vigour, no additional
 926
 Colonel Conolly , had understoood that, on the occasion to which he had referred, that a scaffold had been erected for the reception of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but that he himself was not in the country at the time. He had, however, seen the spot on which it stood; and he could add, that the unfortunate individual whom he had named (Herbert) had actually solicited the rector of the parish to impound his cattle for the tithe, because he (Colonel Conolly) had declared that he would not receive the rent until the tithe were paid.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that he had stated that a meeting, at which the hon. and learned Gentleman had attended, had been held at the house of a tenant of his (Colonel Conolly's) own—a man of the name of Herbert, and that there a collection had been made under the head of the O'Connell rent for that Gentleman; and that it had been sworn before him (Colonel Conolly), that the amount collected on that day amounted to 50 l
 Colonel Conolly  felt himself imperatively called upon, in consequence of the assertions which had been made in the course of the present discussion, to state, to the extent of his knowledge what the real condition of Ireland was, and also the opinion he entertained of the measures about to be adopted to remedy that condition. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had exerted his customary eloquence in the taunts which he had indulged in, whilst characterising the conduct of Ministers towards Ireland; but he must acknowledge, that he did not think the taunts of the hon. and learned Member were, in the present instance, merited. He had ever deprecated having resort to such strong and forcible measures, as the Bill against which the arguments he had been listening to were directed was intended to introduce into Ireland; but he must acknowledge that a dire and stern necessity called for the instant adoption of such severe measures in this case. He sincerely deplored the situation in which the country to which he belonged was placed; but he could not silently stand by, and hear it said, that Ireland was in a state of tranquillity. His testimony, therefore, with respect to the present condition of Ireland, was, that the measures which he understood from report to be in contemplation. were absolutely and imperiously called for; that order should be restored, and that peaceable and well-disposed persons in that country should be delivered from a force which was infinitely more tyrannical than any power which could be delegated by the House to the authorities in Ireland.
 901 l 902
 Mr. Baldwin  seconded the Motion, which he thought was practically directed to obtain an advantage for the people. He trusted that the Government would direct their attention to these matters, and use their utmost endeavours to reduce some of the taxes that pressed heavily on manufacturing industry, among the chief of which he mentioned the duty on glass.
 Lord John Russell  had not intended to address the House; but in consequence of the extraordinary and very violent attacks which had been made upon his Majesty's Ministers by the hon. member for Middlesex, he begged leave to say a few words. The hon. member for Middlesex talked of the change of opinion which had taken place on the Ministerial side of the House. He for one, on his own part, and he was sure that he might also answer for his hon. friends near him, was not conscious of
 928 929 "———climbed a stranded lighter's height, Shot to the black abyss, and plunged downright. The serious judgment all the crowd admire; Who, but to sink the deeper, rose the higher."
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had asserted that Juries in Ireland had been prevented from doing their duty, and witnesses from giving evidence; but in the course of his speech,
 923 * * 924
 Mr. Callaghan  felt it due to the constituency he had the honour to represent, to offer a few observations with reference to the measures of coercion proposed by the Government with regard to Ireland. He was in Ireland when the King's Speech, and the debate which ensued, had reached that country, and he must say, that every loyal man was astonished to find that his Majesty's Ministers had given such a description of Ireland as the facts did not warrant. It had been stated, that in Cork neither life nor property was secure; that the operation of the law had been defeated; that jurors could not be obtained, and that all justice was suspended. Nothing could be more incorrect than that picture of the district with which he was connected; and he must say, that the Ministers were not in possession of such facts as could warrant them in taking such a proceeding as it was rumoured was proposed. He could not but regret that clergymen should be now making false
 922
 Mr. Harvey  could not agree with the suggestion just thrown out for the adoption of the hon. member for Oldham, without at the same time taking the opportunity of saying, that during the six years he had sat in that House he had never heard a statement, and a motion in connection with it, so straightforward and practically useful as that submitted by the hon. member for Oldham. The hon. member had gone to the root of the evil, and in plain, unpretending language, advocated the interests of that class of the community which had heretofore scarcely found an advocate in that House. All civilized society depended on this great principle—that, however unequal the condition of parties might be, there should, at least, be equal law and justice for all. The hon. Member had proved that this was not the case. His Motion would work great good amongst the people. Unless Ministers were prepared to review the whole system of taxation, they must resort to the same measures of coercion in this country which they wished to apply to Ireland. When the hon. Member's resolutions should be read in every cottage, as he trusted they would. Ministers would find it impossible to stop the current of indignation which
 872
 Mr. Ronayne  could assure the House that the alarming picture drawn by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland of the state of that country was nothing different from its state during the last sixteen years. The right hon. Secretary had stated nothing that had not happened at every assizes in Ireland for the last sixteen years. He never yet was present at any assizes at which from 50 to 150 names were not called over before a Jury was empanelled. He was glad the right hon. Gentleman had introduced the subject of tithes. In Ireland there was a general
 921
 Mr. Edward Stewart  observed, that the Government had to-night been attacked with all the usual virulence from the other side, and with more than the usual unfairness. It was the general feeling amongst Englishmen not to strike a roan who could not strike again, yet his Majesty's Ministers were attacked when they were precluded from entering into a premature discussion. He had heard the powers asked for by Ministers condemned as an attack upon the liberties of Ireland. Ha hated oppression as much as any man, but he was prepared to maintain that liberty could exist only where the Jaw was paramount. Could it then be said, that liberty existed in Ireland, when armed parties were assembled at night by the ringing of bells, the lighting of fires, and other means, for the purpose of committing acts of lawless violence? If any one violated any of the laws they prescribed, it was at the risk of forfeiting his property or his life. This might be called anarchy, or disturbance, or insurrection, or rebellion; but, in his opinion, the most appropriate epithet that could be applied to it would be that of tyranny—the tyranny of the daring depredator and of the midnight assassin. He admitted that Ministers were bound to redress the grievances of Ireland, and the first that required redress was the want of law. He believed it was necessary to have recourse to strong and to extraordinary powers. He believed also that those powers should be full and ample; and, if it was requisite to suspend the Constitution for a time, the more decided manner in which it was done the better—provided the suspension was prolonged only so long as the disturbances continued.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  could not bring himself to assent to the temporary suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 898 Habeas Corpus 899 s s 900
 Mr. Robinson  thought it would be more easy to find objections in point of form to the Motion of the hon. member for Oldham, than to answer it in substance. He had called the attention of the House to this subject on several former occasions, and he was glad it was now again brought forward. He rose, from a sense of imperative duty, to inform the noble Lord, who was not blameable for this measure, that the species of answer given to the Motion would be anything but satisfactory to the country. In point of fact, these taxes pressed in the inverse ratio of the amount of property. The whole was founded on a most grievously unjust and impolitic system. He was surprised when he heard the noble Lord (whose acuteness he well knew) state that these taxes did not oppress the poor. He wished to suggest that, instead of having a Committee on the Stamp Acts, they should have a Committee upon the taxes generally. He asked the hon. Member for Oldham not to embarrass the proceedings of the House, by pressing his Motion to a division tonight. The reason for objecting to a Property-tax was quite evident, namely, that at present property was exempted, and those who owned it, would not, therefore, willingly consent to the impost.
 Mr. Warburton  called the attention of the hon. member for Oldham to the fact, that the House was only about to proceed  pro forma
 Mr. Hume  also recommended the hon. member for Oldham to pursue that course.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that when the Bill of last Session was in progress in the House, he had expressed his opinion that some such consequence would result from it. A number of surcharges had been made, and numerous complaints had been communicated to him, of which he had given information to the Treasury. The effect of the Bill was to tax many individuals who had not been taxed before. They were, in most instances, persons eminently entitled to relief; but it was impossible to relieve them as the Act stood.
 Mr. Hume  wished his Majesty's Ministers joy of their supporter whom they had just heard. He entered his protest against the doctrine of the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman, that the time chosen for this discussion was inconvenient and improper. This was the very time for such a discussion. When the House of Commons were called upon to vote away the public money, that was the time at which to consider whether those who were to have the management of the
 927
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  thought, from part of the speech of the hon. Member who spoke last, that he had been an Irish Member whom he had not known; he had, however, represented his Majesty's Ministers in that House as tongue-tied babies. He said, too, that that alone was constitutional liberty where the laws were paramount; and it was because liberty existed only where the laws were paramount that they, the Irish Members,
 925 s s d
 Mr. Fryer  presented a Petition from the town of Wolverhampton, praying for the Repeal of the Assessed Taxes, in the prayer of which Petition he entirely concurred. He was sorry, that in answer to the question put to him last week upon the subject, the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) signified his inability to state whether there would be any reduction of the taxes until the expiration of the present quarter. In his opinion, the noble Lord and his colleagues should have, in the first place, effected considerable retrenchment, and a large reduction of the public expenditure, before they met the present House of Commons. He thought that not only the Assessed Taxes, but the duties upon malt, upon hops, soap, cotton, and wool, should be at once repealed. He
 853 s d
 Mr. Sheil  was understood to intimate across the Table, that the parties were acquitted.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the gallant Officer who had stated with great distinctness that he supported the entire of the measures which were said to be in the contemplation of Ministers, had displayed a not unnatural predilection for that species of tribunal, which, it was rumoured, they were about to erect in Ireland, to supersede its ordinary judicature. The House would be competent to judge, from the emotions which the gallant officer had just displayed, how far he was likely to prove a calm, and dispassionate, and impartial Judge, if he were to be appointed one of the triumvirate of officers, who were to have the liberty or the exile of the people of Ireland in their possession. The descriptions of the gallant Officer were very vivid, but still there was in them a
 903 904 905 906 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 907 veto * * †Ibid p. 648 ‡Ibid p. 649 908 * Habeas Corpus * †Ibid. p. 123. 909 * * †Ibid. 138. 910 * * †Hansard (new series) vi. p. 141 911 * Hansard's Debates * 912 * Habeas Corpus * 913 * Habeas Corpus * 914 * * 915 Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Sheil  intimated that two of the parties had been acquitted.
 Mr. Sheil : A majority of the five will be sufficient to find an Irishman guilty.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that the Act of last Session had operated as a greater relief than had been stated; for the employment of the cart under the old law for anything but the conveyance of goods had sometimes occasioned the Horse Duty to be levied on the horse, and the Manservant Duty on the driver, making a charge of 11 l. l. s l s 1. s d
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he proposed to submit to the House—as that, he believed, was the proper time for so doing—certain Resolutions which he had prepared respecting the grievances of the people, more especially relating to the undue pressure of taxation upon them. He would not attempt to tell them of what their ancestors did to obtain a redress of grievances before they granted supplies—he would not enter upon that—it was antiquated, and it was out of the question just then; but it was his duty, aye, he said it was his duty not to suffer that House of Commons to grant any supplies until he had been permitted to state certain grievances under which the people of this
 855 Laughter and partial cheers 856 l l 857 l l l l 858 l l s s l l l l l s l l s 859 l l l l l l l l l l l s s l s l l s l d 860 l l l l l l l s l s d l d l s l s d l l s l l s l s d l s l l l l l 861 l l 862 d. d. s 863 d. s d s 864 l l 865 l l l l s l l l 1. s l l s l l s l s 866 s s l l l l l l l l s l l s l l l l l l l l s s l s s l l s s l s l l s d l l l 867 l l l l l l l d l s l s d l l s l l s l s d l l l l l l l l l l l l s l d 868 s d
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that he should be guided in his course by that which he thought most conducive to the good of the country, without much regard to the convenience of the House, and none to the consideration of what might be for or against his own character. That mode which seemed most likely to lead to a beneficial result he should adopt. He wished to make two or three remarks on what had fallen from the noble Lord.
 Mr. Cobbett  withdrew his Resolutions.
 Mr. Finn  observed, that he was astonished at the noble Lord who had opposed the Insurrection Act in 1824, because there was no evidence of its necessity; yet now, without a tittle of evidence whatever, the noble Lord was, it seems, prepared to approve, not only of the Insurrection Act, but of measures of still greater severity. He would, as a Catholic, frankly declare it as his opinion, that tithes had long constituted a serious nuisance in the long catalogue of Irish grievances, and that the conduct of those clergymen and magistrates who were in the receipt of them had (and who could wonder at it?) earned for themselves the execration of the people of that country. The gentry had been, for a series of years, in the constant habit of going about in the Irish towns and villages, insulting the religion to which the greater portion of the people belonged, and abusing the priesthood to which those people were naturally and fondly attached. The only matter for surprise was, that the people of Ireland had so long and so patiently endured the monstrous and intolerable burthen of the tithe system. They had been finally provoked to resistance, and now fault was found with them because they took the right hon. Secretary opposite at his word; and when he spoke of the "extinction of
 930 931
 The Speaker : That which the right hon. Gentleman, who spoke last but one, has stated upon the subject of order is perfectly correct, and completely in accordance with the rules and practice of this House; but the difficulty I have is in determining whether or not the principles he laid down are strictly applicable to the mode in which the hon. and learned member for Dublin has brought the intentions—or supposed intentions—of his Majesty's Government under consideration. It is, I must assume, a matter beyond all question, that nothing is more disorderly or inconvenient, than that details should be brought under the consideration of this House, of a measure presumed to have been introduced into the other House of Parliament. The rule of order is perfectly distinct and indisputable; but the great difficulty I have experienced, and which must always be felt, is in drawing the exact line between a general discussion with respect to the intentions, real or supposed, of the King's Government, and the discussion of the details of a measure which public notoriety had declared to have been under the consideration of the House of Lords. There cannot, and there never has been, the slightest doubt of the accuracy with which the right hon. Gentleman has stated the rule of order; and the effect of that statement will I trust, be to prevent the hon. and learned Gentleman
 883
 The Speaker : I had hoped that I succeeded in making myself understood. I took the liberty of saying, that nothing could be more inconsistent with order, or more inconvenient in practice, than the discussion of measures pending before the other House of Parliament; and I said this the rather, because, at the moment, the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, was, if not discussing, at least touching very closely upon subjects actually under the consideration of the House of Lords; since then he has gone much further, and entered into a discussion of the merits of an intended tribunal, and arguing with respect to the
 886
 The Speaker  intimated that the present was not the fit occasion, according to the forms of the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the cases alluded to by the hon. member for Oldham as cases of inequality in the Stamp-laws, and the duty on auctions, arose, in some measure from the Stamp-duties being divided into different classes; so that the proportion of one duty to another was not so accurately marked as it might have been. He admitted that when the property came to equal a large amount, the Stamp-duty was not so high as it would have been if the rate of increase from the lowest sums had been regularly continued. They were regular to a certain extent. The hon. Gentleman would find that, in every case of taxation, for instance, in the Assessed-taxes, when the amount became considerable, the per centage on which the taxes had been calculated
 869 870 Hon. Member
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day, for receiving the Report of the Committee of Supply.
 Lord Althorp  said, the case was this. The Bill of last Session took the half of the old tax off from carts which were used by their owners, for the mixed purpose of the conveyance of themselves and their families, and the conveyance of goods to and from market. Formerly, if a cart
 854
 Lord Althorp  was quite assured, that the House did not expect, that he would follow, in detail, the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had just sat down. He did not mean to do so; nor to discuss, for the present, any of the hon. and learned Member's arguments. But he could not help saying, that the hon. and learned Member had, in the most unusual manner possible, dragged in the discussion of the measures that Government contemplated towards Ireland. He would not follow the example of irregularity set by the hon. and learned Member, and would defer speaking upon the measure until it was brought before the House, when it would be seen whether the statements on each side were founded in fact or not. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, at some length, the great evils that would attend the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  rose, not to object to the Motion, but on the part of the Corporation of Newcastle, to entreat the House to suspend their opinion until an inquiry had taken place on the subject. He repeated what he stated the other evening, that the Corporation were ready to meet the fullest inquiry which could be instituted into their conduct. He would say a word on one or two of the points which had been touched upon by his hon. friend. It was true that the election of the Mayor and Aldermen was as his hon. friend had described it to be; but that was under an express provision of the charter. The debt of the Corporation, for which they paid interest, was 46,800 l l
 Colonel Torrens  was convinced of the impolicy of any measure which tended to destroy the necessary recreation of the labouring population.
 Mr. O' Connell  felt satisfied, that they could not increase piety by Act of Parliament; nor could they enforce the love of God by legislative enactments. There were statutes at present in existence which inflicted punishments on those who carried on their calling on a Sunday. The morning of a Sunday, by a man of religious feelings, might be devoted to his religious duties, but the afternoon of that day was required by the labouring classes for relaxation. The course that had hitherto been pursued, tended very much to drive men into public houses.
 Mr. Stanley  said it was impossible for him to enter into the discussion of a question of the merits of which neither he nor the House had ever heard until this petition was presented. As well as he understood from the hon. member for the Queen's County, this complaint related to some conduct of the police, in the course of proceedings for the recovery of tithes, and the hon. Member had, he was sure unintentionally, conveyed an insinuation that the Government sanctioned the police in exceeding the law. If such an impression existed in the hon. Gentleman's breast, he could assure him that no impression could be more utterly unfounded. He did not mean at all to complain of the hon. Gentleman, for he was sure he had not brought the matter forward in any spirit of unfairness, or with a view to create a wrong impression; but he was sure the hon. Gentleman would see, on reflection, that whenever he had occasion to complain of the conduct of the Magistrates, or of those responsible for the control of the police, it would be more convenient if he would previously inform those who were so responsible, in order that they might be able to make the necessary inquiries, and give such an explanation to him as might prevent the necessity of bringing the subject before the House; or subsequently give a full explanation to the House. With reference to this particular case he would only say, that if the hon. Gentleman would intrust him with the papers to which he referred, he would make the fullest inquiry into both cases, and would give the hon. Gentleman the fullest explanation; and would then leave it to his sense of propriety, having received the explanation, whether he would give it to the House, as he had given the statement. He was sure the hon. Gentleman did not see the mischief which might arise from bringing charges of this description, which could not be rebutted on the moment, and of which a refutation could scarcely be given without the previous warning of a specific motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, never was anything more true than what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary as to the injustice of acting upon  ex parte
 Mr. Stanley  really was not aware of having received any communication from the hon. Gentleman, and when it was said, that he was not taken unprepared, a great mistake was committed, for really he had never been taken more unaware. The hon. Member knew little of business when he imagined that on a general statement, unaccompanied by any name whatever of any of the parties, or of any place at which the subject matter of the complaints made were supposed to have occurred, an explanation could be instantly given. But to show how inconsiderately hon. Members sometimes complained, he might just mention, that a short time since a statement was made that the law was not fairly administered in Ireland, and the Government were called to account because a Grand Jury had ventured to ignore a bill sent before them by the hon. Member who made the complaint. As to the particular statement now referred to, he begged to say, that he had no recollection whatever of having received any communication from the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Ruthven  hoped, that whenever these
 955
 Mr. Grattan  said, it was the duty of Members to see that petitions sent by their constituents were duly laid before the House.
 Mr. Stanley  presented two Petitions from places in Ireland, praying for a revision of the Grand Jury System. The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to bring forward his Motion on the subject of the Irish Grand Juries. In introducing that subject to the consideration of the House, he should occupy but a small portion of their time, as he had already called their attention to it, and had printed his Bills, in order that he might obtain from all those who were acquainted with the subject the benefit of their observations. The present system of Grand Jury presentments pressed most heavily on the industry of the people; there had been more complaints on that subject than on any other—there was, perhaps, none on which all classes of men were so united as to the evils to which it subjected the country; and yet the greatest difference of opinion existed with respect to the remedy to be proposed. Since the last time when the question was agitated in that House, he had done his utmost to become acquainted with the opinions of men of all political classes, in order to obtain information on the subject, but with no view whatever to bind them or himself to any particular opinion. He should not go into any great details in the statement he was about to make, for Irish Members were well acquainted with these details, and to give them now to the English Members for the first time would be useless; but as English Members required to have some statement of the
 956 l 957 958 959 960 961 962 963
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to make only a few brief observations; and first he would remark, that in his opinion the right hon. Gentleman had understated the evils of the present system. It possessed all the deleterious ingredients that could belong to it, and encouraged jobbing by rendering it safe. It ought not to be forgotten, also, that it operated exclusively upon the occupiers of the soil, and was now admitted on all hands to be a cruel practical grievance. Some estates had been purchased, and many freed from encumbrances, merely by the owners sitting upon Grand Juries; and it at last became a point of honour not to vote against any gentleman's presentment. The main point on which he (Mr. O'Connell) differed from the right hon. Gentleman, was on the non-separation of the criminal and civil jurisdiction of Grand Juries. He saw no reason why the criminal jurisdiction of Grand Juries should continue at all; it appeared to him nothing but an absurdity, for a  prima facie 964 l
 Colonel Torrens  merely rose to offer the tribute of his humble approbation to the measure proposed by the right hon. Se-
 970
 An Hon. Member , whilst he admitted the necessity of improvement in the Grand Jury laws, could not go to the full extent with those who absolutely condemned the
 971
 Mr. Pryme  admitted that the proposed Bill would be an improvement upon a bad system; but, discussing a question of that kind, might they not consider whether the institution of Grand Juries—in relation to their criminal jurisdiction—were beneficial? In his opinion, their assistance was perfectly unnecessary in the administration of criminal justice; and it was with some satisfaction that he heard the hon. and learned member for the city of Dublin throw out the idea; which was immediately and earnestly opposed by the hon. member for the University of Dublin, simply upon the grounds of its being a "novelty;" as if every change was not, at first, of necessity a novelty. It was said that Grand Juries were a protection to the innocent, but there was another object to be obtained by the administration of criminal justice—the bringing the guilty to justice. He appealed to every one who knew anything of the operation of Grand Juries, whether bills of indictment, containing very strong proofs against the parties accused, had not been thrown out by these Juries? Their inquiries were conducted in private, by men who were not lawyers: the case was seldom, if ever, fully brought before them; witnesses were often unwilling to attend, and the Grand Jury had no power to compel them; and even if they did attend, they were not pressed to tell the truth, as they were before a Magistrate; and the consequence was, that in many instances, offenders who ought to be brought to trial were allowed to escape. He could mention instances within his own knowledge in which crimes had escaped punishment merely from the circumstance of the Grand Jury being unacquainted with the law. A recent instance of this kind was fresh in his memory. A bill was presented against a person for arson. It was proved that he was not actually present at the fire but that he was near enough to watch it. That, by law, was sufficient to render him, constructively, guilty of the crime. The Grand Jury, however, because he was ten
 972
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had given notice of a Motion for the abolition of Tithes in Ireland. Since he had given that notice, a plan of Church Reform for Ireland had been suggested by his Majesty's Ministers. That plan did not include any relief to the people of Ireland with respect to tithes at the present period; nor, in what bad been announced to the House, had it yet been explained what was to be done with regard to tithes, or how the surplus revenue arising from the Ecclesiastical Reforms was intended to be appropriated; but as the plan of his Majesty's Ministers had only been explained in part,
 974
 The Attorney General  said it was not his intention to oppose the bringing in of this Bill, which was connected with a subject of the utmost importance to the public at large, as well as to a class of individuals deserving attentive consideration, and whose interests it was especially connected with.
 985 986
 Mr. Lennard  begged to say, that he entirely concurred in the view which had been taken of this subject by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he only regretted that the matter had not fallen into such able hands at an earlier period, for no man could have read any part of the evidence taken before the Committee, of which he had the honour to be Chairman, without feeling that the present state of the law relative to patents, called for attention and alteration. With regard to the question of expense, it was deserving of consideration. It was suggested before the Committee, that if patents were rendered too easy of attainment, the great manufacturers would be considerably annoyed by having a vast variety of patents taken out for small, trifling, and unimportant inventions. The suggestion for shortening the process of obtaining a patent was most valuable; since nothing could be more inconvenient than the delay, the trouble, and the anxiety, consequent upon the present system. Indeed, the hon.
 987 988
 Mr. O'Connell : hoped his hon. and learned friend would shape his Bill so as to give all parts of the empire the benefit of it. Why should not a man in England have the benefit of a patent in Ireland by enrolling it here? And why should not an Irishman have the benefit of a patent in England, by a similar proceeding in Ireland? Why should it be necessary, to come here to get a sign-manual attached to a patent for Ireland? Why should not the signature of the Lord Lieutenant be sufficient for that, as well as for the other purposes in which it represented that of the Sovereign? In Scotland, the stamp for a patent was 6; in Ireland it was 25 l l l
 Colonel Conolly  said, he felt most happy in joining his meed of praise to that already bestowed upon the right hon. Secretary, and to which he (Colonel Conolly) thought him so justly entitled. The right hon. Gentleman had not only bestowed great labour upon the measure, but had, with great consideration, consulted men of all parties where practical knowledge enabled them to enlighten his mind upon a subject of such vast importance. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would pardon him for the few observations he was about to make; but he (Colonel Conolly) must be permitted to deny the truth of the general imputation cast upon the conduct of the Grand Jurors of Ireland. The House, probably, was not aware that a great portion of the charges levied by Grand Juries in Ireland were of a compulsory nature, and that they were obliged to make presentments, without having a right of scrutiny; and yet the Grand Jurors were obliged to bear all the odium of the burthens laid upon the county, as if it were optional with them whether or no they should be imposed. As an old Grand Juror himself, be thought it incumbent upon him to vindicate himself, as well as those with whom he had had the happiness to act, from the imputation which had that night been cast upon the Grand Jurors of Ireland generally. It had been his fate, upon one occasion, to free the county which he had the honour of representing from an overcharge of 1,600 l 968 969
 Lord Ashley  said, the deliberations of the Committee had been conducted with no view of abridging the recreations of the people. Their sole object had been to protect the conscientious observer of the Lord's Day.
 Lord Henniker  moved the Second Reading of a
 948
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that most scandalous and libellous matter was frequently put upon the records of Parliament, which, unlike any other Court, the House had no power of expunging. He hoped the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex would be taken into consideration. 991
 Mr. Harvey  observed that he could not allow this Bill to pass without making some remarks on several of its provisions. Mr. Whitbread had formerly called the attention of the House to the subject; and he was glad to see the hon. member for Weymouth (Mr. Buxton) in his place, who had done more than any man living for the emancipation of slaves. He hoped that he would continue his exertions, and would equally oppose a system which seemed to be growing up for making slaves of children, and others, who were dependent on parochial relief. The Bill proposed to give to the Guardians of the Poor of this institution the power of letting out the poor to hire to perform harvest-work, or any other species of labour. The wages of such labour was not to be appropriated to the benefit of the parties who performed it; but was to go to the general fund for the maintenance of the parish poor. He hoped that those hon. Members, who were favourable to the abolition of slavery, would pay some attention to this subject. There was another clause of the Bill which, in his opinion, was an infraction of the principles of justice. It proposed to enact, that any guardian who was found to have embezzled any property belonging to the institution, should be dismissed from his situation, and fined three times the amount of the property embezzled. Thus, in the case of the guardian, embezzle ment was made only the subject of a fine—a crime to be compromised by the payment of a sum of money. Now what was the case if a pauper were found to have committed a similar offence? Was he to be dismissed from the poor-house and mulcted? No. He was to be taken up and committed to the House of Correction at once. The superior was to be punished only civilly—the pauper was to be punished criminally. He made these remarks, in hopes that they might tend to direct attention to the matter, and to cause the points which he complained of to be corrected in the Committee.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  stated, that Brennan did apply to the Irish Government, but he got no redress. There was, therefore, no alternative but to come before the House. In the county of Kildare, which he represented, the system of Whitefeet had been introduced under the protection of the police themselves. That could be proved; at least, he knew that one of the individuals who had been known to be active among the Whitefeet was now in the police.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  wished also to add his approbation to the praise already offered to the right hon. Gentleman opposite for the great improvements which he intended to introduce, but he could not help feeling some regret, that the right hon. Gentleman had not confined himself to remedial measures. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for the University of Dublin, had objected to the measure as one of novelty; he confessed that, for his part, he could not regard the character of novelty which it bore as detracting in the slightest degree from its merits. There did not, and there could not, exist any sound reason why we should not improve the state of our law, even at the expense of introducing some novelty. He was sure there was little to complain of on the score of novelty in that Bill, when they had before them such a striking novelty as the presence of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself in a Reformed Parliament. As to the proposition itself of the right hon. Gentleman, it had for the most part his approbation.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that he had sent an account to the right hon. Secretary, who could not, therefore, be taken unprepared respecting Miller, and he had heard that since he had done so, the inquiry he wished to obtain had not been granted, and the constable had been praised by the authorities. He wished to know whether the right hon. Secretary had received the communication, and if so, why he had not been communicated with?
 Mr. Warburton  could not agree with the Report of the Committee of last Session on the subject. If that Report had merely declared that the labouring classes should not be called upon to work on the Sabbath, it would have met with his concurrence; but when it appeared that the object of the Committee was not only to put an end to all amusement, but to all that exercise so necessary to the smoke-dried population of large towns, he felt quite unable to concur in such an object. He thought that the Committee ought to be re-appointed, for the last Committee had taken evidence only on one side. Now evidence ought to be taken on both sides of the question; and he thought it would then appear that many of the statements made before the Committee of last year were wholly without foundation.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if it were only to convert Judge-made law into statute law, he should wish to see the proposed measure introduced. He was persuaded, however, that it would be advisable to refer the Bill to a Committee above stairs, when it would be rendered a very valuable measure.
 Mr. John Browne  also thought, that the measure was one fraught with great benefit, and he begged to return his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for proposing it.
 Mr. Plumptre  presented a Petition from Broadstairs, praying for an Act to compel the better observance of the Lord's Day.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that, in giving his notice of a Motion to place on the Standing Orders a distinct Resolution, condemnatory of the interference of the Treasury in the return of Members of that
 989
 Mr. Wilks  recommended the re-appointment of the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  recommended hon. Members to read the evidence of the Bishop of London upon the subject, which entirely concurred with the views he had taken, and did not sanction the measure about to be brought forward.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had been requested to present a petition complaining of great abuses in the Corporation of Newcastle-upon-Tyne; by which it appeared how much such abuses might affect not only persons living in the place in which they prevailed, but the community at large. The petition, which was signed by 1,500 persons, had been unanimously agreed to at a large meeting, at the Court of Guild. The number of inhabitants at Newcastle was 42,676; that of free burgesses 619; but of those burgesses, only nine or ten had any thing to do with the election of the Mayor and Aldermen of the town. The petitioners also complained of a misapplication of the revenue of the town. That revenue amounted to 34,000 l l l 950 l
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether election petitions were necessarily printed or not. It struck him to be a very useless expense to print a great number of those which were never followed up. Many personal attacks were made in these petitions, and no opportunity afforded to the person attacked to defend himself. As the Members of the House had full access to them, he thought it unnecessary to print them until it could be fully ascertained that they would be followed up.
 Mr. Oliphant  presented a Petition, signed, as he stated, by 3,800 inhabitants of Perth and its neighbourhood, for the abolition of Slavery. The petitioners begged that the emancipation might be immediate. There was no man more convinced that slavery ought to be abolished than he was, but he feared instant abolition might lead to consequences that
 949
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  expressed the satisfaction he felt at the explanation given by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland with respect to this Bill, which met with his cordial approbation.
 Mr. Lalor  rose to present a petition from an individual named Brennan, belonging to the poorer classes, in the Queen's County, complaining
 952 953
 Mr. Lalor  would, in future, act upon the hint given by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. When a complaint had been made in the case of Constable Miller, no redress had been given. These matters required more attention from the Government than he thought they had lately received.
 Mr. Godson  rose pursuant to notice to ask leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws respecting Letters-patent for inventions. He must claim the indulgence of the House for a short period, as the subject was one of the greatest importance
 975 976 977 978 979 980 981 London Gazette 982 983 984 l l scire facias
 Mr. Fitzgerald  thought, that the measure of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland would give great satisfaction in that country, and that all the persons whose interests were likely to be affected by the
 973
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he rose to add his meed to the approbation bestowed by the hon. and learned Member on the tone and temper displayed by the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, in introducing the present measure. He could not, however, avoid expressing his regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, should have permitted himself to cast such unmerited imputations upon the Grand Jurors and High Sheriffs in Ireland; but he (Mr. Lefroy) could not suffer that respectable class of persons to He under the imputations thus cast upon them, without assuring the House that they were undeserved. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that Grand Jurors in Ireland had made fortunes by jobbing: a general charge of that nature was easily made; but it did appear to him that it would be more becoming, if the hon. and learned Member, in place of casting a general imputation upon an honourable and highly respectable class of
 965 prima facie 966 967
 Mr. Cobbett : I merely rise to say that I believe the corruption of the Corporation of Newcastle to be as great as it possibly can be.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that a number of petitions had been presented on this subject, but he had not heard the prayers of any of them read.
 Mr. Cobbett  did not see anything in the prayer of the petition which the law had not already provided for. Perhaps the petitioners did not know that there was a law in existence which inflicted penalties on persons who carried on their ordinary calling on the Lord's Day. As to preventing profanation, he was sure that no law could be passed which would better effect the purpose than the laws now in being; and he was also sure that any further law on the subject would be productive of more mischief than good.
 Mr. Finn  meant to be extremely brief, and wondered that there could be any Gentlemen who were of opinion that Grand Juries were immaculate. He had heard some hon. Members say so that evening, and it was the first time he heard such an opinion given in any company. He gave the right hon. Secretary for Ireland great credit for his proposed measure, and he trusted that it would be gratefully received by all classes in Ireland.
 Mr. Gillon  thanked the hon. member
 951
 The Speaker  said, the observations of the hon. member for Middlesex were worthy of consideration. At present they were printed under an Order of the House, not so much for the purpose of publicity as of giving full notice to all parties interested. Perhaps the hon. Member had better take a day or two to consider the subject, as he might think proper to bring forward some substantive motion.
 Sir George Cayley  was of opinion that it was highly important, and very necessary, that the attention of the House should be directed to this subject, which involved very great and very peculiar interests. The best course would be, to allow the hon. and learned Gentleman to bring in his Bill; and, on the second reading, such suggestions could be made as would lead to the attainment of the object in view.
 Lord Althorp  complimented the hon. Gentleman on his candour. The objection which he (Lord Althorp) had to place on the Orders of the House, for the first time, a Resolution such as that proposed by the hon. Member was, that it
 990
 Lord Althorp  said, he thought it still more desirable to postpone the Motion which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had now brought forward. It was quite clear, that the statutes which applied exclusively to Ireland, and to which he had referred, might be repealed by the Bill. He, therefore, thought it most desirable that the whole enactment should be included in one Bill. When the hon. and learned Member saw the Bill he would be able to judge whether any other measure were necessary.
 Lord Althorp  agreed in the justness of many of the observations. Perhaps, if the petitions were not printed until the recognizances were entered into, the objection of the hon. Gentleman would be obviated.
 Lord Althorp  rose to order, and said, that as the hon. and gallant Member seemed to be travelling a little out of his way, he would find, perhaps, a more propitious time to make his objections to the parts of the measure that did not meet with his approbation.
 Lord Clements  said, that though he had to return thanks for the measure proposed, he could not refrain from denouning the Grand Jury system as it had hitherto existed. He represented one of the smallest counties in Ireland (Leitrim), and he could say, that the roads of it were impassable, except in those parts of it where the Grand Jurors resided. There they were kept in such a high state of repair, that the county was not able to pay the expenses of them. He was aware that the right hon. Secretary might have proposed a more effective measure, but as the Bill would be a decided improvement, he would give it his support.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped his Majesty's Ministers had received intelligence of the manner in which their projects of coercion had been received in Ireland, not only, he would say, by the agitating party, but also by that party which supported the administration of the Marquess of Anglesey. If they had not, he could assure them that he had received information which induced him to believe that that latter party had expressed even more indignation upon the subject than any other body of men in the kingdom. Indeed, no persons but the blind and duped agents of the Government in Ireland could fail to perceive that the end of those arbitrary measures was, to lay the foundation of civil war in Ireland, and to render her connexion with England a curse instead of a blessing.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  deprecated so much discussion about Ireland. He wished the attention of the House was only half as much occupied by a subject
 996
 Mr. O'Connell  considered this petition as a consolatory omen. He was glad to find Englishmen coming forward to afford protection to the people of Ireland against measures of unmerited severity. The want of that sympathy had been severely felt, and he, therefore, hailed its appearance with the highest delight and pleasure. He had heard, with surprise, the statements that had just been made by the hon.
 998
 Mr. Beaumont  was persuaded that, however powerful the influence of the hon. and learned member for Dublin might be among the Irish people, he would meet with but little success in his attempt to excite the people of England. They were a people less likely to be carried away by the dictates of feeling, and had good sense enough to examine into matters before they decided upon them. If the proposed measure were really an act of despotism, then, to say the worst of it, it would only be a substitution of the despotism of the Legislature, for the despotism of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, that he was as cordially attached to the real principles of liberty, and as much opposed to arbitrary measures, as the hon. and learned member for Dublin, or any other Member of that House could be. With respect to the measures of coercion, which were to be brought forward by his Majesty's Government, he considered them as absolutely necessary for saving Ireland from utter misery and destruction; and he should therefore give them every support in his power. He sincerely hoped that those measures would pass into a law; but unless they were vigorously, and to the fullest extent, acted upon in Ireland, it was his firm conviction, that there would be no security for life or property. He could assure the House that in the county which he had the honour to represent, they would give the greatest satisfaction, not only to the whole body of Protestants, but to every respectable Roman Catholic who valued the protection of life and property—and he would venture to extend this remark to the whole of Ireland. At the same time that he approved of the measures of coercion, and was determined to give them his support, he deeply regretted that they were to be accompanied by another—which he viewed with sentiments of the greatest alarm, that of Church
 1000
 Mr. Grattan  said, the question in dispute had not yet been answered, and it really was a very important one. A statement had gone abroad, of which Ministers were the best judges, and he called upon them to state whether—
 Mr. Grattan  wished to know whether it was the intention of Ministers to invest these Courts with the summary powers alluded to?
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  wished the House rather to adopt his plan of meeting at three o'clock, and devoting from that time till half-past five to the consideration of private business and petitions. His plan, according to the notice he had given, was this—" That this House do meet every day, except Saturday, at three o'clock in the afternoon, for private business, reception of persons bringing returns, bringing up reports of Committees, motions for papers (to which there is no opposition), swearing of Members, and other formal business; and for the ballot of election Committees, on such days as are appointed for taking election petitions into consideration, which will, as usual, take precedence of other business. After which, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, for
 1008
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that if Members would endeavour to compress their observations as much as possible, a great point would be gained towards facilitating
 1012
 Mr. O'Connell  could not thus permit the petitions of the people to be, as it were, thrown into a refuse corner—for that, in effect, would be the operation of the noble Lord's plan; it was, in fact, a way rather of getting rid of the petitions than of discussing them. Another objection to the proposed alteration arose, in his opinion, from this—that it was now proposed that twenty Members should constitute a House. In his opinion, forty were too few to form a quorum of a body so numerous as the House of Commons; and he was sure, there was no one, who took the trouble to reflect for a moment on the subject, who would not agree with him, that even 100 would not be too large a quorum, constituted as the House now was; for the time had passed away when the House was made up of the nominees of borough-owners, who only took care to be present at those divisions in which their nominors were interested. The people now had considerable influence in that House, and, accordingly, there had been since the assembling of the Reformed Parliament a very full and constant attendance; and he felt quite assured, that if 100 were made to constitute the quorum, it would be au alteration attended with no inconvenience, and calculated to produce very advantageous results. It had been said, that the habits of society had materially changed of late years, and that those habits greatly interfered with the change in question; he admitted, that there had been a very great change in the habits of society; but, on the other hand, he was prepared to assert, that that change did by no means require that they should run counter to everything like reason and common sense; indeed, it was his opinion, that the change in the habits of society
 1015 s s 1016
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  objected to the departure from the old-established custom, and proposed as an Amendment to the modified proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the number forty be restored, as in the printed proposition.
 Mr. Horvey  said, that, in consequence of information which had been given to him by an hon. Gentleman, he should withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice, for a "Return from the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Ecclesiastical Revenues, to ascertain the locality and description of each separate property charged with any fee-farm rent, pension, stipend, rent, and other payments reserved by leases (other than rack-rents), and redeemed land-tax; specifying the probable number of acres and annual value thereof, the tenure, the amount of the fixed payment of whatever description to which it is subject, whether the leases renewable, upon the survivor of life or years, and the customary terms of renewal." He should, however, give a fresh notice for the 8th of March, and he begged to state that, if not acceded to, he should, on that day, take the sense of the House upon the subject.
 Colonel Davies  concurred with the right hon. Baronet. He saw great objection to the House meeting at twelve. Many Members lived at such a distance that they could not be expected to come at that hour. He saw no objection to Mr. Bernal taking the Chair at three. Indeed as the most important votes were taken—namely, the votes on supplies—when he was Chairman, he could see no reason why he should not sit as Chairman on private business and petitions.
 Major Beauclerk  was satisfied that the English people would look upon the proposed measure with the greatest indignation and disgust. It would lead to increased taxation—to undeserved oppression—and he would, therefore, give to it every opposition in his power. He believed that Ministers had no intention of acting wrongfully by Ireland—that they had no evil feelings towards her; but he was sure they were ill-advised in their present proceedings. He could tell Ministers from long experience—for, for two years he had acted as Deputy-Adjutant-General—that one of the worst courts they could possibly devise was a Court-martial. Party prejudice could not but have considerable sway in courts so constituted. In his humble opinion, nothing could be worse. He had repeatedly seen young officers surrender their opinions and judgments to the Colonel, who frequently was greatly prejudiced. He had himself been under arrest for two days for merely giving a judgment to the best of his ability, and Captain Brook of the 62nd had been similarly treated for the same offence. He knew well he could have retaliated—that he could have broken the Colonel for his conduct; but being a kind and well-meaning officer, and having erred only in judgment, and not from intention, the matter was passed over. He only mentioned it to show that Courts-martial were, of all courts, the worst constituted for cases of this kind. For his own part, he would rather be tried by any court that could be thought of than by such a court. Not that such courts were desirous of doing injustice, but surely courts constituted of boys just come from school, or from college, could not be proper courts for the trial of serious offences in an irritated country. When Ministers were backed by such men as the hon. member for Cavan (Mr. Maxwell) and seemed disposed to side with an Orange faction, which had always done
 1002
 Colonel Perceval  said, that a most uncalled-for and unjustifiable attack had been made by an hon. and gallant Officer
 1003 No, no 1004
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  thought, that after meeting at twelve and adjourning at three o'clock, the Speaker should take the Chair at five o'clock without again counting the House. At the same time, it would rest with any hon. Member to move that the House be counted; for, he would never consent to abandon the right of any Member to count the House, and to insist upon an adjournment, when a sufficient number of Members was not present. He had listened with attention to what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Buckingham (Sir Thomas Freemantle), and he approved much less of the plan he proposed than of that of the noble Lord. He did not, however, think that it would be altogether fair to impose so great a tax upon the Speaker as this latter plan would impose. The interval of two hours from three to five, was not sufficient to afford him exercise and refreshment. Of course, before the Speaker could ride, it would be necessary for him to change his dress; and this would be necessary again on his return, and in that would be absorbed a very considerable portion of the two hours. At the same time, as the Speaker, in that fair and candid manner which he manifested on all occasions, had stated that he was prepared to sacrifice his own comfort to the public service, it would be improper for him to make any further objection. With respect to the proposal to receive petitions in a Committee of the whole House, he had to observe, that this was a custom in bygone times; and he saw no objection to its being revived. Formerly, a Grand Committee sat in the House every day; and if this were the case now, for the presentation of petitions, the attendance of the Speaker could be dispensed with. The great difficulty under which the House at present laboured had resulted, partly from the great increase of business, and partly from the great length
 1013 1014
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  had no objection to the proposal made by the noble Lord; but he thought that, as it was contrary to the rules of the House to make any such Motion without notice, it might be expedient to postpone the Motion.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  asked, if the noble Lord meant, that in a case of sudden emergency, a Member would not be allowed to make a Motion? He (Mr. Wyun) had known instances in which that privilege was of the utmost importance, and where the effect of the Motion would be lost if it could not be brought forward till after notice had been given.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, that he was of the opinion of the hon. Baronet. 1021
 Mr. Harvey  thought the greatest objection brought by the hon. and learned Member opposite to his Motion was, that 12,000 circular letters must be addressed. But he (Mr. Harvey) thought the Motion of such importance, that, let the trouble be what it might, he was determined to take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Harvey , having given notice of a Motion for to-morrow respecting the method of taking the Divisions, and for entering the names of all the Members who voted in the majorities and minorities on the division in the Vote Book,
 Mr. Ellice  said, he hoped he might be permitted to take the opportunity of replying to some imputations to which he would, by implication, be liable in consequence of the publication of a division on the subject of sinecures. He hoped, that as the subject referred to a breach of privilege, he should not be considered out of order. If he were not permitted to say two words upon the subject, he should be compelled to bring forward a Motion. He had seen with great disgust in some of the public prints a list of the majority of the Gentlemen who had voted the other night on the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. It had been represented that these Gentlemen had given their votes in favour of the continuance of sinecures in general. He (Mr. Ellice) voted upon that occasion; but he did not vote in favour of the continuance of sinecures of any description. He voted against a sort of abstract principle, which the hon. member for Middlesex had thought proper to propound to the House—a principle which the hon. Member did not seem to be able to explain; for he had stated that he did not include in his description of sinecures the case of Colonels of regiments.
 992
 Mr. Ellice : It is false that I voted with that view.
 Mr. Ellice  observed, that he had no intention of making any complaint respecting the language of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that as it was agreed on all hands that something should be done towards giving the petitions of the people that decorous and attentive recetion to which they were entitled, and which, owing to the mass of private and public business, they had not received for at least the last two Sessions, the question was, whether they should meet at twelve, as proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or at three, as proposed by the hon. Baronet, Sir Thomas Freemantle. He was in favour of the noble Lord's Motion. At an average, there were not more than six or seven divisions on private business each Session, and, therefore,
 1009
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that long speeches were sometimes not very beneficial; but he deprecated the idea that no allusions to Ireland should be mixed up with debate on other matters. The hon. member for Middlesex had said truly, that it was impossible to reduce our establishments while the grievances of Ireland remained unredressed. Besides, hon. Gentlemen should recollect that to the English the question was only one of taxation, while to the Irish it was a question of life and death. The Representatives of Ireland would not do their duty, unless they endeavoured by every means to defeat the measures in the contemplation of his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the objections which were made to the early meeting of the House in future for the purpose of receiving petitions, on the ground of not sufficiently considering those petitions, were not well founded, because it was well known that the petitions received full consideration when the subject of them came before the House in the form of a legislative enactment. It would, he thought, be desirable to separate the petitions from the general business of the House. He did not see why petitions might not be received in a grand Committee of the House. It would, he thought, be difficult to get forty Members to make a House at twelve in the day.
 Mr. Robinson  further observed, that they could not expect that the whole day should be devoted to the business of Parliament, seeing that the House was not made up solely of men of fortune and leisure.
 Mr. Goulburn  very much feared that the new arrangement would only aggravate the main source of the difficulty of presenting petitions—namely, the disposition, so much indulged in, of Members making long-winded harangues on almost every petition presented to the House. He apprehended that the inconveniences now complained of would not be remedied by the House sitting from twelve to three o'clock, and the noble Lord would have again to resort either to the ballot or to some other arrangement, to regulate the presentation of petitions. He thought it of great importance that the business of the House should be done in one continuous sitting, and that no Committees should be suffered to continue their proceedings after the Speaker took the Chair.
 Mr. Warburton  concurred in the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex, and he thought when the House met at twelve o'clock, it would be advisable to reduce the quorum from forty to twenty.
 Mr. Warburton  gave his Majesty's Ministers full credit for their good intentions; but he could not help thinking that the effect of their measures would be such as the petitioners apprehended. The hon. Baronet opposite said, that those measures were not intended to enforce the payment of tithes; but all the witnesses had told them, that there could be no peace in Ireland unless tithes, as far as their appropriation was concerned, were abrogated; and the House must recollect, that the measure of reconciliation proposed by his Majesty's Government did not, like the Duke of Wellington's Emancipation Bill, meet the whole subject of complaint, but went only partially to work. He thought that the complaints of the petitioners were perfectly just, and he hoped that they would be followed by similar complaints from the whole body of the electors of the kingdom. The measure was perfectly uncalled for. Ministers' own servants had told them that it would never quiet Ireland. If such were the ease, it was high time for the people of England to call on his Majesty's Government to make a final settlement of the question of tithes
 Mr. Warburton  suggested, that, in any case, when there was not a quorum at twelve o'clock, it should not prevent their doing business at five, should a sufficient number of Members attend at that hour.
 Mr. Buckingham  hoped that the House would excuse him, though a new Member, if he ventured to propose a plan which he thought would be found to combine the various suggestions which had been made by different Gentlemen. He should propose 1011
 Mr. Richards  regretted that Ministers had not brought forward measures founded upon a large, comprehensive, and statesmanlike view of the case, for which Parliament was called upon to legislate. He could not but consider that a vast deal too much importance was attached to the agitation of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. That learned individual would seek in vain to attach the people of Ire-land
 999
 Mr. Richards  observed, that it was totally impossible that the House of Commons, constituted as it at present was, chiefly of men engaged in the active pursuits of life, should be able to devote a larger portion of the day to the public business than it was proposed by the resolution before the House to do. Any change in the hours of doing business would deprive them of the presence and assistance of lawyers, merchants, and other men of business.
 Mr. Walter  said,
 994 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he considered it to be a personal imputation upon him to say, that he did not know his own meaning; and therefore he thought he had a right to answer the remarks.
 Mr. Hume  continued: His Motion was, that it was inexpedient to pay naval and military services by sinecures. The hon. Member might not have made up his mind about what was expedient or inexpedient; but the object of the Motion was, to put an end to the practice of paying money upon false pretences. The hon. Member had stated, that he had not explained, and did not, in fact, understand the abstract principle which he had sought to embody in his Motion, because he had excepted the case of Colonels of regiments. He knew very well what he was saying. The Colonelcies of regiments were no sinecures. Colonels of regiments had to carry on correspondence, to look to the accoutrements of the men, and other duties, which placed them in a very different situation from that of such officers as the Governor of Berwick. The hon. Member seemed himself not to know what he was talking about, when he accused him of ignorance. He knew very well what he had been speaking of. He knew that the discussion was irregular, because there was no Motion before the House; but he must still continue of the opinion, that every man who voted in the majority upon that occasion, had so voted in order to uphold sinecure offices.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he was perfectly aware of the irregularity of permitting Members to speak when there was no Motion before the House: but he hoped that he should be permitted to reply to the observations of the hon. Member, who had stated that it was false that any Member who had voted against his Motion, had so voted with a view to uphold sinecures.
 Mr. Hume  entirely concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He could corroborate the hon. Member's assertion, that a very strong feeling of disappointment pervaded the community, in consequence of no attempt having been made by Government to effect a reduction in the taxation of the country. How, indeed, could any reduction be effected if hon. Members were determined to support measures for carrying civil war into Ireland, and for the consequent maintenance of a large military force in that country? Was coercion the preliminary step to a repeal of taxes? And these measures, it seemed, were to be hurried forward without any evidence being adduced as to their necessity. He (Mr. Hume) could only say, that if they were carried through the House, it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to effect any essential reduction of taxation.
 Mr. Hume  feared that no plan could be proposed which would not be open to some objections; and though the arrangement proposed by the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was certainly objectionable in more than one particular, yet he was anxious to give it a trial. Hon. Members seemed to consider that they would find great difficulty in knowing how to dispose of themselves from three to
 1010
 Mr. Sheil  rose to put the House right. Let him not be blamed. The moment he found there was a misconception upon the subject, he had advised the Speaker of it. The Petition had been sent to him at the close of last Session, If, in adverting to measures then in contemplation, the petitioners had thus expessed themselves, what would their feelings be on hearing of the extraordinary measures which were now contemplated by his Majesty's Minsters?
 Mr. Sheil  presented a Petition from Maidstone, in Kent, praying that Martial-law might not be adopted in Ireland to enforce the payment of Tithes. The honourable Gentleman observed, that he would not then enter into the general subject, but would call the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to the wisdom of omitting such parts of the Acts embodied in their coercive measures, as related to the punishment of whipping; or, perhaps, the scenes, which the lapse of above thirty years had not effaced from the memory of Irishmen, might be renewed. He would also take the opportunity of making a single observation on the recent statement of the noble Lord, with respect to the amount of Church
 997 l l
 Mr. Robert Palmer  observed, that he would always be an advocate for the repeal of such of the Assessed-taxes as pressed most heavily on the people, but he did not see clearly that the repeal of the whole of these imposts would be so beneficial to the community at large, as the repeal of a portion of them. There were other taxes, in his opinion, which might be lessened with greater advantage to the necessities of the people. The House of Commons, besides, was not called upon to legislate merely for the benefit of particular classes—its functions were of a more extended nature, and it was bound to look, in the framing of any measure, to what would most conduce to the general interests of the community. He must say, however, that in his opinion the repeal of that portion of the Assessed-taxes more particularly alluded to in the petition just presented, would be a measure generally beneficial; and he should be happy to
 995
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was impossible for the Commissioners to supply the information required at present, for they had not directed their inquiries to that part of the matter. It would, indeed, take a great deal of time, a great deal of trouble, and a vast deal of expense, to give the returns required by the hon. Member; for not only would the Commissioners have to issue upwards of 12,000 circulars, but they would have to commence all their proceedings  de novo
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  expressed his opinion, that the hon. member for Westminster and the hon. member for Dublin were each partially correct; the one in asserting that the measures of Government were intended to compel the payment of tithes, and the other in denying that assertion; but his (Mr. Attwood's) belief was, that a tremendous measure, was behind. English blood would flow in torrents for the purpose of compelling the people of Ireland to pay tithes. If the House of Commons should agree to the measure which the Government proposed, he feared that the same measure must speedily be directed against the heart of England. He felt it to be his duty, at this early hour, to sound the note of alarm upon English ears. It was now proposed to send the English militia to Ireland, but the time would come when the Irish militia would be brought over here to bayonet the people. This would happen, when the people, goaded to madness, as he feared they soon would be by the neglect of that House, should adopt legal and constitutional measures for their own protection. The people of England might depend upon it, that the measures now proposed to be directed against Ireland would be applied to themselves. Let English gentlemen lay this consideration closely to their souls—that, in supporting the measures proposed by Government, they would be forging chains for themselves.
 Mr. Cobbett  thought that the great object of the propositions was a tendency, a premeditated tendency, to abridge the right of petition. It was admitted by all that they could not go on as at present—Parliament was giving way, the Church was giving way, the forms of that House
 1018
 Mr. Ewart  corroborated the opinion of the hon. member for Dublin, that the public business of legislation was at present carried on at too late an hour, and too much under the inspiration of good dinners, and their accompaniments, to be productive of that benefit to the nation which, from its importance, it ought to be.
 The Speaker  said, he did not mean to say that the hon. member for Middlesex was disorderly in his observations.
 The Speaker  said, that if this discussion
 993
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that it was a mistake on the part of the petitioners to suppose that the measures proposed to be adopted with regard to Ireland, were intended to enforce the payment of tithes. With respect to the punishment of whipping, he did not understand that it was one of those in contemplation; but if it were, it should be remembered that the hon. and learned Gentleman who pressed its discontinuance, did not want any punishment at all to be inflicted on the disturbers of the peace of Ireland. The House ought not to discuss the measure while in ignorance of its provisions.
 Sir Robert Harry Inglis  thought the plan impracticable. In the course of the next month there would be a daily claim upon the time of no less than 300 Members, for the purpose of considering election petitions, and in Committees on public and private Bills; and how, he should like to know, could the Members who were thus occupied, find opportunities of attending in the House between one and three o'clock for the purpose either of presenting petitions, or of opposing them, when they were imperatively called upon to attend in their respective Committees, under the penalty of a fine for omitting to do so?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the abandonment of the plan on Ballot-days made a material alteration in the proposition of the noble Lord, and certainly avoided one great difficulty that must have arisen from its adoption. The noble Lord proposed that if a House were not made at one o'clock the Speaker was to adjourn until five;
 1006 Althorp 1007
 Sir Robert Peel  wished the noble Lord would state, for the information of the House, what he meant to do with respect to election petitions? As the law of election now stood, the first proceeding of the House on the days fixed for balloting for Election Committees was that ballot itself. If the same rule was to be applicable under the proposed new arrangement, Election Committees must be chosen at one o'clock, and if 100 Members were not present then, the House must adjourn, and that day would be lost for all the purposes of public business. He put it to the noble Lord whether he could expect the attendance of 100 Members at twelve o'clock? But if sufficient Members did assemble by one o'clock to go to a ballot, the whole of the time would be consumed between one and three o'clock, and no opportunity would be afforded of presenting petitions.
 Lord Althorp  did not mean the plan to apply to days on which Election Committees were to be selected. Those days must necessarily be exceptions.
 Lord Althorp  said, he would read the Motion as originally proposed, which was, "That this House do meet every day, except Saturday, at twelve o'clock at noon, for private business and petitions, and do continue to sit until three o'clock, unless the business be sooner disposed of. That when such business has been disposed of, if before three o'clock, or at three o'clock precisely, notwithstanding there may be business under discussion, Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House till a quarter before five o'clock, and leave the Chair without putting any question for adjournment. That business thus interrupted be taken up again on the next sitting day, as an adjourned debate, in preference to other business of the same kind. That if a House be not formed before one o'clock for the sitting between twelve and three o'clock, Mr. Speaker do then take the Chair, and count the House; and if forty Members be not present, do adjourn the House till a quarter before five o'clock; and in like manner, when the House is to meet at a quarter before five, pursuant to adjournment, if the House be not formed before five o'clock, the Speaker do then take the Chair, and count the House, and if forty Members be not present, do adjourn the House till twelve o'clock the next day, unless such day be Saturday, in which case Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House to Monday at twelve o'clock. That when a House is formed at five o'clock, pursuant to adjournment, the House will immediately proceed to the business of the day set down in the Order Book. That Committees have power to sit from ten o'clock in the forenoon until five o'clock in the afternoon, and have leave to sit during the sitting of the House. That a Select Committee be appointed at the commencement of each Session, to which shall be referred all petitions presented to the House, with the exception of such as complain of undue returns, or relate to
 1005 in extenso
 Lord Althorp  said, there was nothing more inconvenient than for him to be called upon to discuss the details of a measure which he should hereafter have to introduce to the House. He would, however, state, that there was no authority to be given to these Courts martial, which was not already exercised by the Civil Power of the country. Respecting the point—whether the whole power of the Civil tribunals was to be invested in them, he should only state, that that was a question which could be best decided when the Bill came before them.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that some misapprehension existed as to the mode in which a House would be in future made
 1017
 Lord Althorp  repelled the imputation that it was intended by the proposed arrangement to defeat the right of petition; on the contrary, it had for its object the giving a more ample time for the consideration of such petitions. As to the classifying of petitions, so far from intending to conceal the grievances of the people, it was to place them more prominently before the House. They were much more likely by that method to receive the attention which, he admitted, they deserved, than by the present method, because at present the petitions were, from want of classification, very often disregarded, owing to the irregular manner in which they came before the House. The hon. Member also
 1019 1020
 Lord Althorp  said, he had altered his Resolution, and made the time a quarter past five o'clock, which, in the proposition, as printed, stood for five o'clock; and he proposed that the number of Members required to be present should consist of twenty, instead of forty.
 Lord Althorp  said, that some difficulty had been felt, occasionally, to determine which party should go into the lobby during a division. The general rule was, that the minority should go out; but it was occasionally difficult to ascertain which was the minority. He (Lord Althorp) proposed, that whichever party was declared by the Speaker to be in the minority, or which should call for a division, should go into the lobby.
 Lord Althorp  said, it had stood in the proposition originally, as the hon. Baronet now suggested, but the objects to be gained by the change he had introduced were of great importance for the despatch of business; and if it were resisted, he should feel it his duty to divide the House upon it.
 Lord Althorp  did not for a moment conceive that Members should give up the right of making Motions without notice, in an emergency. The notice of Motion was merely a matter of courtesy, and it should always be left to Members to consider whether it was important to bring forward a Motion without observing the usual courtesy.
 Lord Althorp  had no wish to press the Motion on the House at present, if it was thought desirable to postpone it.
 Lord Althorp  also moved, that, in future, all Orders of the Day fixed for Mondays or Fridays, should be taken into consideration before any other motions in the Order-book.
 Lord Mahon  rose to Order. The nature of the Petition seemed to have been altogether mistaken; it did not relate to a measure now in preparation, but to an act of the last Session.
 Lord Morpeth  expressed a hope that the proposed arrangement of his noble friend would have the effect of keeping apart from each other, the discussion of subjects that were not naturally connected, and that they would not have upon petitions a series of observations upon matters totally distinct. He hoped the House would agree to the Motion then before them, and give the plan of his noble friend a fair trial.
 Lord Sandon  was of opinion, that it would be more convenient for the House to meet at a quarter to one o'clock, instead of twelve o'clock. He was willing to give his assent to the plan proposed as an experimental measure.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, the Reform Bill had not produced at Liverpool the effect which had been anticipated from it. He would venture to say, however, that no corrupt influence had been used either by the noble Lord or by any of his supporters during his last election.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that no such practices had taken place, to the best of his belief.
 Mr. Attwood  presented a petition from the Warden and Members of the Company of Merchant Tailors, praying the House to rescind the petition of Hugh R. Franks, presented the other evening, as the petition contained gross libels on the said company; and that the House would devise some means of preventing the abuse of the right of petitioning, and thereby restrain an individual from injuring the character of honourable and respectable persons. The right of petitioning was one of very great value, and for that, amongst other reasons, should its exercise be confined to the statement of real grievances. In this
 1031 1032
 Mr. Hill  said, that as he was the Member who had presented the petition which the hon. Member had so loudly complained of, he trusted the House would allow him to say a few words on the subject. When the hon. Member thought fit to insinuate that he (Mr. Hill) had wilfully kept the nature of the petition from the knowledge of the House, and that the petition had been presented in the hon. Member's absence, he might have had the candour to inform the House, that he (Mr. Hill) had sent the hon. Gentleman a copy of the petition—that he had informed the hon. Gentleman when he intended to present it—that he was prepared to present it on Friday, his name having stood at the head of the paper of that day, but that, at the request of the hon. Member, he had postponed the presentation to Monday, in order to give the hon. Gentleman an opportunity of being
 1033 l. l. l. l. 1034 mandamus 1035
 Mr. Attwood  declared, that he had been grossly misrepresented when he had been
 1036
 Mr. Hill  denied, that he was at the time the feed counsel of the party. If he had been so, he would not have presented the petition.
 Mr. Attwood  continued. He had Understood that the hon. and learned Gentleman conducted the suit of the petitioner in the Court of King's Bench. He hoped the House would not countenance professional men in the practice of bringing their unsuccessful clients into that House to try their cause again. The Courts of Law, he would contend, and not that House, had the power of deciding who had the proper exercise of jurisdiction in particular Corporations—[ hear, hear l. 1037 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Attwood  said, that in the remarks which he had felt it his duty to make, he meant to cast no personal imputation on the conduct of the hon. and learned Member. He avoided any such observations—be avoided entering into details—he—
 Mr. Attwood  expressed his readiness to submit the affairs of the Company to any investigation that might be deemed necessary. The Company had nothing to conceal, and they were perfectly ready to meet any charge that might be brought against them.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it appeared to him that it ought to be referred to the law officers of the Crown to decide whether the company in question came under the description of a Municipal Corporation. If it were a trading company, it was quite clear that the Committee could have no thing to do with it; but if, as was suggested, the company could, by creating Livery men, influence the election of Mayor, Aldermen, and Sheriffs, it would acquire the character of a Municipal Corporation, and therefore be properly a subject for the consideration of the Committee.
 Mr. Baring  observed, that if the Corporations' Committee was to be allowed to inquire into the affairs of private companies a monstrous tribunal would be established, which it was most important for the people of this country to resist at the commencement. If he were connected with a public company he would refuse to answer the first question which might be asked relative to the disposal of the property of the Corporation. It was necessary to make a distinction between public and private corporations at the present moment when there were some grounds for apprehending that the inquisitorial powers exercised by Committees of that House might become a cause of grievance. He therefore approved of the distinction which had been drawn by the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer. The petition in the present case did not complain of the abuse of any Municipal powers on the part of the company, if they possessed any, but only of the misapplication of funds. That was the  gravamen 1045
 Mr. Attwood  denied that because a man was a liveryman he had the right of voting. The truth was, that being a liveryman conferred no such right.
 An Hon. Member  expressed his surprise at the observations which had just fallen from the hon. and learned Member. If that hon. and learned Member thought that the Members of that Committee would enter upon their duties after having made up their minds on the subject they were appointed to investigate, and would not allow their opinions to be changed by the evidence that would be laid before them, he was mistaken in his supposition. They would not discharge their duty if they were to allow their previous opinions to bind them. He, as a Member of that Commmittee, certainly should not do so, and he did not know what right the hon. and learned Gentleman had to entertain such a supposition. As for himself, he declared that his sole object in sitting upon that Committee, would be to examine the system of Corporations, and see how it worked; and to agree to a Report only upon the evidence that might be laid before him.
 Mr. Lennard  also approved of the principle of the Motion. He begged to take advantage of that occasion to suggest to the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests the expediency of throwing open the grounds of the Regent's Park, which had been so long closed, to the public. Contrary to the explicit understanding of the Government and the public on their being first laid out they had been kept closed under various pretences, of which the most feasible—the necessity of protecting the young trees—was no longer valid. He hoped the public would be no longer deprived of their right out of a mere consideration for the whims of the occupants of villas in the neighbourhood.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that he did not rise to offer any opposition whatever to the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex; on the contrary, he was extremely glad that the hon. Member had brought the subject forward. It would be for the House to determine, after the papers were laid on the Table, in what manner it would deal with the question. He could not, however, see that the House could deal with it in the manner suggested by the hon. Member, for he could not think that it was feasible to deal with rights which had been granted to individuals by the Crown in the manner proposed. At the same time he was convinced that similar rights ought never to be conceded in future; and it was most desirable, he admitted, that whatever pressed upon the shipping interests for the benefit of individuals ought to be removed as soon as
 1073
 Captain Dundas  said, the hon. Member was much mistaken in his opinion, for he held a letter from an owner of vessels in the merchant service, which highly approved of the project, as being of great importance to the merchant service, and the security of property navigating those parts of the Channel. Indeed, he would leave the question to the hon. Member's father, who was a nautical man of great experience; and who, he was certain, would decide against his son, and say that that light, if erected, must be of great service to mercantile shipping in the Channel.
 Captain Berkeley  opposed the Motion. He had never given any pledge, and he never would give one. If his constituents could not trust him, the sooner the connection between them was cut the better.
 Mr. Robert Steurt  said, that he was not in the last Parliament, but he understood from an hon. Member who was, that, on one occasion, thirteen divisions had taken place, when only forty-two Members were present. Now, if those divisions had been recorded, according to the hon. member for Middlesex's calculation, they would have consumed six hours. On the occasion already referred to he had voted in the majority, and he was so little ashamed of what he had done, that before the list of majority was published, he had written to some of his constituents to tell them how he had voted. He must, however, protest against the noble Lord's (Stormont) doctrine, that Members were not responsible to their constituents—that was, perhaps, the doctrine in the old Parliament, but it would not do in a Reformed Parliament.
 An Hon. Member  observed, that he could not concur with the proposition of the hon. member for Colchester, but he was willing to concur in any measure for giving an accurate report of the divisions in the House which might be practicable.
 Colonel Davies  said, that if any practicable means could be pointed out of taking the division accurately, he should acquiesce in the propriety of adopting it; but he thought the Motion of the hon. Member would make the task of drawing up these lists more difficult than it was at present. He would remind the House of what took place a few nights ago, in taking the list of the minority of 138 for the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. He was one of about one dozen persons who were running about asking each Gentleman his name, and after all, though the division occupied forty or fifty minutes, he believed that no less than twenty names were inaccurately taken. He should rather endeavour to shorten than lengthen the divisions of the House, as being a great loss of public time. Admitting that the lists could be made out accurately, still he could not acquiesce in the Motion of the hon. Member, for the loss of time would be a serious evil; but if it could be easily and accurately done, then his objections would be removed.
 Mr. Baldwin  seconded the Motion, and acquiesced in most of the doctrines laid down by the hon. Member. He thought, however, that the health of the working people would be more effectually preserved by attention to the cleanliness and ventilation of their houses, and by the widening of the narrow lanes and the lighting of the passages in large towns. In his progress through England, Scotland, and Ireland, he had observed a great want of attention to these particular points, which, from experience, he could say were most essential, not only to the comfort but to the health and existence of the poor. He did not undervalue the advantages of public walks, or other means of necessary recreation; but cleanliness and the ventilation of houses, which were too much neglected in large towns, were more essential than public walks.
 Mr. Lamb  agreed with the hon. Member, that the subject of the health of the lower orders was of much importance to the Legislature, but he doubted whether much more might not be done to promote the object of the hon. Member by Magistrates of towns than by Parliament. He did not see how the Legislature could effect the object which the hon. Member had in view; at the same time he regretted to say that too little attention had been paid to this subject at the passing of several of the Enclosure Bills. The erec-
 1057
 Colonel Butler  presented petitions from the parish of Ballyragget and another parish in the county of Kilkenny, praying for a general redress of grievances, complaining of the abuses of the grand jury system, and praying for a reduction of Tithes and Church-rates, and for the restoration of a domestic Legislature. The gallant Colonel said, he was happy to find, from what had occurred the other evening, that the gross abuses of the Grand Jury system in Ireland were at length about being remedied, but he was sorry, at the same time, that his
 1026
 Colonel Perceval  said, that being attached to the ancient institutions of his country he could not help declaring that there was a most unjust proportion of Irish Members (who were devoted to innovation, which they called improvement, but which he termed destruction) on the Committee. It was not originally intended, as he had been informed, to include the Irish Corporations; but it was, at all events, not quite in character with the noble Lord's known fairness to name seven of one party and only one on the other. He felt, however, that he stood on delicate ground. That was the second Parliament of which he had been a Member, and without wishing to convey personal offence to any hon. Member, he must say that he feared the present Committee would be conducted in the same manner as the Committee of the last Parliament on the state of Ireland. He had been a Member of that Committee, and, therefore could testify the unfair spirit in which the business was carried on. While the rev. Mr. Bourke, from Castle Pollard, and other Roman Catholic priests, were brought forward as witnesses, a single Protestant clergyman was not examined.
 Colonel Perceval  would bow to the decision of the Chair, but he thought the interruption of the hon. member for Marylebone would have applied to others with as much justice as it did to him.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the arbitrary power lately assumed by Magistrates in closing foot-paths had engendered much discontent among the poorer classes, who were thereby shut out from all means of wholesome recreation. It should be a Standing Order of the House, that no Enclosure Act should receive its sanction till such rights of the poor as might be involved should be minutely inquired into. There were more notices of motions for Enclosure Bills since the commencement of the present Session, than had ever been given, he believed, in an equal length of time, but he had no reason to think, that any of them contained a specific provision to prevent the shutting up of foot-paths. Hitherto all laws had been made by the rich—in favour of the rich, and at the expense of the poor, and while that was the practice, or supposed to be the practice, the laws were not likely to be either loved or respected.
 Mr. Harvey  agreed that the Committee could have nothing to do with a subject like
 1040 l. l. l. 1041 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  was glad that the noble Lord (Stormont) had at length been brought to speak with some deference of
 1088 1089
 Mr. Harvey  said, that it always gave him great satisfaction when it was his lot to bring Motions before the House which so strongly recommended themselves to every man's approbation, by their intrinsic merits and absolute necessity, that he felt it superfluous to speak at any length in their behalf. The notion that the votes which Members gave on any occasion should be concealed, was now so entirely exploded, that he doubted whether any hon. Member could be found who would support such a doctrine. He believed, that every person now acknowledged that responsibility, and not secresy and concealment, was the basis of the trust reposed in the hands of Representatives by their constituents; and that the due discharge of their duties mainly depended upon the fact, that the constituents were informed of what took
 1080 1081 1082
 Mr. Portman  said, that, in his opinion, the stopping up of foot-paths was one of the greatest causes of the want of sufficient opportunities of air and exercise for the humbler classes, and he hoped the House would not allow any opportunity to pass of doing all that legislation could do to prevent any further extension of that evil. He intended very soon to bring in a Bill, to which a clause might, with perfect propriety, be added, which would render the stopping up of foot-paths extremely difficult. Directing his observations more particularly to the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests Department, he expressed a hope that the time was not distant when the whole of the Regent's Park would be open to the public. As to the project which had that evening been brought before them by his hon.
 1059
 Mr. Portman  rose to order. The question before the House had nothing whatever to do with the Committee of last year.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  feared, that no Legislative enactment could be made to apply to any such evil, or produce any such remedy as that in the contemplation of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member who had brought forward the measure had spoken of the beauty of the capital and its magnificent river; he could also speak of the beauties of Dublin and its river. There was this sad difference, however, between them. In the environs of the one were seen boards with the words, "Beware of spring guns and steel traps;" in the other, were muskets and bayonets without any caution to beware.
 Mr. Shaw  took that opportunity of protesting against the composition of the Committee, which he thought had not been formed with that fairness that usually distinguished the noble Lord. He had no complaint to make against any Member individually, but he could not but observe that of the Irish Members of that Committee, six out of seven had made up their minds against what had usually been considered as Corporation rights. There were seven Irish Members of the Committee, and six of them, it was well known, had openly professed strong opinions against all privileged bodies, and all corporate rights. There was only one of the seven, and that was himself, who, though not a supporter of corporate abuses, had a regard for corporate and vested rights, and for himself he should only say that he hoped he should find it consistent with his duty to absent himself altogether.
 Mr. Faithful  cordially approved of the Committee. In general the small and old towns enjoyed walks of this description, and he hoped that all the large and modern would not be left without these conveniences.
 Mr. Robinson  seconded the Motion. It would be right, he thought, to frame the return so as to ascertain the unexpired terms of existing leases to private individuals. He thought the granting of leases of lighthouses was a most objectionable mode of remunerating those who had, or were thought to have, claims upon the Crown. Foreign nations were induced by our practice to impose a duty upon English shipping; for, as England, for instance, made French vessels pay for the lights upon the English coasts, France naturally retaliated by making English ships pay a lighthouse duty on entering a French port. He believed that, under all governments, the lighthouse system had been made one of gross jobbing, and that great corruption existed with respect to the charges. He trusted that Ministers would now take all these abuses into consideration, and that they would afford the public all the relief possible. He hoped that no more leases of lighthouses would ever be renewed.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he recollected that when the Prince Leopold had left this country, a great boast had been made of his merit, in relinquishing his annuity, and the public had a right to expect to derive some benefit from a relinquishment thus boasted of; but it now turned out that as yet no benefit whatever had been derived by the people of England. The public could not conceive, that with such an excessively liberal income, the prince could have got so deeply involved in debt, that in a year and a half his encumbrances and arrears had not been paid off. He wished to know, whether, even now, the king of the Belgians did not continue to derive some of his income from this country? He would maintain that the grant of the annuity was dissolved immediately the prince accepted the Belgian throne, and became an alien to England, with opposite interests and connexions.
 Mr. G. F. Young  strongly objected to any unnecessary charge upon the British shipping interest, which felt the present tax to be an intolerable grievance. While all the expense of these lighthouses fell upon the merchant service, the Royal Navy experienced all the benefits of them, without, in the least contributing to their maintenance. The Royal Navy should pay their share of the expense. He had been induced more particularly to make these observations, from information he had received that it was in contemplation to erect a new light house at the expense of the merchant service, the sole benefit of which would result to the Royal Navy.
 Mr. Aglionby  would not vote for the plan of the hon. member for Colchester, but would vote for the principle. It was most desirable for the country to know the votes of every Member, and as he understood that the hon. Member's plan was not involved in the Motion, he should certainly vote for it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, if they admitted the principle, a Committee might arrange how the votes should be recorded. The names were now given, and the question was, should they be given correctly or incorrectly? At times great importance was attached to the publication of the names. In Canada, the votes always contained the names of the majorities and minorities. The House of Assembly was not indeed so large and so numerous as the House of Commons, but the principle was the same. If they were to set earnestly about it, the list of the majority and minority might be made in ten minutes on
 1085
 Mr. Warburton  hoped that the Order would not be rescinded without notice previously given. One great point to be decided was, whether the Merchant Tailors' was or was not a trading Company. In other places freemen were admitted to the privileges of the Corporation through the means of the Corporations themselves, bat in the City of London they could only be admitted through these Guilds. There was another point on which he wanted in-
 1046
 Mr. Warburton  inquired, how it could be possible, in the case of Liverpool, where there was so much opposition among the parties which divided the electors, for any individual to make a positive asseveration that no undue influence had been exerted? He considered that the Petition contained allegations which were fit subjects of inquiry.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that no attempt was made to unseat the noble Lord. Nothing in the petition went to assert that the noble Lord, or any of his supporters at the last election had been guilty of sanctioning any undue practice. The hon. Member who last addressed the House (as he understood him), had made an asseveration, that no undue influence or improper practices had taken place during the late election for Liverpool, either on the part of the noble Lord or of those who supported him.
 Mr. Abercromby,  as one of the Members of the Committee, could not help saying that they had been unjustly dealt with by some honourable Members. The majority Members of that Committee were as unknown to him as he was to them, but he thought it exceedingly strange that so much pains were taken to throw discredit upon the Committee. He should act unjustly towards the Committee, who had done him the honour to elect him their Chairman, if he did not say, that in the single meeting which had taken place, which, however, afforded a fair opportunity of eliciting the general scope and tendency of the opinions of the Members, he had the satisfaction of finding their views such as inspired him with a strong hope that the inquiry with which they were intrusted would be conducted in a spirit of fairness and justice. If there were individuals in the Committee who looked forward with confidence to the destruction of all Corporations, he could only say, that he was not one of them. He professed to act upon the opinion that Municipal Corporations were intended to promote peace, order and good government in the country, and if it appeared to him that those objects would be better secured by a reasonable
 1048
 Mr. Benett  observed, that most great towns had adjoining to them spaces of ground, such as the hon. Member proposed, to enclose, or rather open, for the purposes of recreation. For his part he thought it would be much better to introduce into private bills clauses for this purpose, than to make them the subject of a public measure.
 Mr. Benett  presented a petition from upwards of 3,000 inhabitants of Liverpool, complaining of bribery and corruption, both in the election of a chief Magistrate of that city, and in the election of Members of Parliament. The petitioners were persuaded that the provisions of the Reform Act were not sufficient to remedy the abuses complained of. The system of bribery which had prevailed at Liverpool had increased rather than diminished since the alteration which had recently been made respecting the laws of election. In fact, any chance of improvement in the mode of election was despaired of, unless those who bad formerly been in possession of the elective franchise as freemen of Liverpool should be entirely disfranchised. The Reform Bill, in the case of Liverpool, had certainly not remedied the evils, of which complaints had frequently been made. The petitioners were formerly opposed to
 1027
 Mr. Hume,  in rising to call the attention of the House to the state of the Public Accounts, said it was not his intention to institute any comparison between the mode of keeping the national accounts adopted in this kingdom and plans pursued in any other country, but to point out to the House the impropriety of the proceeding of voting money for each particular department separately, in total ignorance of the aggregate expense of the whole. Every statement of accounts, as yet presented to that House, had been defective, at least in one respect—none of them had ever stated what was the whole annual receipts and expendi-
 1060 l. l. l. 1061 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1062 l. l. l. 1063
 Mr. Hume  wished to make one observation. Some hon. Members had indulged in a laugh on hearing the noble Lord assert, that the commencement and termination of the financial year, as at present arranged, had met with his approval, supposing most probably, that the alteration had originated in a proposal of his own. But he would beg to recall to the noble Lord's recollection, that the proposition which he made in the Committee on this matter had been negatived, and he and his hon. friend (Mr. Warburton), who sat near him, were over-ruled upon this matter, the recommendation for altering the period of the financial year to its present duration having been subsequently suggested by the hon. member for Abingdon. If the noble Lord, however, felt it to be in-
 1067
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had now a Motion to submit to the House, which was of considerable importance to the whole of the shipping interest of this country—he meant the charges to which they were subjected for the maintenance and expense of Lighthouses on the coast. He (Mr. Hume) had first brought this question under the consideration of the House in the year 1821, when a Committee was appointed, who gave in a Report, in which hon. Members would find the amount of charge stated, to which the shipping interest was subjected on this account. He was bound to say, that since the Report of that Committee was made, much had been done to relieve the shipping interest from this charge; but, as ample details of the improvements recommended would be found in the Report alluded to, he would not trouble the House by repeating them. The complaint which he had now to make, was, that the King's prerogative was grossly abused in renewing leases of lighthouses to private individuals, and for their private benefit. In the Report laid before the House in 1823, relative to the shipping interest, it was recommended that ail lighthouses should be placed under the direction of the Trinity-house, and that no charge should be made for them beyond the exact amount expended for their maintenance; but, notwithstanding that recommendation, the leases of the lighthouse of Dungeness (which was let to Mr. Coke), and those of Harwich and Orfordness, had been renewed since that period on terms which entailed an annual expense of 30,000 l. 1068 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1069 l. l. 1070 1071 1072
 Mr. Hume  agreed in the distinction which the noble Lord had drawn between Municipal Corporations and Trading Companies, and he was also willing to admit that the Committee could have no right to interfere in the affairs of the latter. But before he could acknowledge that the Merchant Tailors' Company was not a Municipal Corporation, and as such within the scope of the powers wielded by the Committee, it must be shown that it was a trading company, and of what its trade consisted. It seemed to him to have two duties to perform, and one of them was clearly of a political character. He alluded to the creation of liverymen. At present there were 6,000 and upwards liverymen in London, and was it hot in the power of these guilds to increase that number to as many more thousands if they pleased? This circumstance, he contended, brought such companies within the description of Municipal Corporations, and he therefore entertained the opinion that the Committee had full power to examine their affairs. The whole question, in his opinion, turned upon the point of whether or not such bodies were or were not trading companies.
 Mr. Hume  was not ashamed of his vote on the Russian-Dutch Loan—he would vote so again—and he had published the lists of the majority and minority on that occasion.
 Mr. Hume  said, the simple question was, whether it was desirable that this should be done or not, for if desirable, then it could easily be done. He had had 658 names called over in half an hour by way of experiment, and if the experiment were made, it would be found that every Member could be called and could answer to his name in thirty-five minutes. The division of a full House usually lasted about forty-five minutes; and he would undertake that, in any division two individuals might make out the lists in that time by one calling over the names while the other wrote them down. He would do it himself, and he would rather take the trouble of doing it than have it done inaccurately if his services could prevent errors; for he
 1086
 Mr. Hume  said, if so he had made a mistake. When he had before brought this subject under the notice of the House,
 1077 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would authenticate his statement by reading the return sent in by Lord Braybrooke of the receipts, whence he had derived his information. On the expiration of the former lease, it had been arranged between the Commissioners of Woods and Forests and his Lordship, that after the expenses had been paid, the subsequent profits should be divided between the parties so agreeing. By this return, it appeared that Lord Braybrooke had received 11,877 l. l.
 Mr. Pease  was extremely glad that the hon. member for Middlesex had brought the subject before the House. He considered it a subject which not only deeply involved the interests of the country, but which still more deeply involved the interests of humanity, and the claims of that highly useful and meritorious class of men in whose welfare all persons must feel the most lively concern. From his local knowledge he was able to say, that in the harbours and coasts of the part of the country with which he was connected, the seamen were exposed to many risks by wanting lights, owing to the expense necessary to be incurred if lighthouses were constructed. The whole system, in his opinion, ought to be put under the control and management of a board of judicious, practical, and experienced persons. It had always appeared to him to be a most extraordinary anomaly that, whilst the highest persons in the State, and humane persons in general, were subscribing fifty or a hundred pounds to different societies, such for instance as the Marine Society, the Society for the Relief of Shipwrecked Seamen, to lifeboats, to Captain Manby's contrivance, and to similar objects, there should be a tax levied by individuals, and under the sanction of the Crown, which was nothing more nor less than a direct hindrance to the preservation of lives in the gross. He hoped that, after the Returns now moved for should be laid on the Table of the House, hon. Members would be able to see their way clearer, and would proceed still further than what had been suggested. Whilst mariners were a class of their fellow-subjects, to whose welfare all possible attention was due, and upon whose safety and interests no care could be ill-bestowed, as their lives and property were exposed for the benefit of others, was it not a strange anomaly that their lives should be placed even in greater jeopardy than was necessary, merely because the lighthouses were to be taxed, in order to raise sums to create a fund for paying seamen's pensions? If these pensions were necessary, let them be raised from other sources. Let there not be one single
 1076
 Mr. Potter  said, he felt greatly obliged to the hon. member for Shrewsbury for his repeated exertions upon this subject, and was sure, if the plan of having open spaces near large towns was adopted, the best results would follow. As the hon. Gentleman had alluded to Manchester, where he (Mr. Potter) had so long resided, he wished to confirm his statement as to the great want of open spaces for the recreation and health of the inhabitants. The county of Lancaster, it was well known, contained several large towns, but they were nearly all deficient in suitable places where the people could walk out. The hon. member for Shrewsbury had also alluded to the Manchester Association for the Preservation of Footpaths. He had been connected with the Society from its commencement, and could bear testimony to the great good it had done. Such was the constant desire to stop up foot-paths, that had it not been for the exertions of the Manchester Society, he believed there would at this time have been very few
 1058
 Mr. Wason  observed, that the noble Lord had commenced his speech by deprecating discussion; yet, during the
 1029
 Mr. Wason  answered, that of late years, the money had been wanting. The noble Lord might cry, "Oh!" but the last contested election for the Chief Magistracy of Liverpool had cost the successful candidate 8,000 l. 1030
 Mr. Slaney  rose for the purpose of moving that a Select Committee be appointed to consider the best means of securing open places in the neighbourhood of great towns, for the healthful exercise of the population. He had attempted some time since to bring forward this question, but from the state of public business he had been unable to do so. He now rejoiced at the delay which had thus taken place; for, in the mean time, a Reformed Parliament had been summoned, and there now sat as Members of it, several persons, Representatives of those large towns that were most interested in the present question. To show the condition of the population of the country at former periods, and at the present time he would refer to some abstracts of the population returns. These would prove that during the first ten years of the present century, the increase of the population had been fifteen and half per cent; during the second ten years, seventeen and a half per cent; and during the last ten years—namely, from 1821 to 1831—it had been again fifteen and a half per cent. The increase in the metropolis alone during the same three periods, had been seventeen per cent for the first ten years, twenty-one per cent for the second ten years, and twenty per cent for the last ten years. In Manchester during the same three periods, the increase had been in the proportion of twenty-two per cent for the first ten years forty per cent for the second ten years, and forty-seven per cent for the last ten years. An increase had taken place in nearly the same proportion in all the populous communities in the kingdom, so that taking the last thirty years from 1800 to 1831, there was an increase in four counties of thirty per cent, in the metropolis of fifty-eight per cent, in ten of
 1050 1051 1052 l. l. 1053 1054 1055 1056
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he knew the petitioner, and he could say that he believed his character, public and private, to be as good as that of the warden of the Merchant Tailors' Company; and as for his trade, he knew that it was fully as good, for he was a maker and issuer of hats, though not of notes.
 Mr. Hall  declared, that he was not aware of this extraordinary state of the prince's debts, but, after the noble Lord's observations, he would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Hall  rose, he said, to call the attention of the House to a financial statement which arose out of the settlement that had been made upon Prince Leopold, upon his marriage with the late Princess Charlotte. He held in his hand a copy of a letter which Prince Leopold had written to the noble Earl at the head of the Admin-
 1078
 Sir Charles Coote  begged to take that opportunity to refer to a statement which had been made by his hon. colleague (Mr. Lalor) in reference to the state of the Queen's County, on Tuesday night. The hon. Baronet was understood to say, that his hon. colleague had made the same charge on the hustings at Maryborough, in the Queen's County, and that when called upon for the names of the persons to whom he alluded he refused to give them. He was surprised, under such circumstances, to find that his hon. colleague not only persevered in the charge, but that he brought it forward in that House against persons who were absent, and who had no opportunity of defending themselves there. The Magistrate that was alluded to had stated to him that there was not the slightest foundation for the charge in question.
 The Speaker  admitted, that the hon. and gallant Member had travelled out of the question.
 The Speaker  said, it was very desirable that this point should be thoroughly understood. According to his view of it, it stood thus:—An hon. Member in presenting a petition would have an opportunity of speaking twice; first, on the question that the petition be brought up. The question that the petition do lie on the Table would then he a matter of course. If that were a matter of course, then the individual who presented the petition might lie by, and would have an opportunity of answering afterwards any of the observations that had been made.
 The Speaker  said, that having been personally alluded to by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, he deemed it necessary to make a few observations on the subject now before the House. The petition presented by the hon. member for Whitehaven (Mr. Attwood) prayed that the order made for referring another peti-
 1043
 Sir Edward Codrington  observed, that the lights in proper situations were of great benefit in the service, yet there was a danger of their being multiplied injuriously. It was a great point, and often not attainable, to distinguish one light from another, and in thinking they were off one, when they were off another, they were sure to run into danger.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  observed that the matter was of the first importance and deepest moment to the parties against whom such heavy charges had been brought, not only by an hon. and learned Member, but also by the petition. The parties were, however, fully prepared to meet those charges; and if that had not been the case he should not have risen to address the House upon the present occasion. His hon. friend had said that if accusations
 1038
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that the Com-
 1047
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that even according to the noble Lord's own showing, the clear and regular course to be pursued would be for the House to rescind the order of reference which had been made. By the noble Lord's own admission, it was manifest that the petition had been referred to an improper tribunal, and placed beyond the control of that House. But would it be more than an act of justice to all parties to have it brought back and placed on their Table, so that they might dispose of it as they should think fit?
 1042
 Sir Robert Peel  did not rise to contest the general principle that had been laid down upon the subject, for his own opinion was, that whatever might be the vested interests of individuals in these lighthouses, it would be better to make a compensation to such persons, and to put the whole of the lights under some public department. He rose, however, for the purpose of replying to the mis-statement that had been made by the hon. member for Worcester, and he most positively denied that there was the slightest ground for the imputation which the hon. Member had cast upon the Administration of which he (Sir R. Peel) had the honour of forming a part. He most positively contradicted the assertion that there had been any desire on the part of the late Administration to convert these lighthouses into a means of jobbing, or to draw from them any advantages whatever. The Duke of Wellington's Administration certainly did renew the leases of two lighthouses in 1828 which had fallen in during that year, and a right to a renewal of which was claimed by two individuals who possessed in them a vested interest To be sure, if the lease had been renewed to persons who sup-ported the Administration in Parliament, or to persons whose support might be calculated upon in consequence of such renewals, then he acknowledged that there might appear a  prima facie 1075
 Sir Robert Peel  could not conceive what object could be gained by the Motion. At present, on every interesting question, the names of the majorities and minorities were always given. On all the great questions that had been discussed in Parliament correct lists had been given—on the Catholic question—on the various parts of the Reform Bill, accurate lists of the votes had been published. He could not suppose that any objection would be made on account of the breach of privilege; for, on all great questions, the names were known. If they were taken by authority, would they be more accurate? He believed not. No man could be compelled to give in his name. The hon. Member's plan would be impracticable; and, if practicable, it would not necessarily ensure accuracy. If the Motion were successful, it would give rise to many petty Motions. Members would often press Motions to a division which they would not otherwise trouble themselves about, and it would lead to a great waste of time. It would be, in fact, a public nuisance. [Mr.  Hume 1087
 Lord Althorp  could not say that he agreed with the noble Lord, that Members ought not to be responsible to their constituents. Every Member ought, in his opinion, to be responsible to his constituents as well as to himself. At the same time, he did not think Gentlemen were bound to give pledges as to what they should do; but every Member should enter completely free to exercise his own judgment on all affairs that came before him, and to act as he thought best for the public good. His constituents, however, ought to judge if he acted consonant to their views. He, therefore, did not object to the Motion on the ground that the votes of the Members should not be known to their constituents. Nor could he, after consideration, think that the publication was any breach of the
 1084
 Lord Althorp  proposed an alteration in the rule of the House, relative to divisions—namely, that those who dissented from the Speaker's decision should go forth.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it was evident, by the letter which the hon. Member had read, that his Majesty the king of the Belgians had directed that all his outstanding debts in England, with the keeping up of Claremont and certain other expenses, should be defrayed before the balance of his annuity should be paid into the Exchequer. He (Lord Althorp) was not aware upon what grounds it had been calculated that the debts amounted to only 10,000 l. 1079
 Lord Althorp,  in explanation, said that, in stating that the powers of the Committee were confined to the investigation of Municipal Corporations only, he did not mean to determine whether the Merchant Tailors' Company was or was not a Municipal Corporation. He had purposely abstained from expressing any opinion on
 1044
 Lord Althorp  here interrupted the hon. Member, by making a reference to the recent regulations of the House, by which, the hon. Member, in this stage of the question, was precluded from making a reply, having made an opening speech on the presentation of petitions.
 Lord Althorp,  before he proceeded to reply to the hon. Member's observations, begged to remind him, that the terms of the Motion which he had just made were in direct contradiction to the arrangement which was made last year, with respect to the commencement and termination of the financial year, and which arrangement was also made with the hon. Member's approbation. By that arrangement the financial year extended from April to April in each year, and not as the hon. Member now apparently wished to fix it, from January to January; and with reference to what he himself had said on a former occasion relative to this matter, the hon. Member seemed to imply that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not understand the nature of the change which had been made in the financial terms. Now, what he had understood the alteration to amount to was, that the House agreed to vote a part of the Estimates for the then ensuing year, before the year had commenced; but he certainly did not imagine that the House meant, by its decision, to sanction the hon. Member's demand for an estimate of the expenditure of the ensuing year before the present year had expired, for he could not see how it was possible for that to be done. By the present mode of making out the financial accounts, the expenditure and receipts of the past year were first furnished at the close of the financial year, and then the Minister proceeded to state what the estimated expenditure was for the current
 1064 1065 Hume 1066 l. l.
 Lord Althorp  said, that before he proceeded to answer the question put to him by the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, he wished to make a single observation upon what had fallen from him relative to the manner and spirit in which the Committee was chosen. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) begged to assure the hon. Baronet and the House, that he bad taken the utmost pains in
 1039
 Lord Ebrington  rose to correct a statement made by an hon. Member (Mr. Hume). That hon. Gentleman had stated the annual receipts of Lord Braybrooke, from Winterton and Orfordness, to be 22,000 l.
 Lord Ebrington  observed that the hon. Member had stated the receipts at above 22,000 l.
 Lord Sandon : Not of late years.
 Lord Sandon  said, that he would not upon this occasion enter into a full discussion of this subject, as a fitter opportunity for so doing would present itself when his hon. friend should move for the Select Committee, the appointment of which he had intimated his intention to move for upon a future day. He could not avoid observing, however, that there were two or three strange peculiarities connected with this charge now preferred against the freemen of Liverpool. In the first place, when, upon the occasion of former elections at Liverpool, similar charges had been preferred against the freemen there, the parties so accusing them, either prosecuted such charges in the courts of justice, or before an election Committee of that House, or preferred them to that House, sitting, not in its judicial, but in its political capacity, when the witnesses that might be examined to the facts alleged could not be examined under the sanction of an oath. But the present accusers of the
 1028
 Lord Stormont  said, as the hon. Gentleman had alluded to him, he would take the opportunity of delivering his opinions on the subject. He was returned to Parliament without having given any pledge whatever, and he had no hesitation in saying that he would oppose the Motion. Pledges had been proposed to him, but to the proposition he had given a flat denial. He represented his own opinions in that House, and not the opinions of others. He came there determined always to exercise his own judgment, and act accordingly, and not to be guided by the will of any other individuals whatever. The Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman amounted to this, that there should be published an account of the proceedings of that House in respect to the votes given by the Members, &c.; and this arrangement might be very agreeable to those who took the popular side of the question. Now, he was one of those men who acted upon his own opinions—and he never would be afraid of expressing them. He trusted, however, that his character was so well known that no person would accuse him of doing anything which could be derogatory to the principles which he had always advocated. He well remembered that, in the Parliament before last, there was a certain red list and black published; the red being the names of those who voted for Reform, and the black being the names of those who voted against it; and he
 1083 The True Sun
 Mr. O'Connell  presented a Petition from the Corporation of Chandlers and Soapboilers of the City of Dublin, complaining of the effect of the present state of the Drawbacks in England. Their trade, in consequence of the Duty on Soap in England, being paid back on exportation was almost annihilated. They prayed that some measure might be introduced for the purpose of giving them relief, and for that purpose they suggested that the Tax on Soap should be entirely repealed.
 Mr. O'Connell allowed that the consumers did certainly get it a little cheaper at present, but then it was through the medium of a gross fraud on the revenue, by the perversion of public money to private speculation, and by the ruin of the Irish manufacturer. Whatever alteration the noble Lord might introduce, he hoped it would be for the abolition of the Excise-duty. His constituents were decidedly against allowing Excise-officers to come into their premises at all and he trusted that they would be chased from every manufacturer's door; their appearance checked industry, and the ingenuity of the country.
 Mr. O'Connell presented a Petition from William Blaxland of Leamington, praying the House not to pass any Bill by which arbitrary, military, or despotic power might be established in any part of these realms. For the present he should merely say, that during the last few days he had been consoled by receiving an immense number of letters from all parts of Great Britain, expressive of sympathy for his countrymen, and of unqualified disgust at any attempt to establish a military tyranny in Ireland.
 Mr. Stanley  said, the hon. and learned Member had stated but one-half of the petition. In justice to the House, he ought to have read the latter part, which asked for the repeal of all enactments by which any payments were made under the pretence of supporting Christianity."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, his only reason for not reading the part alluded to was, that petitions had been so frequently presented to the House upon the subject that he thought it was unnecessary. For his own part, it was well known that he heartily
 1100
 Mr. Ruthven  said, the question was not quite understood. What the Irish soapboilers particularly complained of was, that
 1099
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he understood the noble Lord differently, but no matter: he rose on the present occasion, principally for the purpose of apologizing to his constituents, for permitting one vote respecting this despotic Bill to pass without discussing it; but as the noble Lord had complied with the suggestion of many persons opposed to the measure, by postponing the first reading till Wednesday, he would abstain from entering into any debate respecting it, contenting himself
 1103
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the hon. and learned Member had made one observation, by which he appeared necessarily to connect two measures, which had no conexion with each other. Undoubtedly, Ministers had declared—and if some parties had given them more confidence for their good intentions, and would wait with a little more patience, to see whether they would perform their promises, instead of exciting violent opposition, before they knew what the conduct of Government was likely to be, it might have tended more to the peace of Ireland undoubtedly. Ministers had held forth an expectation that it was then their intention, acting on the principles which they had always professed, and he would venture to say, on which they had already acted, to direct their attention to the remedy of the real and acknowledged grievances of Ireland. So anxious had they been to prove to the House and the country that they were not putting forth mere professions, that they had taken the earliest possible opportunity, after the opening of the Session, to declare the measures which it was their intention to propose to Parliament. Those measures had been acknowledged by the reluctant consent of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, which he now vainly attempted to retract, to be real and substantial measures of relief and remedies for abuses. At the same time that Ministers announced these measures they applied to Parliament for another measure—which they had late asked for, and reluctantly resorted to—when it was imperiously called for, not for the maintenance of the present Administration, but for the maintenance of any Administration, and which, he declared to God, he would not have asked for, sitting on the benches where he did, if he would not have voted for, sitting on those opposed to him. If any Administration, let it have been formed
 1104 pari passu
 Mr. O'Connell  explained, that it was erroneously supposed that he had said his opposition to the present Bill would depend in a great measure on the success of what he called remedial measures. Although he had spoken on both of these measures, he had been mistaken when it was supposed that his hostility to this measure would, on any pretence whatever,
 1107
 Mr. Stanley  had only said, that he understood the hon. and learned Member's chief reason for opposing this measure at this time to be, that he saw no certainty that the other measures—those of a remedial nature—would pass with it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that was just the mistake of which he complained. He had certainly said, that he saw nothing to assure him that the measures of a remedial nature would pass; but he had said it without any reference whatever to the present Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Members of that House might be disposed to place the fullest confidence in the intention of Ministers, and to believe that they had the power of carrying their remedial measures through that House; but Ministers would not insinuate that they could control another assembly. Could it be said, that in another place, any measure advantageous to Ireland was certain of passing? Anything disadvantageous to her, was, he knew, sure to pass—any measure springing from malignant hatred of that country. No more on that point. He understood from the noble Lord a few nights since, that he expected to have been able to introduce the Grand Jury Bill during the week.
 An Hon. Member  said, the people of England had a right to exercise their privilege of judging for themselves, and without the dictation of the hon. Member, as to what men were fit to represent them. In consequence of a portion of the people having exercised their privilege in favour of him, he thought that he had as good a right as the hon. member for Middlesex to a seat in that House, As one of the two classes of men whom the hon. member for Middlesex had thought fit to calumniate, he thought he had a right to say, in his own defence, that he should do his duty as honestly as the hon. Member himself. Officers in the army and navy would not have been sent into Parliament, unless the people had confidence in them; and if the people had that confidence in them, they had a full right to their seats. At all events, if the title to sit in that House was to be put upon other grounds, those men who had served their country against the enemy had just as good a right to a seat as the hon. member for Middlesex, or any one who went about to catch the favouring breath of popularity.
 Captain Berkeley  said, that if there was not in this age a fashion to throw imputations on officers of his Majesty's service, he might feel indignant at the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex. He had the honour to hold a commission in the navy, and he thought that the hon. member for Middlesex did not know what the word honour meant, if he thought that an officer, for the sake of his paltry half-pay, would sell the interests of his constituents. He would tell the hon. member for Middlesex, that every officer of the army and navy threw back upon him his imputations. Men who thus accused others, did but judge of others by themselves, and he believed that if the hon. Member was placed in the situation of those men whom be now calumniated, he would act as he accused them of acting.
 An Hon. and Gallant Member  said, that he had the honour to hold a commission in his Majesty's service for forty years. He was now returned to that House by a large constituency. He thought that if
 1110
 An Hon. Member , who was not a member either of the army or navy, said he could not concur with the observations of the hon. member for Middlesex. He thought that the honourable Member had thrown out imputations without probability, which were slanders against the officers of the two services and against the people of this country generally, and especially against those constituencies which had returned them.
 Colonel Torrens  was disposed generally to agree with the hon. member for Middlesex, but of late he found that hon. Member enforcing such a vigorous discipline, that he found himself under a necessity of quitting the camp. [The hon. Member immediately went over to the Ministerial side of the House].
 The Attorney General  said, in stating what he did on the occasion alluded to by his hon. friend he had led the House into no mistake. It was true, that one part of the 60th George 3rd related to political offences: but there was another part which steered clear of all political matters, and was merely fiscal. It was under this latter part that Hetherington was convicted, his offence being his having published a newspaper without paying the stamp-duties required by law.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  observed, that the Government could not prevent those prosecutions, and he believed, that it gave no encouragement to them.
 Mr. Attwood  rose for the purpose of moving, that the order for referring the petition of R. H. Franks to the Committee on Municipal Corporations be discharged. He certainly was astonished to find that there was any hesitation upon the subject. It appeared to him quite clear, that the Committee on Municipal Corporations could not deal with the petition, and therefore it ought not to be referredto it. It had been attempted to maintain, that the trading Corporations of the city of London were Municipal Corporations. How was that possible? Could there be two Municipal Corporations in one town? Most assuredly not. Such a thing was never heard of; and yet in this case there must not only be two, but a great many more. The absurdity was too evident to receive the countenance of that House. A question had been raised as to whether the trading Corporations of London were really traders—as to whether they traded upon joint stocks or at all—or whether they were even formed for the purposes of trade. He contended, that they were in the strictest sense of the word trading Corporations. The Merchant Tailors' Company, like the Apothecaries' Company, trafficked with individual property, for the benefit of the persons to whom the property belonged. But the best way of deciding that point would be by reference to the charters by which they existed, and wherein the purposes for which they were created were set forth. Upon a reference to the last charter to the Merchant Tailors' Corporation, it would be seen, that it was strictly a trading Corporation. That charter was granted by Henry 5th. It contained the following passage:—'And, moreover, as we have been informed, that the men of the Mistery aforesaid, in our city afore-said, or at least the sounder part of them, have, from time whereof the memory of man is not to the contrary, and daily do use, occupy, and exercise, in all quarters and kingdoms of the world, all and every kinds of merchandizes,
 1115 1116 l 1117 1118
 Mr. Hill  denied, that he had been the counsel of the petitioner. If he were, he would not have presented the petition; as he considered, that doing so would be derogatory to his character and station. He stood there as a legislator, and was bound to act uprightly and impartially. With respect to the application made by
 1120 s d l s 1121
 The Attorney General : One benefit of the present discussion was that they were all at length agreed that, if not now, some distinct inquiry must speedily be made into the state of these trading Corporations, seeing that some of the functions exercised
 1125 1126
 An Hon. Member  said, that if the inquiry were not confined to the limits mentioned by the hon. Member who spoke last, the labours of the Committee would extend beyond three years. The proper course, he thought, would be, to ascertain the original foundation and institution of Corporations, and then to find out how far they had deviated from this their original institution. As the Lord Advocate, on a former occasion, had stated, with reference to Scotland, all Corporations were once conducted on the same system—that is, under the management of the whole of the burgesses. As to the meaning of the word Municipal, all Corporations were originally trading Guilds, before they were Corporations; and the Merchant Tailors' Company was therefore a municipal corporation. In all charters they were originally called Merchant Guilds.
 Mr. Attwood  briefly replied to the arguments of the different speakers, and defended the course which he had thought himself bound to take on the present occasion. He would, however, yield to the sense of the House, although his own opinions remained unchanged. He was convinced of the impropriety of giving these extended powers to the Committee; at the same time, he begged to assure the House that the Company against which Mr. Franks had presented this petition were ready to give to the Committee every explanation respecting their management of the funds intrusted to them for charitable purposes. They did not mean to shelter themselves under the petty pretexts which some hon. Members appeared ready to afford them. He asserted, on their behalf, that there was no part of their conduct, as a corporate body, for which every one of them was not ready to make himself responsible, not only with his person, but also with his character. He begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 Lord George Lennox , if he might express the feelings of his hon. and gallant relative, would venture to say, that he was satisfied. If the opinion of the House, composed of Gentlemen of all ranks and of the different services, felt that the honour of his gallant relative was satisfied, his hon. relative would be willing to bow to the decision of the House. He regretted the language used by the hon. member for Middlesex. The hon. Member had said, first the gallant Admiral, and then that he did not mean the gallant Admiral, but the gallant Captain; and the hon. Member had made an apology to the House and not to the individual. The hon. Member had not intended, however, to insult or to make any personal attack on the gallant Captain, and he would say, in the gallant Officer's name, that he was perfectly satisfied.
 Dr. Baldwin : The right hon. Gentleman said, that he would not continue to be a Minister of the Crown unless he could carry his coercive measures. But he
 1105
 Mr. Charles Butler  must hold the Government responsible for the prosecutions which were carried on under laws, that they might, if they would, repeal.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if any of the out-pensioners of Chelsea Hospital were called upon to serve in a veteran battalion,
 1112
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that notwithstanding the indiscretion of the right hon. Gentleman, the Irish Members would abstain from comment; but he would tell that right hon. Gentleman, that with respect to Ireland, the memorable words of the Paymaster of the Forces were exactly true, and that "the whisper of a faction would never prevail against the voice of the nation,"
 Mr. Grote  hoped the noble Lord (Althorp) would not accede to the Amendment of the hon. Baronet. It would be impossible to conduct an inquiry into the condition and management of the Corporation of London with advantage, if the Committee was restrained from investigating those sectional parts of the Corporation which he considered the corporate companies might be justly designated. The hon. member for Whitehaven was certainly consistent, for he objected to inquiring into Corporations altogether, and therefore objected to an inquiry into the state of the corporate companies. Those companies had been called trading companies, but they were nothing like trading companies in the proper sense of the word. When he heard of trading companies, he should expect to find such companies referred to as the Bank of England Company, or the East-India Company, which carried on trade or commerce for the benefit of the members. The companies carried on no trade or commerce. They made laws for particular trades; and this was of the essence of Municipal Corporations. There was the Fishmongers' Company, for instance, which made and enforced certain regulations respecting the importation and sale of fish, and, he believed, last summer had exercised its authority in a manner very advantageous to the community, by preventing the sale of unwholesome fish. He did not quarrel with the exercise of such privileges, he only contended that such powers belonged properly, and were a part of the power usually belonging to Municipal
 1123
 Mr. Goring  presented a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Worthing, for the abolishing of the Inhabited House-duty and Window-taxes. He begged to observe, that he heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition, which was numerously signed by respectable housekeepers. He stated that he sincerely hoped his Majesty's Ministers would repeal those duties which pressed so heavily upon the middle class, and which were levied and collected most inequitably. If his Majesty's Ministers wished to retain the confidence of the country, they must adopt and continue alone such taxes as were founded on just and impartial principles. He had no wish to embarrass his Majesty's Ministers, but he thought they must be prepared to repeal these duties. When he found, that the right hon. Secretary at War had, so long ago as 1822, advocated the immediate repeal of these taxes, and had, in a most eloquent speech, proved these always to have been considered as war taxes, not only by Mr. Fox and Mr. Wyndham, but also by Mr. Pitt, and when he found the right hon. Secretary at War, saying in that speech—'I have before told you to what amount I think we have a right to diminished taxation. If you have no surplus, reduce your expenditure. That there are means of so doing, no one can doubt, but the particular mode need not be shown by me, or by any one; that onus lies upon you. You have no right to your large establishments—it is ridiculous to call them necessary—they cannot be necessary if the people cannot afford to pay for them.' * * 1101
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that, in his opinion, the House ought distinctly to state what were to be the duties of the Committee; for although he had, when the noble Lord moved for its appointment, taken the same view of its duties as the noble Lord had done, still what had occurred in the course of the debate upon the present question showed that each individual upon that Committee might take a very different view of the meaning of the term Corporation to that of any other Member of it, and for that reason it was incumbent upon the
 1124 "Mobilitate viget, viresque acquirit eundo;"
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that without wishing to enter into any debate, he would enter his protest against the Bill,
 Mr. Warburton  said, that this Corporation must be subject to inquiry as well as others, for it was strictly Municipal. He agreed with the hon. member for Hull, that the term "Municipal" was a term unknown to the English law. It was borrowed from the Roman law, and to the Roman law they must refer to ascertain its meaning. He should therefore refer to a quotation from the  Digest municeps Digest munus officium municipes igitur appel-lantur quia munera civilia perficiunt municipes s d l s
 Mr. Abercromby  rose to make a few observations with respect to his own views on the subject. He was deeply aware of its importance, and of the general anxiety which prevailed throughout
 1127 1128
 Mr. Roebuck  was aware that it had often been held as a constitutional principle, that the Representatives of the people should not be the servants of the Crown; but he objected to that doctrine, not because it was too liberal, but because it was not sufficiently democratic. He held that no constraint should be placed upon the choice of the people.
 Mr. Hume  added to his Motion the words suggested by the noble Lord, and then said that he had not calumniated any man. He Was in a different situation from the hon. Member. The King could not strike him out of the list of officers as the King could strike out the hon. Member, and consequently, the hon. and
 1109
 Mr. Hume  did not regret the departure of the gallant Officer, for, while in the camp he never found him amenable to any discipline. As to any imputations thrown out against himself, he flung them back with as much contempt, and scorn as they were flung upon him.
 Mr. Hume , in moving for the number of prosecutions for cheap publications which had taken place since August last, expressed his regret that these prosecutions had been more numerous under a Whig Administration than under a Tory Government. When he last brought
 1113
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, when the House might expect the remedial measures which the Government had promised. He hoped that the House would not pass the present Bill, until the others were passed, or, at least, until they were satisfied that they would pass, lest they should render themselves liable to be charged with passing only the coercive measure. The experience of last year was not lost upon him. The Government then told the House that, remedial measures should be
 1102
 Mr. Hume  moved for the appointment of a Committee, to examine into the number of Members of both Houses of Parliament who hold offices under the Crown, and who are removable at pleasure. He should take that opportunity of saying, that in his opinion such persons ought not to be Members of either House of Parliament. Indeed, he should go further, though he well knew how much his sentiments on that point were at variance with those of other men, that neither Officers in the Army nor Navy ought to have seats in that House. He knew how his opinion
 1108
 Mr. Hume : I can have no hesitation in stating my recollection of what took place, and in showing how impossible it was for me to have intended personal offence to any individual. I stated certain circumstances, which I said excited suspicions in my mind, but I added, that I hoped that no expression of mine would give offence to any individual. The hon. and gallant member for Glocester, in referring to what I said, observed that such a dishonourable opinion as I appeared to entertain of the officers of the army must arise from a conviction on my part, that I should act so were I in their situation. That was imputing a motive to me—a course which, in itself, is unparliamentary. I then said, that I threw back the insinuation with contempt. Contempt was the word I used. It is a word that ought never to be used in Parliament, but it is often used, and, in my opinion, always improperly. I thought at the time that the hon. and gallant Officer, in throwing out an imputation against my motives justified me in using the expression which I did, but I meant nothing more by it than to set myself and my opinion, right in the opinion of the House; and I therefore appeal to you, Mr. Speaker, whether, after guarding myself as I did by stating, that I did not mean my expressions to have any individual application, the hon. and gallant Officer was right in imputing
 1131
 Mr. Lalor  said, it would be much better for the noble Lord to repeal the tax in England, than lay it on in Ireland.
 Mr. Phillp Howard  said, it would be easy for the hon. member for Middlesex to show instances of officers being arbitrarily struck off the list of commissioned officers during the earlier period of the American war. But in late years, that had not been done, for public opinion had prevented the recurrence
 1111
 Mr. Philip Howard  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not said the Government had declared that they should not call themselves a Government if they could not carry both the remedial and coercive measures, but that it would not continue to conduct the affairs of the country. The Government was now passing through Parliament remedial measures; and, if Gentlemen would attack the Government, let them do so on correct premises.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had laid down the proposition which could not be disputed, that no Government could call itself a Government without being able to carry remedial, as well as coercive measures. He thought that they ought to be certain that the remedial measures introduced into that House would be carried elsewhere. He agreed with the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman; and if that were so, he should like to know what had become of that portion of the remedial measures for Ireland to which the Government were pledged that it should be passed through that House? He meant the law by which the system of calling Juries in Ireland was
 1106
 Mr. Cobbett  had no difficulty in saying that he should much rather have officers of the army and navy in that House than have it filled with landowners, who pocketed so much of the people's money. He fully agreed with those Members who had said that the half-pay of the army and navy was a reward for past services, and not at all in the nature of a retaining fee; and therefore he held that there could not be an act of more grievous tyranny than to deprive any military man—be his rank what it might—of the fair reward of his laborious and hazardous servitude. He had himself, not long since, received a petition from a man in Oldham, who had served in the army for many years, and who, without any cause assigned, had been deprived of a pension earned by years of hard service. He was a man who had received three wounds—one of them at the battle of Waterloo. That petition he had forwarded to the War Office, but had not received any communication in reply.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he was the innocent cause of the passing of the Act referred to; and he would ask the Ministers whether, as it had been found to fail, it would not be well to repeal it? So long as that Act remained on the Statute-book, so long there would exist a proof of their political tergiversation; and the sooner they got rid of it, the sooner they were likely to recover some part of their almost totally lost popularity.
 Mr. Finn  was satisfied of this, that no measure of a remedial nature would be received with gratitude in Ireland, if it was passed in conjunction with a measure of this kind The people of Ireland prized liberty too highly to accept anything as a substitute for it. Their condition might be improved; but if they were fed upon beef and mutton, but deprived of liberty, they would not be satisfied.
 Mr. James  agreed with Mr. Abercromby in stating, that the agitation on this subject was not of recent growth. He had a petition on the subject from his constituents, which had been agreed to some weeks since.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was satisfied, that the House-tax was very unfairly levied, and was very unequal in its operation. He did not, however, go to the full extent of the prayer of this petition, because he was aware that, at the present moment, all classes were calling for the repeal of taxes which pressed peculiarly upon them; and it was impossible for Government to yield to all those demands. It must rest, therefore, with the Government, to consider what taxes should be taken off. Since he had had the honour of a seat in Parliament, he had known many taxes repealed, which had not benefited the public. That was the case with respect to the repeal of the Leather-tax. The only persons who had profited by the repeal of that tax were the leather-sellers and curriers; whilst the poor, who were told that they would get their shoes cheaper, did not pay one farthing less for them than before. The House should consider the subject dispassionately, and repeal those taxes which pressed most heavily on the best interests of the country.
 The Speaker  was sure, that the House felt itself deeply indebted to the noble Lord for having done that which was so essential on the present occasion, and which, coming from an individual so peculiarly entitled by his station, his temper, and his character to interpose, was likely to bring the two hon. Members back to a right feeling that personal offence was not intended on either side. He regretted, that the hon. and gallant member for Glocester was not at that moment in his place. He was perfectly well aware of what the hon. member for Middlesex had stated, that in using the expression, he had not meant any personal offence to the hon. and gallant member for Glocester. He (the Speaker) had heard the expressions to which the noble Lord had referred, and he confessed that, if his memory did not fail him when he heard them, he took the meaning to be this—that the hon. Member should treat insinuations against himself with the same contempt with which insinuations supposed to be made by him were received at the other side. He (the Speaker) had not interfered at the time; he was generally backward in doing so, lest his interposition might tend to create the offence which he was anxious to prevent. The attention of the House having been called to the expressions, he must say, that they had been explained by the hon. member for Middlesex, who had declared that he had meant no personal offence against the hon. and gallant member for Glocester. With that explanation the House was satisfied, and if the House was satisfied, it appeared to him that the proudest and most gallant man that ever lived need not object to their decision. If what he now stated did not
 1132
 Sir Edward Codrington  should not condescend to answer the supposition of the hon. member for Middlesex, that he should, individually, be biassed by the motives to which the hon. Member had referred. He rose to protest against the doctrine, that the officers of the Army or Navy were necessarily subservient to the Government. He did not look on his half-pay as a retaining fee, but as a reward for past services. He was ready to meet the question, whether that was so or not, either upon common principle or on the decision of the twelve Judges. That question had, in fact, been decided in 1793, when the Duke of St. Alban's, then a Lieutenant in the Navy, had his right to his half-pay brought into question, because he did not offer himself for service. On that occasion the twelve Judges decided that half-pay was a reward for past, and not a retaining fee for future services, and they took a distinction between the army and the navy in that respect, as a man in the Navy could not have his half-pay until after active service, but he might have it without service in the army. It was, however, known that officers in the army often sold their half-pay; and who bought it? Why, the Government. Would the Government buy that, if it was a retaining fee for future services?—Certainly not. How, then, could the hon. member for Middlesex think that all the officers were subservient to Government on account of that which they had a right to for past services?
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that he had proposed his Amendment in the hope that it expressed the opinions of the noble Lord opposite, but as he found that it did not, and that the opinion of the House was against him, he would, with permission, withdraw his Amendment.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  thought, he did not claim too much credit for himself and the party with whom he acted, when he said, that they were actuated, on this and on every other occasion, by as much independence of feeling as the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, A great deal of unnecessary warmth had been imparted to this question, which he (Sir Edward Knatchbull) would not imitate. The proceedings of the Courts of Justice, for instance, he thought, had been most unnecessarily introduced. The question which had been put (o the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which the House had really to consider, was one of the simplest nature—namely, whether the petition was such as came, in point of fact and substance, within the inquiry of the Committee to which it had been referred? The noble Lord, with his usual candour admitted, that the trading Companies did not come generally within the scope of the Committee's inquiries; reserving to the Committee, however, the right of inquiry into those Companies so far as they were connected with Municipal Corporations. Now, he liberated himself, and those with whom he acted, from all the unfounded observations made upon them, by admitting the accuracy and fairness of the noble Lord's view, and adopting at once his doctrine, that the Committee should have the power of inquiry into the trading Corporations, so far as those
 1122
 Sir Francis Burdett observed, that the Irish in general, the consumers, got their soap cheaper by the present system, although a change might be advantageous to the manufacturers. If any body suffered by the present state of the law, it was the English.
 Lord Althorp  said, that a bill which he intended as a remedial measure—namely, that for getting rid of the collection of tithes under the former system, was passed during the last Session. If Gentlemen chose to put a different interpretation on what Ministers said, from that which they intended it to bear, that was not the fault of Ministers. The Report of the Tithe Committee, if it had been examined, would have shown what was the nature of the remedial measure which the Government intended to propose upon that occasion. With respect to the remedial measures at present in contemplation, he had stated, a day or two ago, that he hoped to be able to introduce the Bill for Church Reform by the end of next week, and the Bill for amending the Grand Jury system by the middle of the week. It was for the House to decide, whether they had sufficient confidence in Ministers to believe that they were in earnest, when they said they would carry through the remedial measures.
 Lord Althorp : I need hardly say, that I admit having given the pledge referred to; nor do I take credit for making the admission, for many of the Gentlemen now around me must, of course, perfectly recollect that I did give such a pledge. I hope the House will believe me when I say, that I gave it with the most perfect sincerity—and, I will add, that I gave it with the most perfect confidence that it would be redeemed. The Bill which the hon. and learned Member refers to was not carried through the other House of Parliament, because it was so late in the Session that it could not be passed before the Prorogation. I had expected that it would have been got through before the end of the Session. I am ready to say, now that my pledge was not redeemed, and, further, that I am bound to see it redeemed, by bringing forward at an early period, a measure respecting Juries. I do not consider, from the circumstances under which that pledge was not redeemed, that I was so compromised as to make it impossible for me to remain a member of the Government. On that point I may be wrong, but I do not think I am; and I trust that the House will think me right.
 Lord Althorp  had no objection to the appointment of the Committee, He only suggested that it should be an instruction to the Committee to report on the number that had sat in Parliament in several antecedent periods.
 Lord Althorp : I said next week.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the Act 60 Geo. 3rd referred to many matters, and he thought it would be impossible to repeal it entirely. Part might be retained, and part ought to be repealed, but at the present moment he could not say, that he would make any proposition on the subject during the present Session. With respect to the prosecutions of which the hon. member for Middlesex had complained, he begged to state, that Government was not responsible for them. They were instituted by common informers.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that it was a mistake to suppose, that all those prosecutions
 1114
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member concluded his speech by adverting to the mode in which the business of that House was conducted. It was for this reason that he rose to make a few observations in reply. The hon. Member was certainly mistaken, if he thought that any propositions could be allowed to interfere with the regular business of the Session. The business of the House should be conducted with the strictest regularity, and nothing would be allowed to interfere with it. The hon. Gentleman had also said, that the House was an experiment. So it was, and a very successful and satisfactory experiment. It was the result of the elections under the Reform Bill; and the country had, as yet, every reason to be satisfied with its composition. Every party had reason to be satisfied; and the sad predictions uttered by the hon. Gentleman, during the gloomy discussions of last year, on the Reform Bill, would, he felt confident, prove completely fallacious. As the party that made those woeful forebodings said, that they should rejoice if they failed in their prophecies,
 1119
 Lord Althorp  did not feel, that it would be consistent with his sense of duty to adopt the Amendment proposed by the hon. Baronet. If the Committee were to be constrained to pursue a limited course of inquiry with respect to the corporate bodies of which the Municipality of the city of London was composed, and were to be debarred from instituting any examination which they might choose into such matters as seemed to them to be relevant topics of inquiry, it would be impossible for them to do their duty properly, or in a manner that would be satisfactory to the public. In order, however, to show the disposition which prevailed in the Committee with respect to the subjects of inquiry, he would read to the House a resolution which had already been adopted by them at the only sitting which they had hitherto held, and which stated, that they considered the object chiefly to be had in view was, the improvement of the corporate bodies, and that, in order to effect this object, there was no necessity to go back into past grievances, but their principal endeavours would be confined to the inquiry into the present and existing evils and abuses in those Corporations, with a view to their exposure. Such being the only resolution to which the Committee had come, at the first and only meeting they had yet had, he would leave the House to judge from this how far they were likely to pursue the subject of their inquiries to an extent which could reasonably afford any alarm to those interested in these Corporations. He, therefore, did not think, that the House would be acting advisably in laying down any rules for the guidance of the Committee, and objected to the adoption of any such suggestion.
 Lord Althorp  then addressed the Speaker, and said, that before the House separated he wished to call its attention to a circumstance which had taken place in the early part of the evening. In the course of the debate upon the motion of the hon. member for Middlesex for a Select Committee to examine into and report upon the number of Members of Parliament who held offices, places, and emoluments under the Crown, some expressions had been used which, he understood, were likely to lead to those consequences which the House was always most peculiarly anxious to avoid. Under these circumstances, he offered himself to the notice of the House, without having had any communication with either of the hon. Members to whom he was now compelled more specifically to allude. But having heard the expressions used by the hon. member for Middlesex that evening with respect to such officers of the army as held seats in that House, he felt hound to state that those expressions
 1130
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had intended, according to the usual course of proceeding, to have moved that the Bill should be read a first time, upon its being brought from the other House; but, as several Members had expressed a wish that the Bill should be printed before it passed through any of its stages; he felt it necessary to comply with that wish, and he would, therefore, now move that it be printed, and that the first reading be taken on Wednesday next.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was undoubtedly true that at present the Irish soap-boilers were much injured by the state of the drawbacks. There were three modes in which that evil could be remedied. The first was, by an alteration of the drawbacks; the second, that suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman of taking off the duty altogether; the third, to take off half the tax in England, and lay it on in Ireland. He hoped soon to bring forward a measure which would remedy the grievance complained of.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the question was one which he should feel little difficulty in answering. Before any one resolved that Poor-laws ought to be introduced into Ireland, he must resolve what description of Poor-laws was necessary, what should be their extent, and on what principle they should be founded. As to the observation which the hon. Member had made, he surely must know, that there was no question on which all parties were more divided among themselves than that of the Poor-laws, and that was especially the case with the Members from Ireland among whom the difference of opinion existed, without reference to political or to religious sentiments. The difference of opinion, in fact, was that which all honest and consistent men might conscientiously entertain, when trying to form a satisfactory judgment on so important a subject. Under these circumstances, he did not think it matter of blame to the Ministers, that, among the multitude of affairs to which they had to direct their attention, they had not been able to bring before the House the subject of affording a legal provision for the poor of Ireland. He thought, indeed, that if there was one subject of blame more to be feared by the Government than another, it was that of bringing in measures for the relief of the poor, crudely prepared, and brought in for the sake of catching at popularity, rather than from any well-grounded confidence of their excellence, or any firm and settled conviction that they were right, both in principle and details, and were calculated to produce benefit to the people at large. After having thus expressed his opinion, he should only add, that his Majesty's Government were not, at this moment, prepared to bring in a measure for giving Poor-laws to Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the question relative to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland was a most important one. The hon. member for Essex had done him injustice when he stated that he (Mr. O'Connell) was opposed to the introduce-
 1150 1151
 Mr. Lennard  could assure the House, that the petitioners had not forgotten the conduct of the Government, but had, on the contrary, at their meeting, dwelt with great satisfaction on those of their measures which mitigated the criminal code. The present petition was one out of the thousand proofs which would be given to Parliament of the growing dislike and disapprobation of the people to the severity of our criminal code. He was ready to go to the length of saying, that no crime against property, unaccompanied by violence to the person, ought to be subject to the punishment of death. Robbery was still, however, a capital offence. [" No no from the Solicitor General 1156
 The Attorney General  rose lest his silence might be misunderstood. He would yield to no man in his desire to mitigate the severity of the criminal code; but he hoped that all further relaxations would be attempted upon practical and not theoretic grounds. He was ready to
 1159
 Colonel Torrens  presented a Petition from Bolton, in favour of the Ten-hours Limitation Factory Bill, and also praying that no children under the age of nine years be employed in factories. He observed that many persons were apprehensive that limiting the hours of labour could not but have the effect of increasing the expenses of production; but he would offer to such persons, as the best consolation, the assurance, that the repeal of the taxes on bread would more than compensate them for any increased expenses of production.
 Colonel Williams  said, that though he was not connected with the town of Bolton, he had been requested to support the prayer of this petition. He considered this practice of overworking children to be attributable to the avarice of the masters, and he hoped that some means would speedily be devised for putting an end to the grievance.
 An Hon. Member  said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that the outcry against master-manufacturers was unjust; and he besides considered that it tended to prejudice the public mind against them. While he made this avowal, he begged also to say, that he did not agree with the hon. member for Middlesex in attributing the distress of manufacturers to any foreign competition. The masters of cotton factories had little or no competition with France. The competition lay at home, between the towns of Lancashire and Glasgow, and other neighbouring Scotch towns. Let this competition be
 1163
 An Hon. Member  observed that very strong imputations were brought against the master-manufacturers, which he believed were stated for the mere purpose of making an impression. Several attempts were made during the course of the last summer to prejudice and stimulate the public to make cause against the manufacturers; and, amongst others, he might instance the public entry into Manchester,
 1164
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that he was apprehensive lest the same strain of invective should be used in that House, in debating the question, that was used out of doors. He hoped the matter would be discussed dispassionately by hon. Members; and he begged to state, that he was personally acquainted with many great manufacturers, who desired nothing more than that the question should be brought before the House. He lamented that any portion of the wealth of the Aristocracy should arise from, or that any part of the National Debt should be laid on, the bodies of unfortunate children.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  was not aware in what part of the country the elections to which the hon. member for Birmingham had alluded, and the circumstances he had stated had occurred, but he must say, that it would have been impossible, without the protection of the military, for the electors of Wolverhampton to have conscientiously recorded their votes in the late contest. The usual protection afforded on such occasions was through the instrumentality of the police, but if that was found insufficient, he must declare, that it was absolutely necessary that the electors should have the protection of the military. He trusted that the people of this country would never be induced by hints thrown out in that House, or by instigation elsewhere,
 1168
 An Hon. Member : As the hon. Member had said that such transactions had taken place, he ought in justice to mention the name, otherwise it would be impossible for Members to have an opportunity of contradicting his assertions.
 An Hon. Member  had heard from persons who had been present the circumstances attending the military interference at Sheffield, and from what he knew he could say that if any such interference was justifiable it was at Sheffield, for by it the town had been saved.
 An Hon. Member  begged to be allowed as one of the Representatives for Ireland, to observe that the injurious effects of military interference at elections had been there felt, and that in the county with which he was connected, not only had the military been marched into the town, but brought before the Committee Rooms of some of the candidates.
 Mr. Charles Langdale  was surprised to find, that the cause of working children so hard was by some solely attributed to the Aristocracy. He deprecated the attempts at casting odium on that body, for such attempts were most unjust and unfounded. He contended that if the Corn-laws were repealed, many persons would be thrown out of employment, and the manufacturers would lose their very best customers.
 Mr. Lamb  was happy to inform his hon. friend that the subject of prison discipline and secondary punishments was under the consideration of Government. A gentleman had been sent out to America to investigate the system of secondary punishments, and the state of prison discipline established in that country, and to report thereupon to the Government. When the report was made, he considered that the Penitentiary would afford an ample opportunity for making experiments on the American plan, if it should be thought advisable so to do, without building a new prison. He was ready to express his concurrence in the general prayer of the petition; but he thought it would be better, instead of abolishing the punishment of death by a general law, to treat every crime separately, and to see what effect was produced in each particular instance by the relaxation of the extreme penalty of the law. It was by gradual and cautious legislation that they could best mitigate the code without endangering the security of life and property. He did not mean to undervalue the alterations which had been made: on the contrary, he felt on the whole that they had been improvements. At the same time he must say, that he had, in his official capacity, received several remonstrances against some of those alterations. He believed, that they had had a good effect, but he mentioned the circumstance for the purpose of impressing on the House the propriety of dealing with this subject with moderation. At the same time he was ready to declare, that they ought not to stop in their course of improving the criminal code until they could fairly say, that the penalty of death was attached to no crime which did not
 1157
 Colonel Perceval  said, that he had given notice of a Motion with reference to the return ordered on the 14th instant, respecting the number of persons committed for trial for offences in Ireland, to add the words "distinguishing Roman Catholics from Protestants;" but the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Rice) had told him that his Motion was incorrect. This, however, was not the case, for had not similar returns been made some time since with respect to the counties of Kilkenny, Mayo, and the Queen's County, in which the identical distinction was made for which he now sought? The Protestant were distinguished from the Roman Catholic delinquents in those returns, and he therefore could not see what difficulty there could be in supplying the informa-
 1147
 Mr. O'Dwyer  agreed with the hon. Members that spoke on each side of the question, for they all confessed, that there
 1165
 Mr. Rotch  complained of the state of some of the prisons, particularly Newgate, which was a disgrace to the country. He himself, as one of the bench of Magistrates, had made several unsuccessful attempts to classify the prisoners, but the confined state of the prison rendered such a classification impossible. He, however, expected very little to be done towards the prevention of crime until the resolutions of different Committees of that House respecting prison discipline were carried into effect. Those resolutions, he was sorry to say, were generally neglected throughout the country. There were 1,200 prisoners for example within that small space, and the city of London, which had lately had an opportunity of increasing it, neglected to do so.
 Mr. Forster  said, that as member for the borough of Walsall, he craved the indulgence of the House while he offered one or two observations upon the present occasion. He had heard with surprise the remarks which had been made by the hon. member for Birmingham, and he was the more astonished to hear those remarks applied to the contest for the borough he (Mr. Forster) represented, as the whole facts and circumstances of that election must be well known by the hon. Gentleman, who had himself been present and of whom it might be said " quorum pars magna fuit 1169
 Mr. C W. Wynn , agreed with the hon. under Secretary of State, that the crime of burglary deserved the severest punishment which the law inflicted. It was a crime of the most serious nature; and being perpetrated for the most part at the dead of night, it was not only calculated to excite the greatest terror, but also to lead to murder; and more especially in cases where resistance was offered. He was not, however, opposed to mitigation of the criminal code; on the contrary, he thought that there were many cases in which a milder punishment might be safely substituted for that of death. There were even cases which now came under the class of burglaries which ought not to be visited with extreme severity; for instance, a person merely lifting the latch of a door, and entering an outbuilding, and stealing above a certain amount, was guilty of burglary. But it was most desirable that there should be a classification of crimes, and that those of very different magnitude should not be placed together. He agreed also with the hon. under Secretary, that nothing but strong mitigatory circumstances should ever induce the Home Office to commute, for a milder punishment, the sentence of transportation for life, now attached to offences formerly punishable by death. It was well known that there were sheep-walks in Wales
 1158
 Mr. Portman  rose to move, pursuant to the notice which he had given, for leave to bring; in a Bill to consolidate and amend the laws relating to Highways. The subject was one of very great importance, and he should, therefore, with as much brevity as possible,
 1145 1146 ratione de jure
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he should wish Returns of Naval Appointments to be granted, for he should then be able to show that some of these appointments which the right hon. Secretary opposite had stated would amount to but 4,500 l l
 Mr. Robinson  was of opinion that the certainty of the infliction of a minor punishment would be much more effectual for the repression of crime than the uncertainty, in many cases, at present attending the execution of the sanguinary penalty of death. He hoped to see the severity of the criminal code still further relaxed.
 Mr. Buckingham  supported the prayer of the petition, namely, that all elections where military interference had been used should be declared null and void. Every Member knew, and each constituency must know, that the law provided for the removal of military to a certain distance from the place of election, in order that no such interference might take place; but the question now was, whether in many instances, such interference had been necessary; and he thought no person could deny that in Sheffield, on the late election, the interference was improper. In the case
 1170 l
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he could not admit the analogy between a man shooting a robber in his own defence, and the State taking away the life of the offender. The law, as a tribunal, could not be influenced by fear. Its object in punishing a criminal was to prevent a recurrence of the crime, and, as far as possible, restitution to the individual or the State. For his own part he would go so far as to say, that no crime should be punished with death, because, by death, they took away all means of reform or restitution.
 Mr. Walter  presented a Petition on the subject of tithes from the Inhabitants of Wokingham and its Vicinities. It might recommend the object of the petitioners to the favourable consideration of the House, when he assured it that they did not wish to infringe in any manner the just rights of the clergy, nor to divert to foreign or unbecoming purposes the funds to be raised out of an equitable commutation of tithe; of which system, however, as it now existed, they earnestly prayed the House to undertake the immediate extinction. He could further state, that in no communication which he had ever had, whether with members of the Church of England itself, or with Dissenters, had any disposition appeared to despoil the Church of a fair equivalent for its present revenues. The most difficult topic connected with this question was, the possession of tithe by laymen and by lay Corporations; and, upon this head
 1160 l l l
 Mr. Wilks  seconded the Motion, and said that the measure would remove many of the abuses and difficulties now experienced, and that assimilating the highway rate to the Poor-rates would tend to simplify the matter exceedingly. The hon. Gentleman deserved great credit for the pains he had bestowed upon the measure.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Metropolis, praying for a change of the Laws with regard to the infliction of Capital Punishment. The petition was signed by 5,330 persons. The petitioners stated, that in their opinion, the severity of punishment ought to be diminished, and its certainty increased. At present the infliction of punishment was but a lottery, and the chances of escape were between 300 or 400 to 100 in favour of the prisoner. The law, therefore, instead of being a terror to evil doers, had become a matter of little importance. In consequence of the severity of the law, there was a general conspiracy to prevent the infliction of the punishment it awarded. If the severity of the punishment was relaxed, prosecutions would increase a hundred fold. He thought that capital punishments ought to
 1153 1154
 Mr. Hume  said, that he wished to obtain certain Returns relating to Colonels of regiments, in order to show that many of them derived very considerable advantages from their appointments, advantages which, in his opinion, exceeded the limit of propriety. Many of the offices they held were almost sinecures, and perhaps if the duty of clothing their regiments was excepted, were perfect sinecures. He could not think, that such a system was advantageous, or that it ought to be persevered in. He would move for a Return of the name and rank of every Colonel now commanding a regiment, stating the date of each commission in the army, the date of his first appointment to the command of that or any other regiment, the rank held at the time of such first appointment to a regiment, the number of years on foreign service with his regiment, or on the staff at the time of such first appointment to a regiment, distinguishing each period of service; also, whether he holds any other and what civil or military office or appointment, the date of each such appointment, and stating the pay of his rank, the salary, pay, and emoluments derived from each office or appointment, and from the regiment he commands, so as to exhibit the annual sum derived from the public. When these Returns were laid on the Table, the House would be able to see what were the pensions and sinecures enjoyed by some of these Gentlemen, and would have an opportunity of comparing those advantages with their services, and of ascertaining whether these revenues and pensions had always been conferred as the reward of merit. The House had been, for several years past, voting large sums of the public money under false pretences. He did not wish to criminate individuals, or allude to particular cases; but, as it was clear that the Executive Government either would not or could not controul these improper appointments, it therefore was the business of the House to interfere, and stop the remunerations, if it could not prevent the promotions. He was
 1152
 Mr. Hume  said, that with regard to the Army List, though he might procure there some of the information he wanted, he did not know that he was entitled to speak upon the authority of any information except on that officially communicated.
 Mr. Hume  considered the question before the House as one of principle, and he wished hon. Members would treat it as such. The taunt that had been thrown out against the hon. member for Wolverhampton was not deserved, for the fell sure that the hon. Gentleman dealt fairly with the subject before the House. For himself, he repeatedly heard the masters of factories accused of wanton cruelty. They were called brutes, as if they took pleasure in inflicting punishment. He heard this accusation of cruelty with regret, and did not think they deserved it. They were also charged with avarice, and that was by some assigned as a cause for their severity. Now, he would ask one question—were the ordinary profits of capital increased by the exercise of severity? If not, avarice could not be the cause of severity. He did not think that home competition obliged master manufacturers to have recourse to harsh treatment; in
 1162 s s s
 Mr. Hume  stated, that he had himself received a petition from Walsall to the same effect as that which had been presented by the hon. member for Birmingham and which he (Mr. Hume) had delayed in bringing forward until he was aware that the hon. member for Walsall was in his place. The petition staled that the military were in the town before the polling, so that the statements now made were somewhat at variance. He should now abstain from saying more than to state that he should present the petition with which he had been intrusted to-morrow.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the accommodation which the hon. member for Truro wished for, was perfectly requisite as he had stated, and he would suggest a way
 1166 l l l l l
 Mr. Pease  declared that he should also resist the Motion. Party spirit had long been the bane of Ireland, and party spirit it was that had reduced that unhappy country to its present awful condition. He therefore hoped and entreated that the House would not countenance party measures, or agree to a Motion that would have the effect of easting a stigma on the religion of any portion of their fellow subjects.
 Mr. Pease  cordially supported the prayer of the petition. In his opinion, it imported much to the character of a Christian Legislature and a Christian nation to wipe off the stain of severity of punishment. The system, as at present existing, was at variance with the principles of the Christian religion. Why should a man convicted of murder, for instance, be executed within forty-eight hours after the sentence? Why should be, in so short a space, be called into the presence of Omnipotence, when the points of law on which his fate depended were often so doubtful as to require hours of discussion before the Judges could decide? He was sure that if more time were given, and the public mind allowed to dwell on the nature of the offence and the state of the criminal, that all feelings of revenge would give way to those of humanity and justice. The great object of punishment was terror and reform. The uncertainty of punishment removed the terror; and capital punishment, when it was inflicted, precluded the possibility of reform.
 Mr. Fryer  denied, that the avarice of the manufacturers had anything whatever to do with the question. The excessive labour of the children in factories was occasioned by the Corn-laws, and other such impositions on the labour of the people. When those taxes were repealed, he would cordially support any measure for diminishing the hours of labour from sixteen to ten, but, until that was done, any alteration would increase instead of amending the miseries of the labouring classes. The people of England had long called for a repeal of the Corn-laws; and he could tell the House that if they were not shortly repealed within the walls of Parliament, they would be so from without.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  deprecated the tone in which the hon. Member spoke. When the hon. Member talked of what the people would do out of doors, he ought to have recollected, that the question of the Corn-laws was one which could never be disposed of in such a manner without endangering a very serious change in the constitution of the country. It was a question at least fully equal to the comprehension of the hon. Member, and one which, unless he was much mistaken, would require the consideration of talent fully as great as the hon. Member could boast of. For his own part he did not think the poorer classes would be at all benefited by any change; but that was a point which he would not then discuss. As to the subject which formed the matter of the petitions before the House, he could only say, that he had always given his support to Mr. Sadler's Bill for reducing the number of labour hours to ten, and would continue to support any hon. Member who might take upon himself to introduce a similar measure in the present Parliament. Formerly it was stated, that the children in factories were only obliged to work twelve hours out of the twenty-four, and even that was deemed an excess; but it now appeared, on the confession of the hon. member for Wolverhampton, that sixteen was the number of labour hours—a confession which he thought ought to gain over many supporters to the contemplated measure.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  begged to state in explanation, that in the remarks he made he had not the slightest intention to throw any odium on the masters of factories.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought, that there were certain crimes to which society, in justice to itself, was bound to affix the penalty of death. It was a most dangerous doctrine to maintain that the Legislature had not the power of inflicting death. Society had a perfect right to act for its own protection; and the security of life and property often depended upon the terrors of capital punishment. At the same time he admitted, that it would be right to define, more accurately than was at present done, the crime of burglary. The penalty of death ought not to be attached to crimes which were not attended by violence or terror. He was of opinion that a general inquiry should be instituted into the nature and extent of our system of punishments; he was for a further mitigation of the criminal code, which was the most sanguinary in Europe; and, on that ground, he supported the petition.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  could assure the House that no one had a greater objection than he had to the Corn-laws. They were founded, he believed, on false principles, and had been and were the source of infinite mischief. He must be allowed however, to remind his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, that it was easier to discover the mote in another's eye than the beam in a man's own. His hon. friend charged an hon. Member (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson) with having a bias in favour of land. Now, perhaps, the hon. member for Middlesex had a similar bias in favour of money. Certain it was, that as the value of money had increased in this country, the relative value of land had fallen. The remarks of Members on all those subjects should be treated with candour and generosity. As to the question before the House, he did not deny that those poor children who were employed in factories were cruelly overworked, but let not that be charged on the masters. It was necessity—a grievous necessity—which obliged the masters to grind down those they employed. It was a stern necessity, like that which, in the language of the poet, had once existed in a town besieged.
 "Love, strong as death, retains its might no more, And the pale mother quaffs her children's gore."
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose to present a Petition from members of the Political Union of Birmingham, complaining of the interference of the Military Force during the late elections, and praying the House to declare all elections null and void which took place under the control of the military force. He would only say, that he had seen gross cases of interference on the part of the military. He had seen bodies of Infantry clear the streets, and troops of Cavalry ride up to the hustings, while the polling was going on, and where no breach of the peace had been committed, or any act which could warrant such conduct. He had seen good and peaceable persons attacked by the ferocious soldiery, and honest electors cut down by the cavalry, and die of the wounds which they received. He hoped that the House would do its duty, and protect the rights of the people of England from such uncalled-for and unconstitutional interference; but if that House refused to interfere, he hoped that the people of England would protect their own rights. He trusted, that the people of England would remember, that if their Representatives in that House refused to protect their rights, they could bear arms in their own defence. He hoped that if the House did not do its duty now, the electors would, on the next occasion when they were called on to exercise their rights come up to the hustings with loaded
 1167
 Mr. Thomas Attwood : The place to which I alluded, in which the infantry charged the people, and the cavalry rode up to the hustings, at a time when no breach of the peace had been committed, was the newly enfranchised borough of Walsall, in Staffordshire.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that in making the observations he had addressed to the House he had not alluded to the late election at Wolverhampton. [ Name, name
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was prepared to come to the bar of the House to show that the whole of the disturbances which had occurred had originated in the interference of the special constables, who had themselves broken the windows, and had also attacked children, and thereby excited the irritation of the parents.
 Mr. Sheppard  said, that he had made it his duty to inquire among the great manufacturers of the West of England, and he had found that no such exaggerated abuses existed as those so repeatedly mentioned of late. It would surprise those manufacturers very much to find themselves brought before that House as if they were criminals. He trusted that when the question was discussed, those clauses of the Bill would be modified that tended to interfere with the fair profits of the manufacturer. He admitted, that factory children were subjected to much hardship, but it was greatly exaggerated.
 Mr. Spring Rice  concurred with the hon. member for Birmingham in one observation which he had made. He hoped, as well as the hon. Member, that the people of England would never forget their rights. But he protested against the observations made by the hon. Member, which seemed to mean—if, indeed, they could be said to mean anything—that that House neglected the protection of the rights of the people of England. He objected, likewise, to his observations, because they assumed, that in case of improper military interference, either by order of the Magistrates or any other persons in authority, the people had no remedy. Now, it was known to all, that the proper quarter was always open to such complaints, and that, when made, they were never neglected. There was therefore, a constitutional remedy for such offences, and he thought it would be better and more becoming in the hon. Member to suggest to the people that constitutional remedy, than to suggest to them that that House neglected its duty to the people, and on that account that they should go to the hustings with loaded pistols and loaded rifles in defiance of the law of the land. Such doctrines, and such advice, were calculated to do much mischief out of doors. He thought it necessary to make these few remarks, as none of his Majesty's Ministers were present; and he could not permit the remarks of the hon. Member to pass unanswered.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that having been personally alluded to be felt it necessary to offer a few observations. Notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, he still entertained the opinion, that such a return as that for which the hon. and gallant Member had moved could not be obtained, for they all knew that parties were not required by law to state the religion to which they belonged. No return that was not certain could be useful, and it was very obvious that certain information was not to be obtained in the present instance. But there was another, and not a technical, ground on which he must resist the present Motion, and that was, that it would be manifestly invidious and unjust in its tendency. It could promote no real good, and would, in all probability, have the effect pf raising an unfair and unjust impression against that class of persons who formed the great majority in the chronicles of crime in Ireland. Crime for the most part was committed by the poor, they being most open to temptation, in consequence of their poverty: and as it was well known that the poor of Ireland belonged chiefly to one religion there could be no great occasion for the return now asked for, and therefore he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not persist in his Motion.
 Mr. Ewart  approved of the conduct of Government in sending out a gentleman to America to examine into the state of prison discipline in that country, and took the present opportunity of expressing his abhorrence of the barbarity of the existing game code.
 Mr. W. Tooke  presented a Petition from the Incorporated Society of Attorneys, Solicitors, Proctors, and others, practitioners of the law, not Barristers, praying the House would provide better accommodation for attorneys and others, whose vocations compelled their attendance at Judges' Chambers. The hon. Member observed, that at a period when improvements were taking place in every branch of the institutions of the country, the accommodations for the highest legal officers were totally overlooked; and it would scarcely be believed that the Chief Justice of England was compelled to transact all the important business which came under the denomination of chamber business in a room only eight feet high, twenty feet long, and twelve feet wide. The late member for Penryn, whom he regretted not to see in the present Parliament, presented a petition last Session on the subject. It was agreed on all sides that some better accommodation for the Judges was absolutely necessary; but the matter was put a stop to on the plea of economy—certainly, in this instance, unadvised economy. Though the subject might at first sight appear trivial to hon. Members who were not acquainted with the important affairs which came before the Judge in his chambers, he would beg to observe, that the public would derive considerable advantage if the prayer of the petition were granted, as the attorneys and solicitors would be enabled to accelerate the progress and settlement of the suits intrusted to them, by being able to bring them, in many cases, before the Judge, and by being allowed to settle them on motion before that functionary, which, from the confined and inconvenient nature of the place where they were obliged to attend, it was, at present, impossible for them to do.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the advantages enjoyed by the officers of the Navy, to whom the hon. Member alluded, did not equal those possessed by officers of the same rank in the army, and it was in some degree, to equalize them, that these appointments had been granted.
 The Solicitor General  concurred with the views of the hon. Members opposite, but thought they had forgotten how much had already been done. Even in the last Session of Parliament, the punishment of death was abolished in cases of cattle-stealing, and horse-stealing, in some cases of forgery, and in coining, which till then was considered as high treason. He admitted that the law, in respect of capital punishments, was capable of still further improvement, notwithstanding the many amendments recently introduced. He had attended to the subject, and he was of opinion that capital punishment should not be inflicted unless in cases of violence. The hon. Member, he thought, went too far in the principles which he laid down; and he would put it to him whether, if attacked by a robber, he should not, in defence of his life and property, take the assailant's life? If, then, a private citizen had the right in such a case to take away life, why should not the State, for the general good, have the same? He wished, however, not to be understood as opposed to all mitigation in the law as it then stood; but he wished such improvements to be effected by cautious and gradual means alone. The petition, however, seemed to have been drawn up by a person who had been asleep for the last ten years, and, therefore, knew nothing of the late changes.
 Sir John Hobhouse  had no objection to the Return, part of which, indeed, the hon. Member might find if he looked into the Army List. There were some parts of the Return now asked for, which it might be difficult to obtain, but which he would endeavour to procure, though to do so he must make a personal, rather than an official application to the individuals themselves.
 Sir John Tyrell  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and in doing so, he should take the opportunity of making one observation. The question he wished to put was, whether his Majesty's Government had it in contemplation to introduce any measure into that House, to afford a legal provision for the poor of Ireland? The observation with which he wished to accompany this question was, that it could not but appear strange to all men who observed the course of parties in that House, that whilst
 1149
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that he had been requested by the petitioners to support the prayer of this petition. They felt deeply the injustice of the law about to be enforced, which, instead of being founded on deliberate inquiry and calm investigation, had been determined on without any necessity for it. Instead of inquiring into the state of the country, and remedying the grievances that afflicted it, they were putting down argument by force, by a despotic law, that was more fit for Algiers than for any civilised country in Europe. Ireland was threatened with Bastiles by a damnable and detestable measure, which Englishmen would never sanction if they had a proper knowledge of Ireland or of Irishmen. Ireland was governed by an absentee Governor, a Secretary who seldom favoured it with his presence. He was ge-  1183
 Mr. Halse  would answer the appeal made to him by the hon. Member on the presentation of this petition from Mr. Mackworth Praed. The resolution alluded to in the petition, with respect to the purchase of goods for the mine, was one that had been agreed to by the proprietors, in 1830; and, although printed then, or in 1831, had never been acted upon in any single instance. At a public meeting on the occasion of the recent election, this resolution was alluded to; and it was only then that he (Mr. Halse) recollected its existence. Among the circumstances which occurred at the late election which was the subject of the petition was a speech made by Mr. Praed, in which that Gentleman spoke of his property and income; including in the latter an average of 50 l l l 1185
 Mr. Halse : I must state most positively that the petitioner said, upon the hustings that he had applied for the interest of Lord Lauderdale, and added, "I confess I have failed." For my own part, I most solemnly declare, in answer to the statement of the hon. Gentleman, that I was never present at the reading of the notice to which he alludes, except when it was read upon the hustings, nor was it, that I am aware of, ever read in the mine, except once in the year 1830. I protest, in a manner equally solemn, that I used no undue influence to procure my return. Indeed it was not necessary for me to canvass the borough after July or August, and at the close of the election I had upwards of 100 majority over Mr. Praed.
 Mr. O'Connell  had been requested to support this petition. He considered the Jury Laws now in contemplation were a mere mockery. Last year they might have been of use, but now, when three or five young ensigns were to have all the power thrown into their own hands, of what avail would any amendment be in the Jury Laws? The thing was a mockery on the country altogether. If such an atrocious and abominable measure were carried through that House, of what use was it to amend the Jury Laws? He would not, in such a case, like to be in the situation of English Members when they again went before their constituents. If they could sit in their seats while such an abominable and atrocious measure was going through the House, they would well deserve the fate they were likely to meet with on that occasion, for a spirit had grown up amongst the people in direct contradiction to the way in which Members were now acting. The present was, at all events, a most premature period, at which even to talk of a Jury Bill for Ireland, when Trial by Jury itself was about to be abolished in that country.
 Mr. O'Connell  would beg to trespass for one moment on the patience of the House. Those gentlemen who were taking the most prominent part in the present requisition for an alteration of the law on that subject, had explained to him, satisfactorily, their objects; and these exactly conformed with those which the hon. Gentleman had stated. They did not wish, they said, to interfere with the afternoon innocent recreations of the Sunday; but solely to do away with the tyranny by which individuals who followed certain trades on that day, endeavoured to compel, even against their consciences, persons in their employment to commit a violation of the Sabbath. The prayer of the petition had, therefore, his humble and most strenuous concurrence.
 An Hon. Member  asked what good it would do to give unreclaimed portions of land to the poor, as had been successfully done in many parts of England, if they did not work them after hours? This met the hon. member for Oldham's assertion of the necessity of working of a Sunday morning. Besides, in most cases, this ground was given by the parochial authorities on the express condition that it should not be worked on the Sabbath; yet, even on those conditions, it was a boon which the poor man eagerly sought, and through which he prospered.
 Mr. Hodgson  thought the hon. member for Oldham was entering too soon upon the nature of the proposed measure. If a measure was to be introduced for the better observance of the Sabbath, it ought to have general support. Before the House condemned a proposed measure of this sort, they ought, in the first place, to know its exact nature. When it should be introduced, it should have his best attention, and he thought it might be so framed as not unnecessarily to interfere between master and servant, so as to prevent the proper recreation of the latter.
 An Hon. Member , in reference to the assertion that the tithes in Ireland had been transferred by Act of Parliament from the Catholics to the Protestants, said, he believed there was no such Act in existence; if there were, he should be glad to know where to find it. Certain
 1194
 Mr. Hill  believed there was no such Act; indeed none was necessary, for the Catholic clergy of that day became convinced of their Catholic errors, the very moment that the head of the Church—the King—became convinced. The Catholic clergy then suddenly became Protestants, and those who had enjoyed the tithes as Catholics received them as Protestants. With respect to the abolition of tithes, many persons, himself among the rest, believed that they came mainly from the pockets of the landlord, and that a total abolition of them would not be in favour of the poorer classes, but would go to the landlord, who would then have the whole value of the land, instead of six or seven-tenths, as at present. That might be a fallacy—it might be erroneous, but many eminent men had strong opinions upon it. With respect to remunerating the clergy, he should vote for paying them In a different manner from that now adopted. The use of the Church was to teach the great doctrines of religion; and it was most unfortunate that there was a mode of payment which put the clergyman and his parishioners in opposition to each other, and rendered the latter much less inclined than they should be to seek the excellent advice of the former.
 An Hon. Member  said, that the tenant, and not the landowner, would profit by the abolition of tithes. Tithes were made up partly of the produce of the land, and partly of labour. In fact, labour entered chiefly into the composition of tithes; and hence it must be manifest, that it was the tenant, and not the landowner, who sustained the burthen of this impost.
 An Hon. Member  begged to enter his protest against the doctrine of spoliation used by the petition. He considered the Church of Ireland had as much right to its property as any gentleman in England had to his estate. There was no individual who paid tithes that was entitled to retain them, so that if they were taken away from the Church to-morrow they would go to the State. He trusted, however, that both the Churches of England and Ireland were placed on too firm a basis to be shaken by every breath that blew. The generality of Dissenters agreed with the doctrines of the Church of England; they only differed from it in form and ceremony. Why, then, did they petition for its spoliation?
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he was at a loss to understand what purpose could be answered by the hon. Gentleman's Motion. He must confess, that he had listened to the hon. Gentleman with surprise, and
 1202 1203 exposé loud cheering]. renewed cheers 1204
 Mr. O'Connell  entreated his hon. friend the member for Cashel to withdraw his Motion, as they would have ample time for discussing the details of the bill in constitutional form by the rules and orders of the House. It was much better that they should go at once to the measure, rather than waste their time in desultory conversation, and more especially as his hon. friend's Motion had in fact been refused. The grounds of that refusal must have appeared very unsatisfactory to the House. It had been said, that his hon. friend had made no selection of the papers he wished to have laid on the Table. This was undoubtedly the case, but how easily might that defect be rectified. The right hon. Secretary, instead of making particular instances an exception, had in fact made an exception the general rule on the present occasion. The right hon. Gentleman had showed them a box filled with papers, but by whom were those papers stuffed into that box? And were they not placed there in the absence of those to whom they related and the friends of Ireland! The question of further information had been brought forward and was rejected. He would not, however, utter a complaint on the subject, but atonce go into the discussion of the merits of the Bill, in order to show the right hon. Secretary that freemen would not shrink from accepting the challenge which he had given to the friends of Ireland, and with such an air of presumption, even though he threw into the scale as a make-weight that the continuance of the present Government in office depended on the success of this measure. That the present Government did not deserve the confidence of the Irish people he would assert, and that they were equally undeserving of that of the people of England would before long appear.
 1210
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that though be was satisfied nothing but a conscientious feeling of duty had induced the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to bring forward the Bill now under consideration, yet he (Mr. Tennyson) must confess, that the noble Lord had entirely failed in persuading him, that the ordinary exercise of the laws of the land would not be sufficient to put an end to the disturbances in Ireland. He had stated on a former occasion his readiness to grant additional powers, if necessary, to Government, to maintain peace in Ireland, and he was now ready to redeem that pledge; but he was not satisfied that the measure proposed was necessary to effect the object contemplated. He (Mr. Tennyson) had always understood that the Special Commissions sent by Government into the disturbed counties had been successful in producing tranquillity. He had never heard, that they had failed until he heard it now stated by the noble Lord. If the Special Commissions had failed, however, why had it not been so stated by the Government before the close of the last Session? The threats which were
 1228 1229 peine forte et dure 1230 Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Stanley , although he had never presented himself to the House with deeper feelings of regret and anxiety of mind, yet he must also say, that he had never presented himself to their attention with a more complete expectation and belief that if any hon. Gentleman had experienced a doubt as to the necessity for the application of some strong or arbitrary measure in Ireland for the repression of disturbance, whether prædial or political in its origin, for the protection of life and property, for the maintenance of good order and an established government—he said, if any Gentleman yet doubted the necessity for such a measure, he entertained a
 1251 1252 1253 1254 A cry answered by a very general cry of Such outrages, however, are now so common, that I merely give this detail, to show that any ordinary individual exertion is perfectly futile, if not altogether foolhardy, and to take the occasion of at least performing what I consider my duty, in earnestly calling the attention of Government to a state of outrage of which this is but a very slight and every-day example, but which has already attained a height of organization wholly subversive of all good order, and has spread a degree of too well-founded terror, which drives the many to embrace the criminal security which alone seems to be left to them of joining the lawless crew, whilst the few, who still wish to stand aloof, are doing so at the imminent and constant peril of their lives, unaided by any tangible law, unprotected by any present arm of power. I have seen the honest, and heretofore bold peasant, weep like a child, because his honest courage only doomed him to destruction; whilst, on the other hand, the less honest scruple not to procure their comparative safety, by relinquishing whatever better grace they may have left, and joining, always by oath, often by deed, the lawless gang. 1255 I am sorry to say that the county is in a horrible state of excitement, in consequence of the unlimited power of our new legislators—" the Whitefeet."——'s son was visited last night by some armed ruffians, who severely beat the poor man, because he dared to dig my potatoes after the notice to the contrary. They desired him to go to his father, and order him, on his peril, not to follow any of my cattle till the quarter, ground, &c. was settled. They then went to several of the tenants, and swore them not to attempt to work for me. I saw——, with his head tied up, and the mark of a point of á bayonet in his thigh. On the same night——was severely beaten, and, while on his knees, one scoundrel kicked him in the throat. I saw him yesterday, in bed; he had just been blooded by the doctor, and could with difficulty speak. The only reason they gave was, because he gave up his arms to his landlord, and did not keep them for their honours. You have no idea of the fright that——'s family are in; girls crying, and all in the greatest consternation and dread of the Whitefeet visiting them again, when they are certain of being murdered.——'s brother, at——, was visited a few nights ago, early in the evening, and they were not afraid to fire several shots so near the police-barracks! I would not comply with their wishes and turn off my men to please such incendiaries; I valued my stock, and sent them back to my land, where they have been without a herd ever since. Now, they have ordered the gate to be built up to prevent my cattle going to water; they have beaten the herd and his brother so, that their heads were nearly fractured: at the same time they were obliged to drive home my cattle. They used my nephew's herd in like manner, and also broke his ribs about ten days ago, and now the inclosed shows you how they have used his son. All I can say is, that the country is in a state of rebellion, and that you will not find a Kilkenny Jury to convict a murderer. I am told by a man, who says he owes all he is worth to me, and would be ungrateful
 1256 A banditti of ruffians, amounting to about thirty, broke in the sashes of nine houses, last night, on my estate. The occupiers of these houses are tenants and labourers of mine, most quiet and industrious poor men—in truth, the more respectable the man, the more liable is he to be attacked. I find that seventy-three panes of glass were broken, with many sashes; some doors were injured. I have been in the houses, and have seen several stones thrown in, which weigh six pounds; and had any of these struck the inmates, the consequence might, in all probability, have proved fatal. None of the offenders can be identified, but could they, whoever might give evidence in such a case, would be murdered. Such is the existing state of society in this unfortunate country, out of which every civilized man in lower life is escaping to America, who can afford to depart. 1257 1258 1259 At nine o'clock this morning, an express arrived to inform me that the rev. George Houston, rector of Feighcullen, had been shot, about one hour before, on the road, near his own glebe-house. I hastened to the spot, and
 1260 1261 I beg to inform you, that about eleven o'clock on last night, an armed party, of about twenty five men, set fire to, and attacked the house of Edward Maddocks, of Townferney, in the barony of Bauley, where sub-constables, Fife and Wright, were stationed to protect a thatched house, by a Magistrate's order. To save themselves from being burned to death they went out of the house, when the ruffians fired at, and murdered the following persons—namely, sub-constable Wright, who died almost instantly; Edward Maddocks, his daughter, and wife, who lived about two hours; one of his sons, who received two balls in the chest, is still alive, but no hopes are entertained of his recovery. A man, named John Redmond, who was dispossessed about three years ago of Maddocks' land, is charged, on the dying declaration of Mrs. Maddocks, as being one of the party. This letter was signed by the chief constable, W.F. Coghlan. 1262 1263
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was ready to state the very expressions he had used at the meeting alluded to by the right hon. Secretary [ cries of " and
 Mr. Stanley  said, that if the House would only be pleased to bear with him for a few moments, he should conclude the observations he had found it necessary to make on that occasion, and then the hon. and learned member for Dublin would have a full and ample opportunity of entering into any explanation he might deem necessary as to what took place on the occasion alluded to. He would deal fairly with the House and with the hon. and learned Member; and, indeed, he should feel that he was not discharging his duty if he did not give the hon. and learned Member an opportunity of disclaiming the observations imputed to him, if he had the power of doing so. When that House went before their Sovereign on the opening of Parliament, they not only asked, but demanded the right of free and unquestioned discussion upon all matters before them; they demanded that discussion should be unrestrained, and without control; and there was no modern instance of any Sovereign having attempted to deny the fullest exercise of that right. This, then, had been the pride and boast of that House, Would it not, then, be too much, on the part of any Member of that House, to assume a power which the Sovereign himself dared not exercise?
 1289 an expression of dissent from Mr. O'Connell 1290
 Mr. O'Connell : I do certainly.
 Mr. Stanley  proceeded: Then he would put it to the House, in the abused and prostituted name of national liberty, whether any more flagrant violation of freedom of speech and freedom of thought ever came before it? Did any noisy spouter about popular rights, any frothy declaimer about popular liberty, ever put forward so flimsy a veil as that with which it was endeavoured to hide a most tyrannical interference of an illegitimate and unconstitutional power over the votes of Parliament? Could there be anything more outrageous than such an appeal—an appeal not to the constituency of hon. Members—an appeal not to those to whom alone they were responsible for their votes, but to a self-constituted Volunteer Association, which was to spread its mighty arms over the whole of Ireland—bringing all within its grasp, and subjecting everything to its uncontrolled dominion? He had now stated the case at length, but he trusted not more at length than the necessity of the case justified. He had distinctly separated the predial from the political agitation—. the outrages upon life and property, from those upon civil and constitutional liberty—which were a necessary consequence of the system which existed there. He now called upon them in the name of liberty—as they valued constitutional rights and legal privileges—as they wished to see property, nay, life itself secure—as they wished to protect honest and peaceable subjects against a system of violence and predial outrage—as they wished to exercise freely and fully their ever undoubted rights—at once to denounce this vile attempt to destroy, under the mask of liberty, every germ of an unbiassed and independent public opinion. He called on them, by their vote that night, to sanction the declaration, that they would rather infringe for a time upon the laws, than suffer all liberty, all law, all constitutional rights, all security for life and property to be absolved—as it must be,
 1291
 Captain Berkeley  believed, that no man in that House could give his assent to the Bill before them, except he concurred in opinion with the noble Lord—that the increase of crime in Ireland was somehow connected with the existence and growth of political associations there. Now he had been induced to go over to Ireland through motives of amusement, and became, as he had reason to believe, intimately acquainted with the habits and feelings of the people. In order to establish that position, he would mention a few facts which happened to him in the county of Kilkenny within the last three years. During the first part of his residence in that country, the amusement of fox-hunting, which he occasionally followed, brought him often in contact with the people. He was frequently benighted in the most dreary and lonely situations, and occasionally he lost his way, but he felt himself, even when benighted, quite at his ease; and never hesitated, nor had the least fear, however lonely the place, or wretched the hovel, to go up and inquire his way to Woodstock, the seat of his hospitable and popular friend Mr. Tighe. The merely mentioning that he was a friend of Mr. Power, of Kilfane, was to himself a passport, and a source of immediate protection and safeguard. He was sure that many Irish Gentlemen in the House would bear him out in saying, that there was no better landlord or better man in Ireland than Mr. Tighe, or a more generous landlord than Mr. Power. He would prefer being benighted in Ireland at that time, to experiencing the same accident in many parts of England. This was in 1829. But then came 1830 and 1831, when the noble Lord now at the head of the Woods and Forests vacated his seat on account of taking office. Till that time agitation had not reached the county of Kilkenny; but soon afterwards the county was overrun with agitators not belonging to the county, who endeavoured to rouse the people to petition for the Repeal of the Union. At his former election, the noble Lord was drawn in his carriage by the populace for ten miles to Thomastown. This was
 1247 from Mr. O'Connell. 1248
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to second the Motion. He trusted the House would afford him the opportunity of freeing himself from an impression which had been made against him by what had appeared in the public Press. All that he desired was fair play. He certainly had read the report to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded. He had read two other reports, in neither of which was the exceedingly offensive passage to be found. When he read the report in question, his first sensation was one of merriment; he thought it exceedingly ludicrous that such a thing should be attributed to him. He would state the fact to the House, and if he had done wrong let them condemn him. He meant not to disguise or mitigate one word, and he would readily admit, that from what he did say on that occasion, he was not at all surprised at the mistakes which the reporter had fallen into. He did say enough to lead him into that mistake. The object in his mind was those bills, and he was speaking of Universal Suffrage, and the injustice, on constitutional principles, of any man being taxed who was not represented. He said, that the injustice from individuals might be punished by law, but that no punishment could be inflicted if that injustice were carried into execution by 600. He then went on, as was not uncommon in speaking, to further illustrate his position, but without intending any connexion between them, to say, that if one scoundrel attempted to rob you, you might resist him by physical force, but if 600 did so, then you could not resist them. They might condemn it; and in his cool moments he certainly would have taken care so to have expressed himself as to have avoided all possibility of mistake. In the heat of speaking, it was not unfrequent to fall into mistakes. He now, in that House, re-asserted both the things which he had then said. He asserted, in that House, that you might resist and punish one person, who meant to rob you, but
 1292
 Mr. Baldwin  wished to offer a few observations on the plan proposed by the hon. Gentleman. It was evident that, if compensation were to be made by the slaves
 1181
 Sir John Byng  observed, that he had enjoyed many years of happiness for which he was wholly indebted to Ireland, and for which he felt that he could never make any adequate return. He was also connected with that country by ties of birth and property, which circumstances would prevent him from listening with apathy or indifference to any measures which might be proposed for her better government. He might, therefore, with great reason, assert, that he was extremely reluctant to admit the necessity for adopting such a measure as that which the noble Lord had brought forward; but notwithstanding this, so reluctantly disposed as he was to take so desponding a view of the condition of Ireland as was taken by the noble Lord, he was sorry to say, that he considered the present measure to be but too necessary for the preservation and protection of life and property in that country. Although it was said, that the reports which the Government had received from Ireland relative to her actual state were greatly exaggerated, the House ought to recollect, that the Government did not receive these reports exclusively from the police officers or the Magistrates, but that those reports were confirmed by the accounts received from military officers stationed in Ireland of known intelligence, and whose testimony was perfectly unpre-
 * 1240 1241
 Lord John Russell  said, that he apprehended, according to the new rules of the House, the hon. Member could not move the printing of the petition. At the same time, should the hon. Member be disposed to bring the subject before the House in a regular way, without saying anything at present about the merits of the question, he should have his best assistance.
 Lord John Russell  was not prepared to enter into the various questions which had been brought under discussion during the presentation of a petition. Questions of the most difficult nature both with regard to practical policy, and abstract reasoning, concerning the nature of Church property, and concerning the present position of Ireland, and questions respecting her landed interests and her social condition, had been discussed by Gentlemen, without confining themselves very much to any particular line of argument, so that any one point might be clearly debated, and the House be enabled to come to a definite opinion upon it. His wish was rather to put it to the House, whether it would conduce to the attainment of the great object of presenting petitions—(namely, ascertaining the wishes of the people), that these speculative inquiries should, on such occasions, be entered upon, or discussed? The example just set by the hon. member for Oldham, and the hon. and learned member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil), afforded little hope that such discussion would lead to any practical or beneficial result. He deprecated the discussion raised by the hon. member for Oldham, and the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, on the question. He should briefly notice a few inconsistencies in the statements of both. If he understood the hon. member for Oldham right, he had said, that three-fourths of the tithes of Ireland were in the hands of the laity; but what said the hon. member for Tipperary? He said, that 600,000 l l 1199
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  had no wish at that time to enter on any defence of the principle on which the petition presented by him was founded. He would only say, that those hon. Members who had made such extraordinary remarks as he had heard, did not take such pains with the subject as he had taken. He would also add, that if they waited for a few days, the whole measure would be then before the House, and they could discuss it at length and at leisure.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  presented a Pe
 1189
 Mr. O'Dwyer  observed, that the hon. Member's arguments with respect to tithes would have suited very well some thirty or forty years since, when they might have made some impression. He had observed that the tithes had been transferred, by Act of parliament, from the Catholics to the Protestants. If an Act of Parliament had transferred it in one ease from Catholic to Protestant, an Act of Parliament could again transfer it from the present possessors to other purposes. The hon. Member must also recollect, that the former possessors of the tithes had certain trusts to perform which were not attached to the present possessors of tithes. They sustained the fabric of the churches, and supported the poor. He would strongly recommend the hon. Member, before he talked of spoliation, to advocate the appropriation of Church property to its original purpose. The great extent of Church property in Ireland had never been intended to provide the people only with religious instruction, but to provide for them all that was necessary to it. He would advise his Majesty's Ministers, now that they had taken up the Church Reform, to introduce something like a satisfactory plan. He believed that the Irish people would never be satisfied with it. Ministers might do away with eight or ten bishoprics, but that would be of little use. Sir William Petty had said, many years ago, when the Catholics were not so numerous as at the present time, and the Protestants were more numerous, that two Bishops were enough
 1193
 Mr. Harvey  said, that it was not right in any hon. Gentleman to state that he had
 1187
 Mr. Harvey  said, every scheme having the emancipation of the West-India slaves for its object was entitled certainly to the serious consideration of that House. At the same time, he thought the hon. Gentleman who introduced the present scheme to its notice had confounded emancipation with compensation; and made them go together, or rather, had made the one to precede the other. Now, in every well-devised plan for the purpose of emancipation, the former should precede the latter, which was not the case in the one introduced and supported by the hon. Member. As to the plan itself, he (Mr. Harvey) would just say one word. Bad as it would be to make the people of these countries pay the planters for their emancipated slaves, as shown by the hon. member for Oldham, the project of making the slaves pay the price of their own redemption was still worse. The owners of the slaves, as they irreligiously called themselves, would no doubt submit some similar proposition to the House, but in his opinion, if any persons were entitled to compensation it was the slaves themselves.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer , I shall accept the hint of the noble Lord, and take the least dispassionate, if not the most Constitutional, view of the argument. I shall leave it to others to oppose these laws, because they are tyrannical and oppressive. I will oppose them on the ground to which the noble Lord invited me, because they will be inefficacious—because they will not obtain the objects for which they are demanded. Hon. Members must not suppose, because I or other English Members oppose these laws, that they deny the crimes that exist in Ireland—or that they are unwilling to cooperate with Government in devising some remedy for those offences. What we complain of is—first, that these powers will not contain the remedy; and, secondly, that even if they did, the remedy will be worse than the disease. I contend that the remedy is worse than the disease—a violation of law is a terrible evil—a suspension of law is a still greater one. It is useless to read a catalogue of crime—that is not the question—prove to us how these laws will be applied to the crime—it is useless to tell us, that in the present system there is evil and danger; prove to us that there will be less evil and less danger in the law you demand. I say these laws will not obtain their object—in the first place, what are the crimes for which the noble Lord demands them? Not for ordinary offences—no, for the crime of murder. It was instances of murder that the noble Lord had adduced. Will it be believed, that murder is the very crime these laws do not embrace? Your Court Martial is to sit upon capital offences, but can only transport for life. Murder is not a transportable offence. It does not receive, then, its sentence from the Court to be established. You deal only with subordinate offences—you attack the misdemeanor, and you leave the crime. Again, what is the great grievance complained of by the noble Lord in the administration of justice? That the witness dares not give evidence in a Court of law—that a son shrinks from arraigning the murderer of his own father. A terrible proof of the disorder to which a legislation of long and unvaried coercion has brought that unfortunate country. I join in lamenting it—I will join in devising cures for it; but there is no cure for this contemplated in your new powers. The witness would be exposed to exactly the
 1232 1233 1234 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 *
 Mr. O'Connor  presented a Petition from the members of the King's County Political Union against the Grand-Jury System in Ireland, and praying for an Amendment in the system.
 Mr. Grote  said, that it was not without considerable reluctance he presented himself to the notice of the House. He sincerely regretted to find himself for the third time compelled to support an Amendment upon a Motion of one of the members of the Government; but he nevertheless could not shrink from performing his duty. He could not help commenting on a measure which the noble mover of it
 1242 1243 1244 esprit de corps 1245 Habeas Corpus 1246
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that it was with the deepest regret, that he listened, night after night, to those attacks on English Members by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. The interests of Ireland were as dear to English Members as they were to the hon. and learned Member himself. He begged to tell that hon. and learned Gentleman, that when the measure, to which he had alluded, came before the House, he would attend to it both at large and in detail; and, notwithstanding the taunts thrown out by the hon. and learned Member, he would do his duty upon it, and he believed, in so speaking for himself, he spoke for nine-tenths of the English Members.
 Mr. Barron  said, that he would plead guilty to the charge that his ancestors had enjoyed a great portion of Church property, but they supported the poor. He charged the Protestant Clergy with a gross violation of their oaths; for they had left the people uneducated, and had thereby driven them to poverty, misery, and crime. The Protestant Establishment of Ireland was triple, nay quintuple, what was necessary for the Protestant population. Church property was originally intended for the instruction of the people, and he asked how had the holders of it fulfilled their trust? With respect to the measure of Church Reform in Ireland, it did Ministers great credit, for he believed they had gone as far as they could. But if they wished for the prosperity of that country, they must adopt some speedy means of appropriating the tithes in Ireland to the support of the poor, and the education of the people. However strong or effcacious the measures of Ministers might be—although they might put down violence and tumult for the moment, it would only be for the moment, unless they educated the people, and supported the poor. He was sorry that the noble Lord (Althorp) was not in his place; but, perhaps, some Gentleman on the Treasury Bench could answer a question, upon which several of his constituents wished to have information. They wished to ascertain what the intentions of Government were with regard to what was termed ministers' Money? He did not know how that was regulated in England, but in Ireland the money was collected according to some ancient valuations, and in some parts, particularly in the city of Waterford, which he represented, many houses were valued at 10 l l l
 Mr. Henry Grattan  presented a Petition from the parish of St. Michael and St. John, Dublin, against the coercive measure of Government with reference to Ireland. Also a petition from King's Court Political Union, against Vestry-cess and Tithes; and another from Navan to the same effect. The petition of the first named place stated, that they had read with astonishment and alarm that the first act of a Reformed Parliament was the putting down disturbances in Ireland, not by inquiring into grievances which existed with a view to remedying them, but by opposing the voice of the whole people, and suppressing the right of petition. The petitioners protested against any portion of the King's subjects being deprived of their just rights. They stated their opinion, that bad effects would result from administering justice by means of cannon and bayonets, instead of remedial measures; and from the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Roe  said, before the measure was brought forward which stood for this evening, he begged leave to submit a Motion to the House for the production of official papers relative to the disturbances in Ireland. He could not see how it would be possible for his Majesty's Ministers to resist the production of the papers referred to in his Motion. He had been a Magistrate of the county of Tipperary for the last seventeen years, and he could, without fear of contradiction, assert that many of the statements respecting outrages in Ireland had been grossly exaggerated. He could also say, that correct information on the subject of the state of that country could easily be obtained, and that there were many gentlemen ready, in all parts of Ireland, who, to his knowledge, would not have the least hesitation to appear at the bar of that House and give their evidence. It was idle, therefore, to say that persons were deterred from speaking the truth
 1200 Question 1201 Question. Question.
 Mr. Roe  consented to withdraw his Motion. He hoped that people from the other side of the water would not be considered as Arabs in the sight of those who were here. He threw back the defiance that had been uttered by the right hon. Secretary. As a man whose wife and family and property were all now in the country that was to be the subject of these measures—as one having everything that he held dear in that country—he wished for the information that the papers he had moved for contained. He had no improper motives in asking for these papers, and only wished to obtain the best information on this important subject. He trusted, that the House would do justice to his country, and not only to his country but to themselves, for it was only through the side of his country that they could be struck at.
 Mr. Hawkins : In answer to the observation of the hon. member for Colchester, I beg to state that I have the affidavit in my pocket.
 Mr. Hawkins  said, that with regard to the application made to Lord Lauderdale, he was instructed by the petitioner to deny that he ever applied to his Lordship about this business at all. He applied to him not to request his assistance, nor even to ask him to remain neuter, or to forbear giving expression to his own wishes in any way he might think proper; but simply to disclaim any participation in this notice, and to make a public promise that, so far as he was concerned, no person should suffer any loss of business, or sustain any inconvenience, in consequence of the vote he might give at the ensuing election. He again denied, that the petitioner ever asked his Lordship for his support. Upon this application being made, however, his Lordship distinctly refused to state what he was asked, or to promise what he was called upon for. The petition, however, was chiefly directed against the hon. member for St. Ives. He (Mr. Hawkins) had in his possession the affidavit of a person who had been the manager of the mines spoken of for upwards of two years, in which he distinctly swore, that this notice had been twice read in the mine by the desire of the hon. Member, and, that, upon one occasion, at least, he was present while it was read. He further swore, that the hon. Member and Lord Lauderdale were proprietors of the majority of shares of the mines. The petitioner having failed in the application, he (Mr. Halse) had stated he had made to Lord Lauderdale, then drew up a strongly worded declaration, pledging the candidates not to exercise any undue influence over the voters, and not to visit them with any species of persecution, in consequence of the votes they might give; which he called upon the hon. Member to sign, adding, at the same time, that if the hon. Member could prove, that he (Mr. Praed) had been guilty of any intimidation, either by himself or any person concerned foy him, he would give up the advantages he had, and at once withdraw from the contest. This declaration was signed by Mr. Praed, but the hon. Member opposite distinctly
 1186
 Mr. Hawkins  had been intrusted with a petition to which he begged to call the attention of the House, because it involved a complaint of a gross interference with the freedom of election, and a determined violation of the privileges of Parliament. The petition contained a grave and serious attack upon the characters of two individuals—one a Member of that House, and the other a peer of the realm. The hon. Member referred to was now in his place, and he (Mr. Hawkins) hoped to hear from him a satisfactory explanation of the circumstances detailed in the petition, as if not, he should feel it his duty to move that it be printed, with a view to further proceedings. The petition was that of William Mackworth Praed, Esq., of the Inner Temple, barrister-at-law, candidate for the borough of St. Ives at the last election, and stated that at and previous to the late election, from circumstances which transpired, fears had been entertained that such persons as voted for the petitioner would, if labourers, lose their employment, and if shopkeepers, their customers; that in a mine in the neighbourhood of the borough, notice had been given, forbidding the miners employed therein from dealing with or holding any intercourse with the inhabitants of the town, on pain of being expelled the mine. The notice was set out at length in the petition, and purported to have been an order issued by the proprietors of the mine, and forbade all the labourers from dealing with those shopkeepers who were opposed to the interests of the mine, on pain of expulsion and the forfeiture of any wages then due, on proof of such dealing being made before two agents of the mine. Such was the system of intimidation carried on at the late election, and of this notice use had been
 1184
 Mr. Wilks  could not agree with the hon. member for Oldham in the principles he had laid down. In consequence of the farmers not paying their labourers till late of a Saturday night, these had to come to the towns adjacent to their dwellings to purchase most of those articles necessary to their existence for the ensuing day. The towns were therefore crowded. After they had made all their purchases, they adjourned to the alehouses, and spent the surplus in drink and debauchery. In consequence, these towns exhibited scenes of profligacy every Sunday almost unparalleled.
 Mr. Bernal  was sorry, that such a discussion should be provoked on the mere presentation of a petition. He regretted that the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Colchester were of that nature which called for comment; so unlike those which he (Mr. Bernal) should have expected from his plain, practical, working sense. He regretted that that hon. Gentleman should be led to join in a cry against that injured and unfortunate body of men, the West-India planters. If their property was originally unjustly acquired, was it the fault of the present possessors. Was not its possession sanctioned by the Legislature of the country for successive ages? Was it fair, then, he (Mr. Bernal) would ask, for the hon. member for Oldham to come forward at this precise period, and assist to excite a feeling, and raise a cry, already so strong and so loud against them? He asked that hon. Gentleman, was that the way in which the question should be met? Or was it by discarding prejudice and viewing it calmly? When the question came fairly before the House, all he would ask from that hon. Gentleman was fair play, and from the assembly its calm and impartial consideration; an absence of invective and intemperance on the one side, he would
 1182
 Mr. Godson : The principle of these calculations was, to make the produce of the labour of the slaves pay the price of their emancipation by the end of a certain period. They would be working for themselves, therefore, and consequently no part of the indemnity which the planters would obtain would be necessarily derived from taxes on the people of these countries. He hoped that every hon. Gentleman who opposed the adoption of the plan proposed by the petitioner, would first make himself acquainted with its nature. He objected to the expression made use of by the hon. member opposite, the member for Oldham, when he said, in reference to that and similar plans, that they would serve as amusement to the House. He (Mr. Godson) thought the thing of too serious a nature to be treated so lightly. He was of opinion that every thing pertaining to the question of slavery should be laid before the House, to the end that it might see which was the best mode of solving the difficulty which the case presented.
 Mr. Godson  presented a Petition from Mr. James Window, of Westminster, to which he
 1179
 Mr. Sheil  rose, amidst cries of "O'Connell," and "state, state," which continued for several minutes. As soon as the hon. Member could be heard, he said, that, at that late hour, he thought they could not do better than adjourn the debate, and he rose to move an adjournment accordingly [cries for Mr. O'Connell again renewed].
 Mr. Sheil  could not agree with some of the statements, as to matters of fact, made by the noble Lord, who did not appear to see the evidence of the learned divine (Dr. Doyle) in the same light as he (Mr. Sheil). It was not of a parish that the evidence had been given, but of an archdiocese. The hon. member for Oldham was not correct in his calculation of the respective amount of tithes possessed in Ireland by the laity and the clergy. The former were possessed of only 100,000 l l l l 1198
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman was bound to produce evidence to justify his arbitrary and coercive measure before a bill of this description was brought forward; for, in his humble opinion, inquiry should precede severity. This had been the practice of former Parliaments, and hoped so desirable a precedent would be followed in this, a Reformed Parliament, before the liberties of any of his Majesty's subjects were infringed upon. He thought that before they proceeded to pass a Bill of so rigorous a character they ought to have a Report of a Committee before them. A temporary suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 1205 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus * Habeas Corpus * 1206 1207 1208 1209
 Mr. Cobbett : There will be schemes enough of this sort laid before the House during the Session, no doubt, and the House having very little to do, they will serve, perhaps, as excellent amusement. What do they all come to, those that have been, and those that probably will be offered to us?—Compensation. But I will say this, as far as I am myself concerned, I will never consent to any plan which has for its object the taking an additional farthing from the pockets of the English, Irish, or Scotch people. Compensation! Ay, it always comes to that in the end—that is ever the object of all those fine plans which we have seen proposed. The planters ought to have compensation! Oh, and the people must pay, to be sure. Once advance the five millions, which the petition prays for, and I should be glad to know how it is to be got back, once establish the precedent of making the oppressed people of these countries pay the planters' portion, and then they will have to pay all. How long will this continue? Indemnity to the planters, indemnity to this, that, and the other; but all out of the pockets of the poorest of an overtaxed people. The hon. Member concluded by observing, that he had a case of compensation
 1180
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that in this question the interests of the poor man were totally overlooked. Almost every poor man in the country who had a garden, employed Sunday morning—the only time he could spare from the labours of the week—in its cultivation. Would that be made a crime by the contemplated enactment? Divers things must be done of a Sunday in the country as well as in town; the farming servant must obey his master, when the crop depends upon his labours, of a Sunday, perhaps, as well as the servant in the city must obey his. Would this obedience be made a crime; or would he who required it be rendered a delinquent? It
 1190
 Mr. Cobbett  again addressed the House. He thought the law as it now stood quite sufficient for all useful purposes. He was quite satisfied no law could be passed to interfere between master and servant which would not lead to confusion which never would be at an end. If a law were to be made by which servants should not be employed on Sundays, would a cook not immediately say to her mistress that she would not cook the dinner for Sunday? It was said that the measure was to prevent masters working men-servants on Sundays;
 1191
 Mr. Cobbett  was much pleased to hear this petition, and he would have been more pleased still, to have found, that it included the lay impropriations. It was the lay impropriations that wanted abolishing.
 Mr. Cobbett : Some hon. Gentlemen to the right and left of me have been making some assertions which I must beg leave to examine the foundations of. It has been stated, that two-thirds of the property of the whole kingdom rests upon the same foundation as tithes and other Church property. It must, however, be granted, that the possession of much of the land in the kingdom arises from grants
 1195 1196
 Mr. Ewart  presented a Petition, signed by a great number of merchants and other inhabitants of Liverpool, upon the subject of the Corporation of that borough. It was signed at one of the most numerous and respectable meetings of merchants, ship-owners, and rate-payers, that was ever held there, and its object was, to obtain a Reform of the Corporation. The revenues of the Corporation, derived from various sources, amounted to little less than 300,000 l l l 1188
 Mr. Finn  said, that as one of the agitators who had exerted himself on the occasion referred to by the gallant Member, he wished to make a few observations. The whole cause of all the proceedings to which the gallant Member referred was to be traced to the Government itself; and their after vengeance was to be accounted for by the fact, that the people had, in spite of them, elected honest men, and not those whom they looked upon, and justly looked upon, as the bitter enemies of the country. The people wished to have nothing to do with those who now cajoled Orangemen, and then paid their court to Catholics—who at one time praised the loyalty of the yeomanry, and then exclaimed against their violence; and what for? Why, to answer their own purposes—to secure their own tenure of office. The people of Ireland did not confide in those who had, in some instances, been selected to represent them; and in the instance to which the gallant Member alluded, they did not confide in the  protégé 1249 Non meus hic sermo. Habeas Corpus 1250
 Mr. Gillon  presented five petitions, praying for the Abolition of Church Property in Ireland, and for its application to some purposes calculated to relieve the burthens of that country, from the Political Union of Leslie, and from the Protestant Dissenters of Kelso. The hon. Member was convinced that tranquillity would never exist in either Ireland or England as long as those who professed a religion contrary to the Established Church of Ireland were compelled to contribute so largely to the maintenance of doctrines with which they could not agree. He
 1192
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the first reading of this Bill; and, on its being read, the noble Lord proceeded to address the House to the following effect:—I can assure the House, Sir, that in making the proposition which I am now about to submit to their attention, I deeply feel how difficult it must be for any man to address such an assembly as the present, and to ask such men as I now see assembled, to grant to any Government the powers I now come to seek at their hands. The whole course of my political life has been such as to make it against my opinion to come forward with such a proposition; and nothing could have induced me to do so except the feelings, which are strongly impressed on my mind, of the absolute necessity of the measure. As I feel I shall have to detain the House a considerable length of time, it is, of course, not desirable that I should preface my arguments by many remarks, and I shall, therefore, at once
 1211 1212 Mr. O'Connell expressed dissent Mr. O'Connell again expressed dissent 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 cheers from Mr. O'Connell and his friends 1220 cheers from Mr. O'Connell]. 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226 1227
 Lord Sandon  rose to set the House right with respect to an assertion which many hon. Members seemed to think uncontroverted—he meant the supposed fourfold appropriation of tithes. Now it appeared by the evidence taken before the tithe Committee of this hon. House last year, that no such general ecclesiastical division of the tithes existed, and that there was only one parish which could be adduced as a proof of the existence of the practice at all. He perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, in saying, that the squirearchy, and not the hierarchy, enjoyed the greater part of the tithes in Ireland. In order, perhaps, to give Gentlemen some clue to the cause of the wretchedness of that country more correctly than that of the oppression of the Protestant clergy, he would mention a fact which was proved before a Committee, of which he was a member. A gentleman who was examined told them, that on his coming of age he had found his estate overbur-thened with population, and he determined to clear it. This was a very simple phrase, but what did the gentleman mean by it? Why, he turned forth 1,100 people, without a home, into the highways, to starve and shift for themselves. He stated, that he gave them nothing, and when asked what had become of them, he said that some had gone into the town, others had gone on to neighbouring estates, and others again had become thieves and vagabonds. No landlord in England could act in this way for shame, if nothing else would prevent him. He did not mean to say, that the gentlemen of Ireland were deficient in good feeling; but the occurrence of such a circumstance as this proved how great a difference there was in the standard of feeling in the two
 1197
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the prayer of the petition, and said, he knew of an actual denial of justice arising from the conscientious refusal of an individual to take an oath. In an important case, an insurance office actually lost a large sum of money, for want of the evidence of a man who could not be induced to take an oath. That fact alone showed that the abstract principle on which oaths were insisted upon was erroneous, and ought to be relinquished.
 Mr. Murray  thought, that the case stated by the petitioners was one of hardship, and the Legislature was bound to relieve them.
 Mr. Strickland  expressed his satisfaction at finding that many master manufacturers had signed the petition—a proof that their interests were not so vitally concerned in the question as to make them heedless of the limbs and health of those employed by them. It was for that House, however, to decide on the question as one of humanity. He could never believe, that this system, which worked poor unfortunate children until their limbs were maimed, and their health was destroyed, could be considered, as advantageous or necessary to this opulent country. The facts brought before the Committee were so strong and unanswerable that although they might go into a long and extensive investigation on the other side, and might prove that some of the master manufacturers were disposed to acts of kindness and humanity, that could never overturn the mass of fearful evidence which had been submitted to the Committee, or the living testimony which the pallid faces and distorted limbs of the wretched victims of the system, who had been brought before them presented.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. member for Oldham had not merited the rebuke which had been uttered by the last speaker, more especially as his remarks had been founded on statements which had not yet been contradicted. He had demonstrated out of Acts of Parliament, that the taxation on the poor of this country was infinitely greater than on the rich; and this had been done in so clear, plain, and simple a manner that even the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with his wonted candour had admitted the injustice of the system, and pointed out the Assessed taxes as another instance of a similar inequality. To their credit would it be, to join the hon. member for Oldham in getting these inequalities removed. As to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken on the subject of certain publications, he believed that his hon. friend the member for Oldham was as much entitled to circulate his own
 1297 cheers
 An Hon. Member  said, it was the duty of a Reformed Parliament to heal any differences that might exist, and not to widen the breach between the rich and the poor. A few evenings since, a statement had been made by one of the hon. members for Oldham, that in some part of Yorkshire there were 20,000 persons unable to get bread, and 40,000 earning only 2½ d
 Mr. Stanley : They are so now.
 Mr. Stanley : I did not attend.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that if he had a single doubt as to the propriety of supporting Government on this occasion, it would have been removed by the conclusive speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. It was a speech so convincing, that the address of the eloquent Gentleman who spoke that night failed in shaking one single fact or argument contained in it. Never had he heard a stronger, a more irresistible case made out than that of the necessity of arming Ministers with extraordinary powers. It was said, why not inquire into the cause of these disturbances, and the probable remedies to be employed by Government in order to remove the evils of the country? But when he reflected on the danger that would result from any delay caused by the application of those remedies, he could not withhold from Ministers the powers they demanded. The Motion made by the hon. member for Lambeth, requiring a fortnight's delay, was one he could not consent to; because a much longer time would be requisite, in order to see the effect of the remedial measures. Before they sanctioned delay, let the price of that delay be taken into account—le them put themselves into the situation of persons living in an agitated district, and estimate the waste of property and life in the interval. Unless he was satisfied that no outrages would be committed in the meantime, he was resolved not to be deterred from giving his cordial support to Government. It was with reluctance he attempted to vindicate the present Bill—harsh and unconstitutional it certainly
 1361
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if he was alluded to, he for one would be no party to any bargain on the subject. He denied that any Member of that House had the right to dictate to him on any portion of his public conduct or tell him when he was to speak. He stood there the Representative of the Irish people [ Loud laughter, and cries of and
 Mr. Baldwin  said, that he had been very much censured by his constituents for not having spoken before. As the Representative of a very large constituency he could assure the noble Lord that the discussion should not close without his expressing his indignation at the introduction of the most despotic and most uncalled-for measure which had ever been brought before a British House of Commons.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that he used the term in no offensive sense, but merely meant to refer to the order and arrangement of hon. Members on the various benches rising behind each other.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that the great cause of all the evils which England suffered from Ireland was; the misgovernment and mismanagement to which the latter had been exposed, and yet the Ministers were about to make the wrong and the cause of all the evils much greater. He would tell Ministers that they would not attain their object, but would bring ruin on the country and on their own heads. If the people allowed the Bill to pass, it would keep up the taxes, and they, therefore, could not allow it to pass with impunity. It was fraught with danger to both parts of the empire, and he would, while it was yet time, raise his voice against it? Was this the fruit of Reform? Was this the gratitude of England to Ireland for her exertions to obtain Reform? It was his duty not to give the Government the power they asked, and he should oppose even the first stage of the Bill. The question would probably be decided for Ministers by a well-dressed majority of the House. But who were their supporters in this scheme of oppression? The very men who were distinguished for their hatred of liberty—that faction which had been so long the object of invective to
 1360
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  trusted, that the House would indulge him for a few minutes while he gave his opinion on this harsh and unconstitutional measure. His indignation was not directed against those Members who did what they considered as merely their duty in voting for the present measure; and he would beg to ask them if there was one particle of evidence before the House to show that Ireland was in a state to warrant such a measure; but his indignation was roused against his Majesty's Ministers, who roused the bad feelings of Ireland towards England to the highest pitch, by bringing in a Bill which buried the constitution of Ireland in a grave from which it would never rise. It had been said, that the agitators were the cause of the disturbances, and of the unpopularity of his Majesty's Government. He (Mr. O'Connor) had been a great agitator; and he would say, that he had never mentioned the names of any of the members of his Majesty's Government on such occasions but once, and then it was to propose a vote of thanks to them. He never spoke harshly; and when he could say no good he said no evil of them, for he was silent. They were now called on to pass a great, and a harsh measure; and if, on examination, it was found that there was no case of necessity made out for its adoption, he conceived that the House would not be justified in adopting it. A noble Earl had stated in another place, that disturbances existed in the counties of Kilkenny, Cork, and Tipperary. He denied that there were any disturbances in the county of Cork; and he had no doubt but the hon. member for Kilkenny could give him a similar testimony as to the state of that county. He would not attempt to follow the hon. member for Leeds in his hop, step, and jump from England to Ireland, thence to Scotland, and from Scotland to Egypt—he would
 1347 1348 * * 1349 laughter a laugh 1350 l s d d l s l l Laughter Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from a number of persons, called Separatists, stating that they entertained a religious scruple on the subject of oaths, and praying to be put on the same footing in that respect as Quakers, He must express his satisfaction
 1293
 Mr. Hardy  presented a Petition from the Borough of Bradford, in Yorkshire, signed by 12,000 inhabitants of that place, praying for the enactment of a law by which the labour at present imposed on children in factories might be diminished and regulated. The petitioners were persons who had every day an opportunity of observing the effects of the existing system; and they were of opinion that commercial prosperity was not to be put in comparison with those effects. He did not wish to cast any stigma on the master manufacturers. He was persuaded that they were ready to afford any convenience or comfort to the children, provided the established number of hours of labour were adhered to. But it was to the great evil of such an adherence that, like other human beings in similar circumstances, they were blinded by their own interests. The question was, if the Legislature of Great Britain were prepared to sanction, for the sake of commercial prosperity, a system which cramped the limbs and destroyed the energies of so large a class of the population of the country. The masters said, that
 1294
 Mr. Hume  said, hoped that the day would arrive when the Legislature would wipe off the stain of illiberality by which persons who, from religious scruples, declined to take an oath, were refused the exercise of some of the most valuable civil rights. It was hard that a man's morality should be impeached simply because he was conscientious. As the law stood, a man who was conscientious, declined to take an oath, and that man's evidence was rejected, while a man who was not conscientious, took an oath without hesitation, and his evidence was accepted.
 Mr. Methuen  said, the only object of the hon. Member who had just sat down, appeared to be to set the poor against the rich, and create animosity between the different orders of society. This sort of language was not then heard for the first time, for the same hon. Member had published it in  Political Registers
 Mr. Sheil  having moved the Order of the Day for the Adjourned Debate on the Disturbances (Ireland) Bill, proceeded to address the House, and said, he did certainly feel that, on rising to endeavour to make a reply to the exceedingly remarkable speech with which the debate of yesternight concluded, he was undertaking a very arduous task. He was perfectly sensible that the right hon. Gentleman had addressed an auditory on whom he certainly made a very profound impression. If the right hon. Gentleman had addressed the most cold and reluctant audience, that faculty of speech, which, beyond all question, he possessed in a very distinguished and eminent manner, would certainly have secured for him the acclamations of the assembly, however he might fail to produce conviction in their minds. But when he united this double advantage—the effect of his own powers with the predisposition and sympathies of his British hearers, it was not a matter of surprise, that so considerable a sensation should have followed the delivery of that remarkable piece of oratory, which the House had heard with so much admiration. But while he thus offered to the right hon. Gentleman, what he trusted would be deemed perfectly sincere on his part, the tribute which was due to him for his distinguished abilities, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would pardon him if he ventured to express some regret and surprise, that, when he was introducing a question of such paramount importance to that part of the country which was principally the subject of it—or rather, sustaining the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing a measure fraught with such pains and penalties, the right hon. Gentle-man had not thought it judicious to follow more strictly the course pointed out, and the example set him by the noble Lord. If the right hon. Gentleman had appealed exclusively to those documents contained in
 1300 No, no 1301 Habeas Corpus 1302 Habeas Corpus ex suo molu 1303 1304 1305 Tipperary Free Press Comet 1306 1307 Annual Register 1308 1309 1310 1311
 Mr. Sheil : What! was this admitted? Then what became of the charge, that the Political Union and the Volunteers had thrown the country into confusion? How did it come to pass that Clare, the field where the battle of emancipation and its victory were won, was quiet, if Daniel O'Connell shook the fabric of society to the centre? Was Kilkenny and the Queen's County, the O'Connell country? Could they on a map trace the extent and limits with a red and green line of this terrible power? See into what inconsistencies they fell. The reason of certain districts being disturbed was, that there the tithe resistance was begun. The Special Commissions did not lay the seeds of peace deep enough; and before the fruit could be produced, they were disturbed by a renewal of the agitation engendered by the right hon. Secretary. Kilkenny was the county in which the priest's horse was seized for tithes. Kilkenny was the county in which the priest himself was recently arrested for tithes, and in Kilkenny the effects of the right hon. Gentleman's genius for legislation was peculiarly conspicuous. He admitted, that three Special Commissions had completely succeeded. One, the last, had, he said, failed. Was one failure to counterpoise three instances of success, and on that single failure were they to build the despotism of Ireland? But with regard to the remedy. He had charged the right hon. Secretary with neglect of duty, not only in not attending the Committee, but in not having read the Report carefully; and he was justified in saying so. From the speech of the right hon. Gentleman last
 * 1314 1315 cheers Q. Have you any remedy you would suggest for the quietude of the country? A. The only remedy I would suggest is the preserving the administration of the laws in the ordinary forms, and the prosecution of every outrage that occurs. I think the people are more attached to and satisfied with the Administration of the ordinary law, than they would be by any extraordinary measures. That is proved by their never having shown any hostility to Jurors. Q. You have stated that the malignity of the people is infinitely greater towards Magistrates who act under the Insurrection Act than towards Jurors; have you known such instances? A. I have. I have never known instances of hostility to Jurors at the same time that the persons, who have been acting as Jurors, have been attacked returning, from the Insurrection Act, though they have been serving on a Jury to try a capital offence, and on the Insurrection Act to try a transportable one. There is a rancour remaining in the country for years after, and a hostility against Magistrates who act under the Insurrection Act; not the slightest against Jurors. Q. Your opinion is, that the law is sufficiently strong, and that the procuring obedience to it depends on the proper administration of it? A. Certainly; proper and prompt. If the Committee will put any other imaginary cases to me I shall endeavour to point out how they can be met, and how the present law is applicable to them. I speak of the law to meet offences committed; it is not for me to judge of its sufficiency or insufficiency as to meetings. Q. Is it not possible there may be the same hostility against Magistrates acting under this whiteboy Act? 1316 A. That depends on the mode of trial. If you try them under the Insurrection Act for the same offences, it will; they do not consider it a fair tribunal at all. They think that they are transported without a trial, and by the Magistrates; but when tried for the same offences under the ordinary laws, though the result may be the same—they are satisfied with the one, and displeased with the other. 1317 1318 1319 Habeas Corpus Act 1320 1321 en masse 1322 Althorp: 1323 l l 1324 1325 1326 Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Sheil : Not attend! Good God! Did he hear correctly? A Committee was named by Sir Henry Parnell in the midst of an emergency in May last, to consider the state of Ireland; the right hon. Secretary declared that Committee to be most important, his name was the second on the list, the Commander of the Forces was examined, and the hon. Gentleman does not condescend, or was too much pressed by occupation rather, to attend. This was a precious mode of managing Irish business. And what did he tell the House? Having neglected to attend himself on the inquiry, he told the House not to inquire. But let them come to facts. He would, therefore, take the liberty of referring to a part of the Report which bore immediately on the question before the House. The evidence he referred to was that of Sir Hussey Vivian; and he says, "The combination is directed against tithes at present, and if you could satisfactorily arrange the tithe question you would, I should hope, have Ireland pretty quiet. I think it is in other respects as quiet as it was twenty years ago. Get rid of the first cause of excitement, and you will tranquillize Ireland in spite of agitation. But what had the right hon. Secretary done? Why, deaf to all remonstrance, insensible to every entreaty, although he was implored to forbear, to wait at least for the reformed Parliament, he passed his Tithe Act, at the close of the Session, trampled on the Irish with his English majorities, and effected an achievement in legislation to which existing calamities might be referred. It was too bad—it was not to be endured—to hear the right hon. Gentleman talk of the Special Commission in the Queen's County having failed, when he himself enacted such statutes as would overthrow all peace in any country, and had driven the people to excesses, of which the consequences ought to be on his own head. The fault was with him. But for his measures, of equal rashness and impolicy, the county would now be tranquil. He first drove Ireland desperate,
 1312 1313 *
 Mr. Carew,  under the circumstances of the Bill, and the peculiar manner in which it was calculated to apply to Ireland, would claim the indulgence of the House. It was to him a subject of particular regret to be obliged to come to a decision. Connected with the independent interest, he had always wished to extend the popular principle to the utmost degree that was consistent with the Constitution and public safety; beyond that limit he never had gone. He would never sacrifice practical security to theoretical advantage. He was bound in conscience to state that the situation of some parts of Ireland was such and the intimidation so great, that the law could not be enforced; and in those parts stronger measures were necessary; but the circumstances should be so defined as to make it impossible to extend the measure to unoffending districts. He was happy to say, that the county of Wexford would not be found to require extra measures; and though at one time during the winter months there was every reason to apprehend that it would be involved in the general confusion, the united exertions of all classes, the energy of the Magistrates, the active co-operation of the Catholic clergy, and the goodwill of the farmers enabled them to check the spirit, and he hoped to redeem the proverbially good character of the county of Wexford. He was bound, however, to say, that much depended upon early exertion—when once the spirit of insubordination got to a certain point, all classes were paralysed, and life and property ceased to be secure, for there was no tyranny equal to that of a licentious and lawless mob. When he was prepared to admit the necessity of some coercive measures, he was bound also to see that those measures should be strictly limited, but particularly that they should be unconnected with the levying of tithes. If it had been intended to apply them to such an object, he should certainly have opposed them. Nay, more, whatever might have been the necessity of stronger measures, he should have deprecated their adoption, unless there was a prospect of remedial measures also. The general spirit of discontent and agitation could only be permanently put down by justice in the legislation towards Ireland; but when he considered the different measures of amelioration which had been proposed in Church Reform, and the reduction of the temporalities, abolition of the
 1352 1353 1354
 Mr. Gisborne  denied, that the evidence taken by the Committee on the factory system had any application to the factories generally. 'They undoubtedly applied to the particular factories spoken of, but were in no degree applicable to other factories. Had that Committee continued its labours, evidence would have been laid before it, that would have absolved the manufacturers generally from the imputations that now unjustly rested upon them. At the same time, he freely admitted, that it was the duty of that House to interpose and protect those who could not protect themselves. He hoped that when the Bills of the noble Lords (Morpeth and Ashley) were introduced, they would neither of them be allowed to pass without a dispassionate consideration of their merits. The public mind had been grossly abused on this subject
 1299
 Mr. Macaulay  confessed, that the apprehensions entertained by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down did not appear to him to be in any degree well-grounded, nor did he think that the speech of that hon. and learned Gentleman, however much it had been cheered at that side of the House, would at all weaken the lasting impression made by the admirable address delivered by his right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley) yesterday evening. That speech had produced an impression which he was convinced would not easily be removed from the minds of those who heard it. The hon. and learned Gentleman had told them, that that speech, great as he admitted it to be, owed much of its force to the prepossessions of the majority in that House. According to the hon. and learned Gentleman, it would appear that English Members were eager to find an excuse for exposing Ireland to the operation of this measure. For himself and for those who concurred with him in opinion as to the necessity of the measure, he begged most distinctly and positively to repudiate the charge. That Englishmen were anxious for some excuse to put their fellow-subjects of Ireland out of the pale of the Constitution was, he must, in justice to himself and other English Members, say, altogether unfounded. For his own part, he had never risen in that House under more painful feelings than those which now oppressed him. He had never thought, that it would have become necessary for him to stand up and defend the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 1327 Habeas Corpus habeas corpus 1328 from Mr. O'Connell 1329 1330 1331 1332 1333 insignia Habeas Corpus 1334 1335 experimentum in corpore vili 1336 Habeas Corpus 1337
 Mr. Cobbett  thought it was remarkable that nobody had yet attempted to assign the true cause; to show the real necessity for the cruelty of which the petitioners complained. Whenever a Government or whenever a Legislature attempted to interfere in the regulation of labour—to make laws between master and servant, it always failed. They ought to apply themselves to some other cause of the evil which they might hope to remove. They were going to interfere, not between the master manufacturers
 1295 1296
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. John Romilly,  in rising, said that, as a young Member of the House, and when so many were desirous to state their opinions of the great question before them, he felt that he was not entitled to take up much of the time of the House. In viewing this question, it was necessary to look not only to the evils pointed out by his Majesty's Ministers, and the evils mentioned in the Report of last Session, which he admitted had strong claims on the serious attention of the House—but they had also to consider whether the measures now proposed by his Majesty's Ministers would have the effect of removing those evils. No one was more ready than he was to give credit to his Majesty's Ministers for the several measures which they had proposed and carried through Parliament, for the good of the country; but with all his favourable disposition towards them, he could not but hesitate when such a measure as this was proposed—he could not but ask whether there were no other way to improve the state of Ireland? When he saw the people of that great country so determinedly opposed to the law, he could not but inquire whether the law itself had not something wrong in it, and whether it deserved to be retained. Before enforcing obedience, it should be ascertained whether the law was worthy to be obeyed? He admitted, as was stated by the hon. Member opposite, that the laws ought to be enforced, and that the Government should have the power of enforcing them in the most complete manner against such heinous crimes as murder and robbery. And if the provisions of this Bill were confined to persons guilty of crimes of that description, it would meet with no opposition from him; but he objected to it most strongly, in so far as it involved all classes of his Majesty's Irish subjects, and in so far as it proscribed the innocent as well as the guilty. With regard to domiciliary visits, he would willingly go so far as to allow that those who were out beyond a certain hour at night, and were found out, should be considered as guilty of a misdemeanor; but he thought, that clause should be confined to those who were found out, and that the houses of the people should not be liable to be searched to see whether or not they were
 1338 1339 Habeas Corpus 1340 1341 1342
 Mr. Clay  said, he thought the measure not adequate to meet the evils which it had been brought forward to remedy. If it were right in principle, it ought undoubtedly to pass immediately; if wrong, it ought not to be passed at all. The course of policy to be followed by his Majesty's Ministers had been developed, and their remedy for a part of the evils was a system of coercion—a policy, which he thought so ill adapted to the objects stated, that it would rather increase than lessen the evil. That course of policy was not what the country had a right to expect, nor was it calculated to settle the difficult question. He could not reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote on this subject—the rather as he was disposed to think that all its bearings had not been successfully developed in the speech, however eloquent and able, of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. That speech was calculated to lead the House into one great error—that of substituting local, personal, and party feelings for the general good, as the basis of legislation—a principle of legislation that was, in the last degree, dangerous. He would say, that he had no feeling of hostility against Ministers; he was disposed to give them his warmest support; he owed them gratitude for what they had done as to
 1355 1356 prima facie 1357 1358 Question a laugh 1359
 Lord Althorp  said, that since the question
 1364
 Lord Althorp  said, that he was quite aware that he had no right to dictate to the hon. and learned Member, and he put it to the House whether, in what he had said, he had assumed any such right? He had, however, the right, and he would exercise it, of expressing an opinion upon any subject before the House.
 Lord Althorp  rose to make one or two remarks on what had fallen from the hon. members for Dublin and Oldham. The hon. member for Oldham had stated on a former occasion, that the poor paid in taxes forty times as much as the rich, and he had brought forward some resolutions which were founded upon that statement. Those resolutions, however, had been brought before the House, without any previous notice, and the hon. Member himself had so clearly seen the inconvenience of fully discussing them under such circumstances, that he had consented to withdraw them. The hon. and learned member for Dublin, however, had now stated to the House, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had admitted the truth and accuracy of the hon. member for
 1298
 Lord Ebrington  would be the last man to take advantage of an expression uttered in the heat of debate; but he would tell hon. Members that they could not deprive of the confidence of the country, those men, who, by the whole tenor of their lives, had proved themselves the friends of popular rights, who, during the long course of their political career,; had uniformly endeavoured to defend and extend the liberties of their fellow-subjects. In these struggles he had borne a very humble part, it was true, but with respect to Ireland, he had shared in the sacrifices made by those men during a long course of years, in order to secure emancipation to their fellow-subjects. It was thought convenient by some, who had been the chief gainers by that measure, to forget those sacrifices, and denounce the very men who made them as the worst enemies of Ireland. But if he had been ready to encounter the odium
 1362 1363
 Lord Ebrington  begged leave, before he said one word on the measure before the House, to ask the hon. Gentleman who addressed the House last but one, to explain what he meant by "a well-dressed majority?" [ Explain
 Lord Mahon  said, that, however much he might differ from the application of the extract just quoted by the hon. and learned Member, he should always listen with respect to the words of Sir Samuel Romilly; and he trusted that no difference in politics would ever prevent him from hailing, with pleasure, the appearance in that House of any relatives of so upright and distinguished a man. He would willingly have given a silent vote upon this occasion; but, connected as he was with Ireland by the ties of property, he
 1343 1344 Cries of 1345 1346
 Mr. Hill  presented a Petition from Kingston-upon-Hull, praying for a due Observance of the Sabbath, He was happy to hear from the hon. Gentleman who intended to introduce a Bill on the subject, that there was no intention to interfere with the recreation of the lower classes on Sundays. The great difficulty, however, which the hon. Member would have to contend with, was to shape the law so as not to create feelings of hostility between the rich and poor. He trusted the hon. Member would do his best to get rid of that difficulty, as he would then promise him his most cordial support.
 An Hon. Member  said, he had heard a great many strange arguments on this subject. It had been said, among other statements, that it was vain to introduce any Statute-law on the observance of the Sabbath at all. If this was to be carried to the full extent of the argument, it could mean neither more nor less than to say that all law might be dispensed with together. This could not be a doctrine very likely to meet with the support of the House or the public.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  was anxious to say a few words on this very important subject, particularly as he had been intrusted to support a petition from his own part of the country very much to the effect of the one which had just been presented. No man could be more desirous than himself that the Sabbath should, in all respects, be duly observed; but it was his candid opinion, that it could not be made to be more sacredly observed by any legislative Act whatever. If an individual had not a proper sense of what was due to his Creator, so as to induce him to abstain from worldly pursuits and other unchristian
 10
 Mr. Hill  presented a Petition from a Congregation of Unitarian Dissenters, assembling for Religious Worship, in Bowle-Alley-Lane, praying for the removal of ail Religious Disqualifications, still existing, and especially for the removal of the Disabilities affecting the Jews. There was one remark of the hon. member for Oldham, upon which he wished to observe. He understood the hon. Member to say, that if the Jews were admitted to
 11
 An Hon. Member  said, he had a very great respect for all classes of the community who conducted themselves properly. Though he did not entertain a very high respect for the political opinions of the hon. member for Oldham, yet for that hon. Gentleman's knowledge of the English language he had a very high respect, and he would feel most particularly obliged to him if he would point out, or give them another term, in place of that which had displeased him—"lower orders."
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that upon no subject more than the one now under discussion should the term "the lower orders" be kept out of view. In the eye of the Almighty there was no difference between the poorest of the people and the Monarch on the Throne. No Member of that House felt a greater desire to promote the
 9
 Mr. Hill  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Kingston-upon-Hull, praying the House to present an humble Address to his Majesty, imploring him to enter into an immediate negotiation with France and the other Powers of Europe who were not parties to the dismemberment of Poland, with a view to restoring that unhappy country to her rights. The outrages which had been committed in Poland were so numerous, and so abhorrent to the feelings of all the civilized world, that it would be a waste of time at present to enter at any length upon it. It might appear, that this petition prayed the House to enter upon a hopeless subject; but when they considered the state of Poland, the enormity of the crime, the carrying away of a whole nation into captivity, treating them as the Jews of old were treated by the Babylonish kings, putting them in a state for which they must refer to very remote history to find a parallel, he did think it became the duty of all the civilized world, however hopeless the attempt might appear to be, to use every possible exertion to put an end to such dreadful atrocities. It was yet to be seen whether the emperor of Russia would be deaf to the entreaties of the whole civilized world. That experiment, at least, had not yet been tried. The present petitioners forbore to allude, in the most distant way, to force, to attain their object, and they did wisely; every thing should be previously tried, and perhaps, in the event of failure—even then, in the present state of the world, the experiment should be carried no further.
 Mr. Heathcote  deprecated the continuance of these lengthened and desultory discussions on the presentation of petitions. He was of opinion that hon. Members would not be able to justify themselves to their constituents for thus wasting the time of the House. One of the heaviest complaints against the former Parliament was, that there was infinitely too much talking, and very little done. He regretted exceedingly to see, however, that the Reformed House was no better, and he feared much worse, than the un-reformed House. It reminded him of the fable of the swallow—it had only brushed out the old inhabitants of the nest, to bring in a lot of more insatiable talkers. First, a petition was presented in favour of the Jews, which led to a long discussion as to who were and who were not Christians. Then came a petition in favour of the Poles, when his hon. friend, the member for Kirkcudbright, having promised to make a very short speech, made a very long one; and now the hon. member for Oldham was prepared to go into a
 21
 Mr. Heathcote  said, he had been misunderstood by the hon. Member. He did not complain of his departing from the question. All he had said was that the hon. Member as usual, began with saying that he would trouble the House but a very short time, and then made a very long speech.
 Mr. M'Leod  declared that he could not sit silent after the most gross and unfounded attack which the hon. member for Oldham had made on the county which he (Mr. M'Leod) had the honour to represent. In doing so, he had to throw himself on the indulgence of the House, and of the people of England. He called upon them to suspend their judgments for the present, and not to give credit to the gross aspersions that had been cast on those whom he represented. Although he did not impute those calumnies to the hon. member for Oldham himself, never had more infamous calumnies been uttered by any hon. Member, and that without the slightest notice too to the parties interested, and with out the possibility of their coming forward to contradict them in that House. The county which he had the honour of representing belonged in a great part to certain noble individuals, who had always treated him with marks of favour and distinction, to which he individually had no title; and he should have been chargeable with a dereliction of positive duty, if he had not stood
 22
 An Hon. Member  expressed his conviction that, if the hon. member for Oldham were to investigate the subject, he would find, that what he had described as facts were entirely destitute of foundation.
 An Hon. Member  said, he had been requested by the petitioners to support the prayer of the petition, but he felt himself unable to do so, because he was convinced, from all he had heard, both in the House and out of it, that measures of coercion were indispensably necessary to repress the outrages now taking place in Ireland, and to protect the lives and property of his Majesty's more peaceable subjects. He also felt convinced that Ministers had brought forward the measure with great reluctance; and he was persuaded
 23
 Mr. Ruthven  said, as this was the first petition from Englishmen against the Bill, he thought it was due to them that some Irish Member should make some observation on it. He, for one, was happy that it had been presented, and he hailed it both as a token of good will in the English towards his countrymen, and an augury that the fatal measure against which it was directed would not be suffered to pass into a law.
 The Attorney General  said, he should be wanting in that respect which was due to the House, he should be wanting in that respect which he might fairly assert was due to his own character, if he did not offer his opinion, and it was not a lightly considered one, with reference to this question. Observations had been made in the course of the evening, which would appear to call for some particular notice from him; but it was not his intention to enter into any personal argument with the hon. Member who made those observations, or with any other hon. Member, on such an occasion. He should merely say, with reference to the allusions which had been made, that he believed there was no man having the honour of a seat in that House, to whom they could be fairly or justly applied—there was no man in that House so base as, in his opinion, to deserve them. For himself, he should only say, that he would yield to no man who entered that House, (let his constituency be what it might—let him come from whatever part of the empire he might)
 72 73 74 75 76 77
 Mr. Ruthven,  amidst general cries of "Question," moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that having proposed an adjournment to to-morrow, he felt it right to say, that he hoped the Debate would be concluded on Monday. He trusted, that the Irish Members, who had occupied a considerable portion of the Debate, and to whom he admitted it was right, that a great share of time and attention should be conceded on a question in which they were so much interested, would not desire to defer the decision of the question longer. There would be many opportunities for them in the progress of the measure to stale their objections to its details, but he trusted, that they would allow the House to come to a conclusion upon the question of the first reading on Monday.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that setting aside the irritation which had been excited, there never was any thing more unfounded than the assertion that the Irish Members had consumed more than their adequate share of this Debate. How many had spoken? One, for a short time, on the first night; two on the second; and one on this night—only one Irish Member had spoken to-night. This was a question in which the Irish Members were deeply interested. To English Gentlemen it was a matter of judicial determination: they
 103 in limine
 Mr. Walker  addressing the House from one of the side galleries, observed that it came with an ill grace from an anti-Reformer, who had given every opposition in his power to the progress of the Reform Bill in that House to taunt Irish Members, because they endeavoured to prevent the extinction of the Constitution in their country.
 Mr. Baldwin  moved the Adjournment of the Debate to Monday next.
 Lord John Russell  said, on the last occasion when he spoke, after the hon. and learned Gentleman, he had complimented him on the candour with which he had avowed his opinions. He had to pay the learned Gentleman a like compliment on the present occasion. Notions and doctrines of a more extravagant nature were never
 51 52 53 54 55 56 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 57 l l 58 Habeas Corpus 59 Habeas Corpus 60
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that if the majority of that House were of the opinion which had been expressed by many hon. Members that day, the present would be the last Christian Parliament which would sit in that House. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, in what he had stated upon this subject, though it was not often that he did agree with that hon. Member. He thought that hon. Member had gone to the root of the matter, and placed it upon its proper basis. The hon. member for Oldham had clearly shown what the Jews were in regard to a Christian community, and he (Mr. Johnston) had no hesitation in saying, that if Jews were admitted into that House, there would be at once an end to all Christianity. They treated the very foundation of the Christian faith with ridicule, and called its great founder an impostor. He agreed with several hon. Members, that the present subject was not to be treated lightly, and regretted, that the hon. member for Oldham had in some measure so treated it. He, however, hoped, that in future he would restrain himself from making his remarks in the way he had done. He considered it very important also to look to what the petitioners were. It was true, that they were now living in times when all distinctions were to be done away with, but he entreated the House to recollect, that the present petition came from Unitarians, whom he denied to be Christians, He trusted, that hon. Members would
 17
 Mr. O'Dwyer  presented a petition, numerously signed, from the inhabitants of Drogheda. With the permission of the House he would enter somewhat minutely into the prayer of the petitioners. The petitioners referred, in the first place, to the coercive measures for Ireland, introduced to that House by his Majesty's Ministers within the last few days. They stated, that they had learned the intention of the Government with sensations of the utmost grief and astonishment; and they designated the Bill as one of the most tyrannical and despotic ever attempted to be passed into a law for a free people. They stated that they expected measures very different indeed from a Reformed House of Parliament, and not such a proceeding in this respect as the worst Parliament that ever sat in that House ever took—or the worst Government that ever cursed the country dreamed of inflicting. They expressed their humble, but entire confidence, that that and the accompanying measures—called a panacea for Ireland—would have no such effect; but, on the contrary, that measures of coercion first, with measures of relief to follow, would most assuredly increase the irritation, and sting an excited people to madness. They stated also, something of their efforts in the great struggle for Reform in which this country was lately engaged; but he should be sorry to suppose that that House valued the aid of so insignificant a fraction of the United Kingdom. They asked that honourable House "to consider their case first, and then to act towards them as justice should dictate." But they little knew the feelings of that honourable
 24 25
 Mr. O'Dwyer  dissented  in toto
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, the hon. Baronet had taken upon him to school the Irish Members. He did not know what authority the hon. Baronet had to lecture independent Members, or to forbid them from defending the people against the aggressions of the Government—[ cries of "Oh, oh," and "Question
 Mr. O'Brien  was convinced that the measures of Ministers would give great dissatisfaction. The petition came from a part of the country which never was quieter than now. The recollection he had of the atrocities committed by the soldiers and police when the Insurrection Act was granted on a former occasion made him look with horror upon the present Bill. On a former occasion, the police committed the greatest atrocities under their power of making nocturnal visits at the dwelling of any person. He knew of an instance of the police unthatching the roof of a cottage, and setting it on fire, and compelling the inhabitants to show the men that they were men, and the women that they were women. He supported the petition, which declared that nine-tenths of the country were peaceable, and that only one or two counties were in a disturbed state; and it was very singular not a single petition had been presented in favour of the coercive measure—not one of the thirty-two Lord-lieutenants had come forward to support it. He understood that a letter had been received from the Marquess of Anglesey, declaring that he believed, even if he had the Act of Parliament, he could not carry it into effect. He should give, on every occasion, his opposition to the Bill.
 Mr. Harvey  considered the admission made by the hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House in such a creditable tone of candour and artless ingenuity, to be well worthy of consideration. He was convinced of the sincerity of the hon. Baronet, who had poured forth the honest impressions of his mind, fearless of the chastisement of practised oratory or of the refutation of subtle reasoning. The hon. Baronet, while admitting that the present Bill, though applying only to Ireland, was an experiment for England, said, that if the same circumstances which justified its adoption in Ireland should occur in this country, he would be as willing to support its application here. Now, this was the very thing that the opponents of the Bill in England apprehended. They dreaded
 41 42 No 43 44 45 Habeas Corpus 46 * * 47 48 49 l l 50
 Mr. Bolton King  presented a Petition from the Members of the Council of the Warrington Political Union, against the Irish Disturbances Suppression Bill. He was sorry he could not agree with so large a body of his constituents, but feeling convinced that the measure brought forward by Ministers was indispensable for the preservation both of the lives and of the property of his Majesty's peaceable subjects in Ireland—a measure (although coercive) in which he perfectly Concurred—he could not support the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. Littleton  presented three Petitions from certain Inhabitants of London, and two from Derby, expressing their satisfaction at the Report of the Committee on the subject last Sessions, and praying for the enactment of a law to enforce the better Observance of the Sabbath. He would not then enter at length into the question; but he would observe that, in his own opinion, moral force would be quite sufficient to effect the object of the Petitioners. In the county which he represented, the Magistrates passed Resolutions a few years ago, calling on masters to pay their men on some other day, so as to do away with the necessity of dealing on the Sabbath; and although that had not been done to such an extent
 6
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  was delighted to hear hon. Members get up in that House, and plead the cause of the distressed, even though it were of Poland or Greece. At the same time, he certainly could not but express his wish that he could have succeeded in enlisting their sympathies in behalf of Ireland. The people of that country had grievances and complaints equally strong with the people of Poland; but was it not extraordinary that hon. Gentlemen should get up in that House and eloquently plead the cause of the oppressed Poles, and with equal eloquence call for measures of coercion and despotism for Ireland. Would it not be somewhat more in character for hon. Members to look nearer home? For himself, he should be ever ready to advocate the cause of the distressed, to whatever country they might belong; but he could not avoid again imploring hon. Members to remember that Ireland was oppressed, though their sister-country.
 Mr. Dykes  presented a Petition from the Mechanics and other Inhabitants of the Borough of Cockermouth, praying for the Repeal of the Taxes upon Newspapers, and all other circulating Publications.
 Mr. Faithful  remarked, that the noble Lord opposite appeared to have mistaken the meaning of the observations offered by the hon. Member below him (Mr. Cobbett). The latter had not said, as he understood him, that education had no tendency to prevent crime, but the contrary. He (Mr. Faithful) was ready to acknowledge that education had, to a certain extent, the effect of preventing crime, and he had no doubt but a great deal of crime had been prevented by the extension of education of late years. It would, however, while they admitted that principle, be desirable to inquire into the real cause of the increase of crime of late. He believed, that they should find that the increase was attributable to the present horrible system of taxation, and that crime would not be prevented till that system was altered. If an end were put to it, crime would soon decrease.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he hoped, with reference to the taxes on knowledge, that the measure which he understood was in contemplation by his Majesty's Ministers would be sufficiently extensive to give satisfaction to all parties.
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed a hope and a confidence, that the present Ministers, to whom the country already owed so much, would pay an early attention to the subject brought before the notice of the House by the petition; and take away all the taxes which pressed so heavily upon the circulation of knowledge. He was anxious that it should be effected, and that as speedily as possible, because he was convinced that the increase of knowledge prevented the increase of crime. He was the more confirmed in this opinion by the charge, reported in a Carlisle paper, said to have been delivered by a learned Judge on the Northern Circuit, to the Grand Jury, He would, if the House would tolerate him for a moment, read an extract from that charge, which he held in his hand. The learned Judge, after adverting
 3
 Mr. Henry Grattan  agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that the Whitefeet ought to be put down, but differed from him in thinking that the Constitution ought not to be put down with them. They must stretch forth every arm to put down the Whitefeet, but they must also exert every nerve to keep tip the Constitution. Of what use was the Constitution, handed down to us from our progenitors, and cemented by the blood of our most illustrious patriots, among whom the noble Lord's ancestors stood proudly preeminent—of what use, he asked, was that Constitution, if it could be destroyed by the agitation of a body of Whitefeet, who confined their ravages to four counties of Ireland? Could the noble Lord show him any case, occurring either in time of foreign invasion or of domestic rebellion, in which a tithe of the arbitrary power which it was now proposed to place in the hands of a single dictator, was ever before intrusted to the Executive Government? Did he suppose that 8,000,000 of Irishmen would calmly submit to have their rights spoliated by these Whitefeet, who might have been put down long since had the Aristocracy done their duty? He asserted, that the gentlemen of the Queen's County had abandoned their duty to their King and to their country. Punish them, if you like, for it; but do not, on account of their misconduct, take from the people of Ireland the right of petition; do not stifle the liberty of the Press, nor strangle the rights and privileges of every man in that kingdom. For his own part he would rather cut off his hand than give his assent to this atrocious and oppressive Bill. The right hon. Secretary had endeavoured to make out a case to justify the passing of this Bill; but in doing so he had been guilty of a dereliction of his duty. The right hon. Secretary had only stated half a case; for, in alluding to the murders of Marum, Potts, and Gregory, he had carefully kept out of sight the provocations which had led to those atrocities. Had the right hon. Gentleman read over the evidence taken before the Committee on the state of Ireland—a Committee from which he had so sedulously absented himself? Had he read the evidence given by Colonel Johnson, by Mr. Stapleton, by the agent of the Marquess of Lansdown, and by the Magistrates of the Queen's County generally? The right hon. Secre-
 62 63 64 65 66 onus 67 "Weave the warp and weave the woof. The winding-sheet of Edward's race; Give ample room and verge enough The characters of hell to trace." 68 69 70 71 "Dear as the ruddy drops that visit this sad heart,"
 Mr. John H. Lloyd  observed, that there could be no doubt that there were outrages committed in Ireland, and it was equally undoubted that they should be put down; but the question which the House had to determine was, whether such a measure as the proposed one was required for that purpose, and whether a due and vigorous administration of the existing laws would not amply suffice without its enactment. He contended that the case of a necessity for such an unconstitutional measure had not been made out by his Majesty's Government, and he maintained that the existing laws afforded sufficient means for restoring peace and good order in that distracted country. Let the Government and the constituted authorities only do their duty, and his Majesty's Ministers would have no occasion for those increased powers which it was proposed to give them by this Bill. He could point to an instance in which the vigorous execution of its duty on the part of the Government led to similar happy results in this country. In the year 1812 a general illegal organization took place throughout the manufacturing districts; the same system of intimidation that was now practised in Ireland was universally resorted to; the Magistrates shrunk from the performance of their duties; but one man came forward at his post, and, assisted by the vigorous
 101
 Mr. Wilks  thought other means than legal ones should be resorted to for the purpose of enforcing the better observance of the Sabbath. He thanked the hon. member for Stafford for the valuable communication—the result of his personal experience, which he had made to the House on the subject; and for the satisfactory proof he had in so far given of the little necessity of laws for the purpose.
 Mr. Wilks  confessed himself a strong advocate for the strict observance of the Sabbath, and therefore he most cordially gave the petition his support.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Cultar Fergusson  observed, that it was not his intention to occupy much time upon this most interesting subject on the present occasion, but he could not forbear to deliver a few observations, in addition to what he had said on a former day. The facts which he had then stated, and the atrocious acts which he had then recited, were asserted by some hon. Members to have been exaggerated. Instead, how-
 18 19
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that it was scarcely fair, that the hon. Member should take up the time of the country in an attempt on every occasion to introduce the subject of taxation, and to entertain the House from day to day with his notions on the present system of Stamp-duties. He (Mr. Fergusson) should not, however, enter into the Stamp-duties question. The question then before the House was, whether the House should receive this petition in favour of the Jews. He believed, that every description of religionist, who was not disqualified by law—and no person ought to be disqualified who was not dangerous to the State—that every such person had a right to be eligible to every office of the State, without the slightest regard to his religious principles. He found no difficulty in admitting persons of a different creed. He knew of no test which excluded them from offices of State. He did not believe, that the Jews indulged in an annual mockery of the crucifixion, as had been stated. He believed them to be as good subjects as any others; and he thought the system of moral jurisprudence would not be complete if Emancipation were longer withheld from them. There was only one oath which excluded them from the House of Commons—that was the Oath of Abjuration, when the person swearing was required to pledge himself" On the true faith of a Christian." This oath, which was first created in the reign of William 3rd, and which he wished were repealed to-morrow showed that Jews were eligible to sit in that House anterior to that time; and if it were
 16
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not think that he deserved the censure of the hon. Gentleman. He had not departed from the question which was before the House, yet the hon. Member had thought fit to blame him. He did not know what the hon. Gentleman meant by the remarks which he had made.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the petition that had been presented was equally creditable to the petitioners and to the hon. Members who had brought it forward and supported it. He fully concurred with them in lamenting the condition of the Poles; but at the same time he must observe, that it was folly to suppose that this country could render any practical assistance to that
 20 No, no Hon. Member
 Mr. Cobbett : I said a son or a brother
 Mr. Cobbett : Sir, this is a petition for
 12 13 l l l l l l 14 l
 Mr. Cobbett  remarked that there was a considerable disposition on the part of many hon. Members in that House to remove the disabilities under which the Jews laboured. When this bill, however, for promoting the better observance of the Sabbath, should have passed the House—should it so pass—it would be necessary to have some other bill respecting the observance of the Sabbath by the Jews. Their Sabbath was on the Saturday—ours was on the Sunday; so that there must either be some change of their religion on being admitted within the pale of the Constitution, as it was called, or of ours.
 7
 Mr. Cobbett : I am decidedly for the repeal of this tax, because I am for a repeal of all taxes. But as to its being a tax upon knowledge, and as to knowledge effecting all that the hon. Member who has just spoken has stated, I beg leave to doubt that very much. With regard to the utility of what is called education in preventing the increase of crime, there is no Gentleman present who will deny, that, for the last thirty years, the circulation of books, pamphlets, bibles, newspapers, &c., has increased ten-fold—and, by the bye, His very strange, too, that with a liberal Government—a Government apparently anxious to promote education among all classes too—it is very strange, I say, that Acts of Parliament should exist prohibiting, under the severest penalties, the circulation of knowledge, and the spread of that education which they seemed to have so much at heart, Tis very strange, I repeat, that under a liberal Government, as they style themselves, above 200 persons should be in prison at this moment for simply assisting in the circulation of that knowledge. But as to education preventing the increase of crime, as the learned Judge expresses in his opinion, prodigious as is the reverence I must pay to the opinion of their Lordships—prodigious, indeed, is the reverence I ought to pay to the opinion of the Bench—when I remember a learned Judge declared to a Grand Jury in York, no later than the year 1819—what sort of a Grand Jury they could be who swallowed it, I shan't say—when I find him, I say, congratulating them and the country on the existence of a National Debt; and telling them, with the gravest face, and in the most earnest manner, that the National Debt was a national blessing—it may be so to some; but it is one which my constituents have not the least relish for—pro-
 4
 Mr. Wm. Roche  had also a petition to present on this portentous and important subject—the proposal of his Majesty's Ministers to coerce the people of Ireland. It was signed by 600 of the most respectable inhabitants of St. Mary's, Limerick. They prayed that no harsh measure might be resorted to without inquiry, as it would be attended with the most mischievous effects; although they were as loyal as any class of his Majesty's subjects, they could not restrain themselves from pro-
 26
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, the hon. member for Oldham was always speaking of the disposition of the rich to oppress the poor. He denied that there was any such disposition—he denied, too, that the rich escaped the pressure of taxation. He was certainly not very rich, but he knew for himself, and he believed it was the same with the hon. member for Oldham, that he paid his proportion of taxation, and he knew of no persons who escaped. What, he asked were the Poor-rates, and the House-tax, and the other numerous taxes that fell upon landed property? He denied, again, the rich escaped taxation. [Mr.  Cobbett 8 l
 Sir C. Burrell  observed, with reference to the observation of the hon. member for Oldham—that a widow or a brother, must pay a duty of 45 l l
 Sir C. Burrell  replied, that he would then give the hon. Member the benefit of the widow. Well, then, what was the fact? That a son only paid one percent and a brother paid three per cent; therefore, the hon. member for Oldham had, as far as his statement of the law of taxation went, been considerably in error.
 Sir George Grey  said, that he trusted the House would indulge him for a few moments while he stated the reasons on which he should give his support to the present measure. It was with the greatest regret that he should give his support to this measure—a regret, not that it had been introduced, nor that it had been so introduced by the present Administration, who had justly acquired the confidence of the country by their attention to its best interests, but a regret occasioned by the paramount necessity for it which had been proved to exist. After he had heard the speech of the noble Lord who introduced the measure, and that of the right hon. Secretary, who had so forcibly and eloquently supported it, he felt that the blood shed in Ireland would rest on their heads, if they re fused to strengthen the hands of the Government, ordelay, even for the fortnight that was now asked, to pass the Bill. He denied, that he should support this Bill, as it was imputed to English Members, because it was a Bill to be applied to Ireland, about which they were reckless, but that they would not venture to support such a Bill for England. He did not regard Ireland as a province, but as an integral part of the Empire, and would deal with it under that feeling; and should the same paramount necessity for such a
 36 from. Mr. O Connell and others 37 38 39 40
 Sir Gray Skipwith  had also been requested to support the petition, but he could not do so, as he felt that the measure before the House was a necessary one.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  presented a Petition from Coventry, against the proposed coercive measures for Ireland, which they considered were intended to perpetuate the exaction of tithes.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  should not have felt it necessary to trouble the House with any observations, were it not that of the very various statements of opinions which he had heard during the debate, not one of them had expressed the sentiments which he entertained with regard to the measure under consideration. Not a Member had addressed the House during
 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35
 Sir Richard Nagle  presented petitions from Castleton and another parish in Westmeath, against the coercive measures for Ireland. He begged to state, that he had received a letter from a Gentleman in the neighbourhood of Castleton, which said, that he had not for ten years, known the country more peaceable than it was at the present moment. The unfortunate individuals, who a short time back had been driven to commit the nightly disturbances of which they had heard so much, had delivered up their arms, had returned to a sense of duty, and many of them had gone to work on the roads. The letter added that food, employment, and impartial justice, would do more to keep the country in peace than Mr. Stanley's Bill, and that the King's Speech had done more to advance the cause of Repeal than anything else could possibly have done.
 Sir Robert Inglis  begged to ask the noble Lord what course he meant to pursue to get through the business of the House. Hitherto Irish subjects had occupied almost the uninterrupted attention of the House. He regretted that the time of the House should be frittered away, or that the confidence which both sides of the House were inclined to place in the noble Lord should be diminished by his
 102
 Sir Robert Peel  spoke as follows: * * 78 79 80 81 82 from some Members 83 84 l s l l s l s s s l s l s s l s 85 l l s l s l s l s l s s l s l s l s 86 87 in quo, nec vitia nostra, nec remedia, patipossumus 88 89 90 91 92 93 from some Members 94 95 "Lapides adesos, Stirpesque raptas, et pecus et domos Volventis unà——" Hon Member: No, no 96 97 98 ——"Blood will have blood, they say; Stones have been known to move, and trees to speak; Auguries and understood relations have brought forth The secrct'st man of blood." 99
 Mr. Hutt  did not fear but that he could justify himself to his constituents and to the country, whenever he might think it necessary to address that House. He fully concurred in the prayer of the petition in favour of the unfortunate Poles; and he would assure his Majesty's Ministers that they could not possibly do an act more gracious in itself, and more important to the cause of civil and religious liberty, not merely in this country, but throughout the world, than to interfere in behalf of that gallant and brave nation, and endeavour to deliver them from all the horrors and miseries of their present condition.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that so long as the religious opinion of individuals was not inconsistent with the general welfare of society, he thought they should not and could not, in common justice, be excluded from the enjoyment of civil honours and the eligibility to fill civil situations.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that he had been requested to support the prayer of the petition, which he did with the greatest pleasure. He was most anxious and desirous to see the Sabbath, which ought to be a day of rest for all classes, properly and religiously observed throughout the country. The poor and industrious classes, who toiled throughout the week, were justly entitled to enjoy that day as a day of rest from their labours; but he thought the laws at present in existence were quite sufficient for punishing the desecration of that day.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. member for Oldham had often referred to this subject, and would refer to it, he had no doubt, day by day, till the subject was regularly brought forward. He (Lord Althorp) should not, however, enter into the discussion of it at present. He considered it unfair for the hon. member for Oldham to introduce the question thus prematurely, when the Ministers of the Crown were unprepared for it. It would have the effect of creating an impression on the public mind, which was not justified by the fact. The hon. member for Oldham had said: "Let us do justice in future." He (Lord Althorp) said so too. He had already said, that it was contemplated by his Majesty's Ministers to bring the question of Stamp-duties before Parliament, a Bill for the consolidation of the Stamp Acts being now in course of preparation, when all the subjects to which it referred could be amply discussed. He would not support taxation that should
 15
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had just heard an observation from the hon. member for Oldham, which he had frequently heard before in that House by those opposed to the principles of education—that the extension of education did not prevent the increase of crime. A great deal had lately been called education, which was only the name of education; and if real education were spread among the people, he believed that great benefit would arise, and that it would have a great effect in preventing the increase of crime. He was aware that Returns might be referred to which showed that an increase of crime had taken place dur-
 5
 Lord Althorp  said, that the objection which he had made to the Motion of Adjournment, when it was made before, was, that it was not necessary for the House to adjourn at that early period of the night. He then certainly thought, that they might go on with the discussion some time longer, not that he at all wished to prevent those Gentlemen who might be desirous to address the House from speaking, but, because it appeared to him, that to adjourn a debate of this kind at an early hour every night before its conclusion would be productive of great delay and unnecessary inconvenience. He had not, however, the same objection to the Motion for Adjournment when it was brought forward, as it now was, at a more advanced hour of the night. An hon. friend behind him suggested, that it would be better to adjourn till to-morrow, but he thought, that upon the score of convenience alone that would be objectionable.
 Lord Althorp  said, that though he wished to give every opportunity for the discussion of the measure before the House, yet he did think that this would have been its utmost limit; in this opinion he was supported by many Gentlemen. He was, generally, very much averse to opposing a motion for adjournment, but he must say, that it was hardly possible to believe the Motion was, in the present instance, made for the sole purpose of discussing the Question. After three nights debate on the first stage of the Bill, he certainly must consider the Motion in the light of an expedient for delay, and in that view must oppose it.
 An Hon. Member  begged, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Kilkenny, to assure him that there was not a more religious or a more loyal people than the population of Wales. They had built about 1,400 chapels in North and South Wales—there were altogether in Wales about 2,200 places of worship, of which about 1,400 belonged to Dissenters. As to the mode of collecting tithes, that was, in his opinion, a very great grievance, but the inhabitants of Wales generally placed the fullest reliance on his Majesty's Government, and looked to them for accomplishing such a Reform as would give general satisfaction.
 Colonel Scale  presented a Petition from Dartmouth, praying for an inquiry into the state of the
 118
 An Hon. Member  well acquainted with the Corporation of Dartmouth, had no hesitation in saying, that it was one of the most corrupt in Britain; and that a very strong feeling prevailed among the inhabitants against the system: so much so, that were a riot unfortunately to arise in that town, they would not go out with the
 119
 Mr. Romilly  thanked the noble Lord for the opportunity thus given him of correcting the misapprehension which it appeared had occurred with respect to what fell from him on a former occasion. The embarrassment he felt at addressing the House for the first time, rendered it impossible for him to be sure as to the expressions he used, but he was quite sure what his intention was. It was not to create such an impression as that of which the noble Lord had spoken. The mode in which he had introduced the subject was as an argument in answer to the remark that this Bill could not be drawn into a precedent, with regard to which he had observed, that he did not think this measure itself would have been introduced but for the example which was set in 1807, and that there were now two Members of the Government who on that occasion had likewise been members of the Government. Nothing was further from his intention than to cast any blame on the Members of the Government of 1806; and if, by what he had said, that impression was created, he was quite sure he had no intention of creating it, for if he could have had such an intention he should have been acting quite contrary to the feelings of the author of the passage, who, to the last day of his life, had entertained the strongest feelings of respect and friendship for the two Members of the Cabinet alluded to—feelings in which he (Mr. Romilly) then and now fully participated.
 An Hon. Member  said, that those who opposed the present Bill, were bound to show, either that the statements made by the noble Lord in introducing it were exaggerated or unfounded, or, failing in that, to suggest some measure which would meet the necessities of the case, None of those hon. Members who had spoken against the Bill, however, had impeached the statement of facts made by the noble Lord, or proposed any measure as a substitute for that brought forward by Ministers. The measure which was stigmatized as coercive, was coercive only so far as they obliged the Irish to obey the laws, and prevented them from plundering one another. He should be glad if a remedy for the grievances of Ireland could be discovered; and he was sure that the majority of that House was equally anxious with him to make the discovery. He would support the first reading of the Bill, because he was of opinion that it would secure the peace, and tend to the prosperity of Ireland.
 Colonel Chihester  said, that though he was as sincerely attached as his hon. and gallant friend to the principles of rational liberty, he differed widely from him on the present question. None of the speakers on the Cither side of the House had dared as yet to controvert the statements made by the noble Lord and the right hon. Secretary below him [ cheers 143 Name, name "That, half a patriot, half a coward grown I fly from petty tyrants to the throne."
 Lord Duncannon  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) on a former night, he felt himself bound, in justice to himself, and to those with whom he acted, to address a few observations to the House. That hon. Member had asked him (Lord Duncannon) how he could support this Bill, and also whether he could state, that the increase of crime in the county of Carlow had been such as to render such a bill necessary there. Now, he was ready to say that he felt it his duty to give his support—his reluctant support—to the present Bill; and also that he could state that the increase of crime in the county of Carlow had been so great, as would appear from the official return made to him since he had been appointed Lord-lieutenant of that county, as to justify and render absolutely necessary the application of such a measure there. In fact, it would appear from that return, which he would read to the House, that the increase of outrages in the county of Carlow had been as great as in any of the most disturbed counties in Ireland, with the exception of the county of Kilkenny. The return which he was about to read embraced the four quarters of the last year up to the 1st of December 1832, and the two months of December and January that had since elapsed. This return, he begged to observe, had been made to him (Lord Duncannon) by the chief constable of police in the county of Carlow. ["Hear,"  from Mr. Sheil 173 174 l l 175 l 176 177
 Mr. O,Connell  hoped the hon. Member would be heard with attention. He thought the candour of the noble Lord might have admitted that there was some disturbance while the hon. Member was speaking. Though he had been listening, he had not heard three sentences, and many on his side of the House were in the same situation. He considered half-past eleven too early for an adjournment. They had heard those who supported the measure, and it was right to hear those who opposed it. He concluded by advising Mr. Buckingham to withdraw his Motion. He might renew it if the House did not listen to him.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the proposition of the noble Lord quite reasonable. But this inconvenience was likely to interruptions might take place in the listening, and by that means the debate might be protracted. As far, however, as regarded himself, he fully concurred in the noble Lord's view.
 Mr. Baldwin  rose to continue the adjourned debate. The explanation which they had just heard given, had no doubt given great satisfaction to the noble Lord opposite; but it had given him none, for, whatever were the feelings of respect which the hon. and learned Gentleman testified to the individuals alluded to, it was impossible to forget that they were two of the Government, that in 1807 were ready to propose an Insurrection Act for Ireland, and that now brought in this tyrannical measure. It was impossible, too, that he could fail to observe (and this circumstance did gratify him) that so good, so great, and so eminent a man as Sir Samuel Romilly had been opposed to the Insurrection
 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
 Earl Jermyn  rose to order. The Church of Ireland, or the absentee Legislature of Ireland, had nothing whatever to do with the Welsh Church. If discussions of that sort were permitted, the presentation of petitions would be utterly excluded, and the time of the House would be occupied with nothing else.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had been requested to support the prayer of the petition. After what had already been said upon the subject, he would say no more than that he fully concurred in its prayer.
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  thought it very-objectionable, that when a parish was paying 2,000 l l
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  presented a Petition from certain Inhabitants of the City of Chester, connected with the principality of Wales, praying an inquiry into the state of the Church Establishment in that part of the Country. The noble Lord said, that although the petition was signed by only 100 of the inhabitants of that city, he believed it contained the sentiments not only of a majority of that city but of a large majority of the inhabitants of Wales generally. He trusted the House would allow him briefly to state what the petitioners complained of as grievances. He believed that it was pretty well known to most of those present, that the principality of Wales was divided into three districts, over which the spiritual jurisdiction was given to the Bishop of St. David's as to the southern districts, and over the northern districts the Bishops of Bangor and St. Asaph presided. In North and South Wales the situation and condition of the Church Establishment was very different, as in the north the church was rich, while in the south, on the contrary, it was rather poor. The petitioners complained that the great tithes were for the most part paid to the Bishops, Deans, and Chapters of St. Asaph, Lich-
 105 l l l l l l l l 106
 Lord Willam Lennox  said, a petition had been presented against the return for Windsor, and afterwards withdrawn. It appeared to him rather extraordinary that it should have been withdrawn if the statement contained in the present petition was true.
 Major Fancourt  said, that, as an Englishman, he felt bound to oppose the Bill. He could assure the House, that, under ordinary circumstances, a just diffidence would have deterred him from presenting himself to their notice, but the very magnitude of the present question compelled him to conquer that diffidence as far as he could. He could not, consistently with his own feelings and convictions, give a silent vote on this question, when, in his opinion, a death-blow was levelled at the very principle of constitutional freedom. But at the same time he begged to assure his Majesty's Government that he was actuated by no disposition to join a factious opposition against them. As far as he could learn, no such opposition existed; at all events, such an opposition against any Government he never would condescend to join. It was simply in the character of an independent English Member of that House, that he stood forward to resist the utter abolition of the spirit of independence in Ireland; and though, after the many eloquent appeals which had been made from that side of the House by the chosen advocates of that distracted country, nothing which he could advance would be worthy of arresting the attention of his Majesty's advisers; still, as there were one or two points connected with the question which he would willingly suggest to the consideration of the House, he trusted he should not look in vain for that courteous
 136 137 138 139 140 141 142
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that he heard so many indications of disapprobation expressed when any hon. Member rose to speak against the Bill, that he felt almost inclined to move the adjournment of the debate. He had observed that hon. Members on the opposite side, had remarked that no facts had been adduced by the opponents of the measure, to prove that it was unnecessary, Now, he would confine himself almost exclusively to facts; and he trusted they would have as much weight with
 186 con 187 amore * * * Stanley 188 Dunciad 189 190 l 191 192 "X. F. Kelly, Archbishop, &c. "To A. Carew O'Dwyer, Esq., M. P." was 193 Habeas Corpus
 Mr. C. W. Wynn explained, that what was meant by a sinecure rectory was, that a rectory was separate from a vicarage. The rector was sometimes a layman, with no ecclesiastical duties to perform, and therefore there could be no benefit in enforcing residence regarding him, for if it were enforced he could not perform any duties.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, highly as he respected his neighbours in the city of Chester, he thought the complaints of grievances in Wales, if any such could be made, would come with a better grace from the parties who resided in Wales, and who experienced those grievances; at the same time he must agree that it was open to every member of the Established Church to state any circumstances which he might think were prejudicial to that Establishment. Those persons, though not personally affected by the existence of
 107 108 109
 Mr. Harvey  did not intend to occupy the House many minutes, the question involved so many important considerations as to render it impossible properly to discuss it at the present moment. He had, however, heard some observations which he felt compelled to notice: the remarks which had been made with respect to the dissenters, by the hon. member for Oldham, he could not allow to pass without entering his protest against them. That hon. Member had stated, that where there was no church the inhabitants either frequented the public-house, or went to the methodist chapel, as if it was little more than an alternative of evils. He attached great imprtance to these incidental discussions, as opening the eyes of the public and of the House to the principle of Church Establishments. He was surprised the other night, at the manner in which Gentlemen received an observation he had made upon that subject. It appeared as if they did not understand the great distinction between the Church and an establishment. An establishment might be Christian or Mahometan. All establishments were intended to support a particular system of religion, and might be abolished or not, as the State thought fit. But the Church, in its large and scriptural sense, meant the Christian religion, and would stand if the Establishment were done away with, and tithes abolished. If the Christian Church were thrown upon the good feeling and spiritual desire of the nation, if it were dispensed from all earthly rights, he conscientiously believed, that it would be supported as well as, or better than, it was now. The experience of all ages proved, that from the earliest dawn of Christianity to the present hour, it had flourished in greater purity and vigour when unconnected with the State, than when supported by it.
 Mr. Sanford  would take that opportunity of inquiring if it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to do anything on the subject of the non-residence of clergy?
 Mr. Wilbraham  was desirous of making a few observations on this occasion, as he had been particularly requested by many of his friends in Wales to do so. The petition came from persons, like himself, friends to the Church of England, who did not wish to take advantage of her imperfections, but rather to see them cured. He considered the picture, however, which it drew of the state of the church of England in Wales to be over-coloured. It was most important that the House should thoroughly understand that the Welsh Bishops did not understand the language of the country over which they presided: and it was impossible they could perform their duties without a knowledge of such language. There had also been an exclusive system of appointing Englishmen to be Welsh Bishops. There had not been an instance of a native Welshman being appointed a Bishop since the reign of the Hanoverian Family. This was a state of things that ought not to have so long existed. It could not be said, that the reason was, that the Welsh were not capable of being appointed to the Bishops' Bench, because there had been several instances of Welshmen having translated the Bible into their native language, and of having shown acquirements calculated to entitle them to any situation, however high. If a knowledge of the language was not to be required of the Bishops, at all events no man could deny that the clergy at large ought to possess it. It had been declared by one of them that it was repugnant to the will of God that any person should presume to preach to the people in a language not known to them. The cure of souls without that knowledge was unintelligible to him. According to the system that had been pursued, he knew not what was meant by it. As to sinecures, or pluralities he knew, that one gentleman in North Wales was in
 110
 Mr. Barron  had never heard more extraordinary language than that used by the hon. Baronet. He (Mr. Barron) had the honour of being sent to that House by the people—by that class of the people to whom the late Parliament gave the power of sending Representatives to Parliament. He had aspired to a seat in consequence of three requisitions sent to him by the people of Waterford, and at their request he came forward. They knew his opinion before they elected him, but he denied that he had adopted those opinions in order to obtain a seat in Parliament. In giving his support to those who opposed this Bill, he did so, not from personal feelings, but from a sincere conviction of its dangerous tendency. He protested against the Bill, because it would infallibly cause a separation between the two coun-
 147 148 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 149 Habeas Corpus 150 151 The Standard Morning Post 152 l l Habeas Corpus 153 s coughing and "Question
 Mr. Lambert  said, there were two questions before the House—whether additional powers ought to be granted to Government, and whether the precise powers demanded were those best calculated to restore tranquillity? The speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, able as it undoubtedly was, threw no considerable light on the subject; it was too much occupied with personal invective, and two little with the sound views of a judicious statesman; that speech contained a melancholy statement of crime, but it contained no sentiment of commiseration—it communicated no hopes of relief, and gave not the slightest promise of the beginning of that retribution and compensation which should atone to Ireland for centuries of misgovernment. The condition of Ireland was, however, correctly described in the speech. It was with a feeling of deep humiliation he heard the record of atrocities detailed, which struck at the root of all social order in Ireland; and he acknowledged that the moment was come when it must be decided whether the King's Government or agitation should be put down. The system of outrage had extended into the county of Wexford, which he had the honour to represent—a county during a long period distinguished for the tranquil-
 156 157 158
 Mr. Buckingham  said, he should be happy to resume his speech. He expressed his decided hostility to this Bill on various grounds, but more particularly to that portion of it which substituted Courts-martial for the ordinary tribunals of the country,
 178
 Mr. Buckingham  addressed the House in opposition to the Bill, as was under-stood, for the unwillingness of the House to hear the hon. Member was so great, and the noise so much, that it was impossible to catch the purport of his remarks. It was ascertained that he objected to confiding such large powers to the Government, that the best way to strengthen a Government was to convince the nation that it was just, that the Irish were a generous and confiding people more likely to be affronted than reconciled to the Government by a law such as that proposed, and that the surest and most effectual method of putting an end to outrage was to do justice to the people of Ireland. The hon. Member at length observed, that if the House would not permit him to proceed, he should move an adjournment, which he accordingly did, and on its being seconded,
 Mr. Emmerson Tennent  was desirous in contributing his support to the measure under the consideration of the House to state as briefly as possible the considerations which would induce him to do so—not from any vanity in supposing that the expression of his opinions would exercise any influence in forming the opinions of others, but because he would not wish to appear rashly, and without due consideration to decide upon a measure so momentous in its nature, and so very rare in its enactment. In travelling out of the ordinary course of legislation as it was proposed to do in the present instance, two considerations naturally forced themselves upon the attention of the House, the one, the conjuncture of affairs which rendered such a divergence necessary—the other, the efficiency of the contemplated measure for meeting that imperative emergency. On both these grounds he felt that he was perfectly justified in supporting the Bill now pending. After the exposition of the affairs of Ireland which had occupied, he might say exclusively, the attention of the House since the commencement of the preserit Session; after the statements which they had had not only from Gentlemen on that, the Ministerial side of
 159 "Our decrees Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead." 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 167 168 in toto
 Mr. Bulteel  stated, that he was requested by a numerous body of the inhabitants of Dartmouth, to support its prayer. He trusted the petitioners would fully participate in the advantages that had been promised them by the Reform Bill. The inhabitants had hitherto been divided into two parties, and he assured the House that any alteration would benefit the town, and could not make it worse.
 Mr. Sheil  presented a Petition from 155 of the electors of New Windsor praying the House to prevent the officers of his Majesty's establishment from interfering in any way whatever with the freedom of election. The petition stated facts which were well deserving the attention of the House. It stated, that at the last election the freedom of election had been grossly abused by the interference and influence of his Majesty's Household Officers, compelling persons dependent on his Majesty to vote for a person named by them. That Sir Frederick Watson and different officers of the Household appeared at the last election, and did all in their power for the purpose of influencing electors—that by their undue promises of their influence from their situation, they induced many persons to vote for Sir Samuel J. B. Pechell. They (the officers) stated, that Sir John was a personal friend of his Majesty, and that it was necessary they should vote for him, &c. Persons had been sent from Brighton to vote for this individual, and it was alleged that the Earl of Belfast, one of the Household, had attended in the hall, to see that they did so vote. He (Mr. Shell) had apprized Lord Belfast that his name was introduced into the Petition, and had requested him to name the subject to Sir John Pechell. Lord Belfast had stated, that he was certainly at the election, but that he went there only from motives of curiosity. The petition was not signed by persons who were wholly undeserving of regard, for it was signed by 155 persons, all of them voters.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that statements of facts had been made in that house which a regard to correctness ought to have prevented. They ought never to have been hazarded without better grounds. He hoped the hon. member for Oldham would abstain, for the future, from making statements to the House without making himself satisfied of their correctness. He (Mr. Fergusson) was quite convinced, that it would be more consistent with that hon. Member's own dignity, as well as with his character in that House, if he would ascertain the correctness of every fact before he brought such subjects as he frequently indulged in under the notice of the House. Upon a former evening, when the member for Oldham brought forward a motion on the subject of the Stamp Acts, he stated the most atrocious facts, which had no foundation in truth, and which he (Mr. Fergusson) had the honour at the time to controvert. The facts also which the hon. Member affirmed respecting the Jews were of the most atrocious nature. He had since taken an opportunity of communicating with the chief Rabbi of the Jews on that subject, and the result was, that he was empowered to say, that the statements hazarded by the hon. member for Oldham were utterly without foundation.
 Mr. Bayntun  said, as he should shortly be called upon to vote on this most important question, if he did not with regret pursue a different course to what he generally had followed since he had a scat in that House, in opposing his Majesty's Ministers, he should not have offered any observations to the House, knowing, as he well must, that most other hon. Members would be listened to with greater attention than he should. He should, therefore, state as concisely as possible, the reasons why he should support the proposition of the right hon. member for Lambeth, which, if carried, would amount, he thought, to a defeat of this measure. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the
 180 181 182 pari passu 183 Habeas Corpus Uno avulso non deficit alter; 184 185
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  moved the further Adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. Estcourt  rose to complain of the observations addressed to the House by the hon. member for Oldham. A petition had been presented, relative to the mode of performing the Church service in Wales, and the hon. Member had taken advantage of that to refer to a subject not before the House. He protested against that sort of application of the hon. Member's ingenuity; and he cautioned the House against countenancing any such statements. That hon. Member would have the House believe, that of 10,000 benefices in England, there were but 4,000 resident incumbents. He (Mr. Estcourt) did not recollect what the Returns were, and therefore he was not prepared to deny that statement; but he put it to the observation of hon. Members, whether they believed there were such a number of non-resident clergymen. As far as had fallen under his own observation, he was persuaded that the assertion was not true. He knew that the Bench of Bishops were most earnest in enforcing residence, and therefore the insinuation that the Bishops had put a very convenient construction on the Act of Parliament was unfounded. The hon. Member might perhaps be able to put Ids finger upon some particular parish, where no clergyman resided, but the general fact was not as he
 114
 Mr. Fitzgerald : As a representative of one of the counties in Ireland, to which particular allusion had been made in this debate, and as one of those which the right. hon. Secretary for Ireland states is in a state of disturbance beyond the ordinary powers of the law to put down, I hope I may be allowed to claim attention to detail a few facts to rescue it from this unjust imputation, and to place it in its true position before the House and the country. The right hon. Gentleman has given a recital of crime in Ireland, which must create horror in the mind of every man; but I followed him in his various details, and all that he has charged to the county of Louth amounts to this.—Two letters containing general assertions, and not of recent date, some windows broken, and one witness and a Juror being prevented by fear from doing their duty. Now, Sir, as to the windows, I fully admit it, and a good deal more; for there was, I regret to say, much outrage done in plundering arms and private property; but I do say, thank God, that no crime of
 169 170 171 172
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that, with all respect to the hon. Member (Mr. O'Dwyer), he must be permitted to say, that the attack which he had thought proper to make on the character of a respectable Judge in Ireland was most unjustifiable. In undertaking the defence of that gentleman, it would, perhaps, be necessary for him to occupy more of the time of the House than, at that late hour of the night, he thought would be proper. He would, therefore, consult the feelings of the House, and on its decision would cither proceed, or defer the defence he had to make till to-morrow.
 Mr. Cobbett  had not been inattentive to the present discussion, nor was he when the Act passed, to which the hon. Baronet had alluded. When that Act passed, he had warned the country, that, in a few years, it would prove the ruin of the Church. The Act was brought in by Lord Stowell, then Sir William Scott, who was member for one of the Universities, and he did that at the call of his constituents, in order to relieve them from between. 700 and 800 informations which had been laid against them for non-residence under the 13th of the reign of Elizabeth. He had a notice of a motion on the books of the House, for a Return of the exact number of actions thus quashed by this law, which he considered one of the most unjust Acts ever passed by any legislative assembly. Such was, in fact, the number of informations that was quashed by that most infamous Act—infamous it certainly was, for it was a  post facto 112 John Wrottesley 113 l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the hon. member for the University of Oxford had declared, that he had mis-stated a fact about the non-residence of the clergy. Now he spoke from the return. He said, that out of 10,000 parishes and upwards, England and Wales, there were but 4,000 that had resident incumbencies. He might have added, that, in nearly 300 parishes in England and Wales, the churches had been suffered to fall down, and he might have gone on to have added that the clergy still continued to receive the tithes from those parishes.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, this was a question very Intimately connected with what they had previously been considering. By the returns it would be seen, that there were be-
 116
 Mr. Finn  had only risen to answer the observations of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Finn  said, he would confine himself to the question as laid down. Where there was true religion, and a love for any particular form of worship, its supporters would never seek assistance from the State. As a striking instance of what he said, let them look at his own country, where the people, impoverished and burthened as they were, erected places of worship in abundance without one shilling of help. They might pull down religion by riches, but they would
 111
 Mr. Finn  would not have risen had it not been that the noble Lord introduced the question of Repeal of the Union. He had said, that in the principality of Wales you have absentee Bishops and clergymen, and why in Ireland should you not have absentee landlords? In Wales, at least, one-third of the people belonged to the Establishment; but in Ireland not one sixteenth belonged to it. In Ireland they had an absentee Legislature, and an absentee proprietary, drawing upwards of 5,000,000 l
 Mr. Finn  rose to order. He had never in any assembly heard such opprobrious language.
 The Speaker  hoped the hon. Member would see that there was a difference between what he (Mr. Finn) considered good taste, and what the House considered out of order.
 The Speaker  observed, that the remark of the noble Lord was not only-unquestionably correct, according to the rules of the House, but the observance of the rule was absolutely necessary to the progress of its business. The observations of hon. Members should have reference to the subject before the House. Whether the illustration which had been made by the noble Lord was apt or not, he was not called upon to decide. He trusted, that the hon. Member, after what had been stated, would not pursue his observations with respect to Ireland.
 Sir Harry Verney  observed, that he could not allow the present opportunity to pass, without stating, that in order to give confidence to the country on the subject now under consideration, the principle ought to be stated on which the House was prepared to legislate on this subject. That principle ought to be that which every good christian would advocate—namely, the due observance of the Sabbath. However much the dissenting clergy might be valued, he felt no hesitation in saying, that the clergy of the Church of England were the most valuable class of persons in the country. A pious clergyman living among his parishioners, and feeding his flock, not only taking their wool, but giving them religious sustenance, belonged to a most valuable and
 117
 Sir Harry Verney  wished it to be understood, that he had not meant to speak in terms of disrespect of the dissenters, but merely when there was an evident attempt to depreciate the services of the Church of England, to defend its ministers.
 Mr. Ward  said, the proposal to adjourn the House at half-past eleven came with a very bad grace from the hon. Member, who had proposed to limit the time of each Member's speaking to a quarter of an hour, when he had himself exceeded that time. How had the brunt of the debate been allowed to fall on the minor fry of debaters (of which he allowed that he was one)? The Opposition attempted in vain to obscure a subject, over which the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had shed so overwhelming a flood of light. He should state the reasons why he disapproved of the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, the member for Lambeth, and approved the main principles of the Bill brought in by his Majesty's Government. But for what had fallen from the hon. member for Waterford, he should have thought that what had been said by a right hon. Baronet would have been sufficient to show that a more palpable evasion of the question had never been submitted to a deliberative Assembly. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had challenged the production of proof of the necessity of this measure at the bar, and pledged himself to refute it; and nothing was apparently more candid. But they knew, that evidence could not be given honestly at the bar of that House, without the destruction of the party who gave it. He would be denounced, proscribed, and compelled to pass his life an exile from his country. It would not be in the power even of the hon. and learned member for Dublin to save him or to quell that spirit which sprung from the agitation of which he was the centre. It was most important for Irish Members to know that there was no indisposition in that House to do justice to Ireland, and to listen to their arguments; but every English Member must be convinced that this measure
 179
 Sir John Wrottesley  was sure that it was impossible to leave this subject now without some legislative enactment; but he hoped that enactment would not be such an extension of law as to prevent its being carried into execution. He hoped, that those who might prepare the Bill, would take care to introduce such provisions as would meet with the general concurrence of the people of this country, without which it would be impossible to have any effective law on the subject. He saw no reason why public-houses, for instance, should be open from twelve o'clock on Saturday night till one on Sunday morning. After one on the Sunday, his opinion was, that public-houses might be perfectly free to entertain persons in all the large towns who were in the habit of conducting themselves properly.
 Sir John Wrottesley considered, that the great evil which prevailed in the Church was non-residence. On this subject there was a great anxiety throughout the whole country, and he, therefore, trusted, that the present Session would not pass over without some means being adopted for insisting upon the clergy residing in their own cures, and effectually doing their duty. In demanding that, he required nothing new, for by an Act of Henry 8th, parishioners were empowered to enforce the residence of their clergyman, and what he wished was, to bring back that state of things. A most improvident Act was passed in the reign of Geo. 3rd, merely because it was found to press severely on clergymen who had large families and small livings. That Act, instead of insisting upon and enforcing residence, in some cases legalized it, and placed the whole of the power in the hands of the Bishops, who, he hoped, used it well and properly; but he was much afraid they too often allowed themselves to be led away by their kindness of heart. He hoped, that in any measure regarding non-residence, those persons who were most interested in the question, the parishioners would have the power of enforcing that which was their right—the residence of their pastor.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  said, he was willing to believe, that it was with great pain that Ministers had brought before the House such a measure as the present. That pain, however, was not confined to themselves, for, on the contrary, it extended itself to the breasts of all those hon. and independent Members whom Ministers thus placed in a very serious dilemma. It was not now that, for the first time, he felt these sentiments, for he entertained them since the first hour when the unfortunate Address had introduced these measures in so mischievous a manner. As to those wretches who committed those culpable and atrocious acts which could not be palliated, he should not grieve if he could for an instant conceive the shadow of a shade of a possibility of a notion that to them only would the operation of these measures be confined; but, on the contrary, be was opposed to the Bill because it was quite as applicable to the innocent as to the guilty. The Bill before them had two objects; the first—that of putting down illegal associations; the second, that of repressing local disturbances in Ireland. On the second part of the Bill, he contended that Ministers had made out no case. With respect to the first, however, he entertained a different opinion, for be thought the Volunteer Association ought not to be suffered to exist. He did not mean to impute illegal motives to those who had
 154 155
 Sir Robert Bateson  proceeded—he begged to assure the hon. Member that he had not contemplated or intended to give him any offence, for he had not the most distant idea of alluding to the hon. Member; he only asserted what he believed to be the fact, that there were in that House persons pledged to certain questions, and he was, as he had a right to do, giving his sentiments upon such pledges: but if the hon. Member was so pressing, and if hon. Members would apply this general observation to themselves, he certainly, however he might regret it, could not prevent their doing so. He spoke as he was entitled to do, as the Representative of a loyal intelligent constituency, and their sentiments were decidedly that, protection to life and property was imperatively called for. In his own name, and as representing the feelings of the people of the north of Ireland, he would support this measure.
 Sir Robert Bateson  thought the case laid before the House by his Majesty's Ministers, carried conviction with it of the necessity of the present Bill; and he rose—as the Representative of a numerous constituency, and as representing not only their feelings, but the feelings of the whole of the people of the north of Ireland—to express his and their concurrence in that measure. He had heard hon. Members from Ireland speak as if the Irish Members were confined to one part of that country, and as if the opinions of all Ireland were expressed by those Members. He had come from Ireland within the last few days, and he could say, that in the part of it where he was, all the property, all the moral worth, and all the integrity of the country, was in favour of intrusting his Majesty's Ministers with powers to put an end to the horrid state to which Ireland was reduced. It was not, however, for him to go into the details of the Bill; the present was not the proper stage to do so, nor should be pledge himself to agree to the measure as it now stood; but he would vote for it, and that because no period in the history of any country ever showed such a necessity for vigorous and strong measures as Ireland now did. He was not about to argue whether the pilot who steered the vessel on to the rocks, and among the shoals, was or was not ignorant or misguided, but all he urged was, the necessity for saving the ship by easing her, by cutting away her masts and rigging, and throwing her cargo overboard—and it could be done by nothing less. In the course of this debate he had heard a great deal about the liberty of the subject, and the tyranny that was going to be exercised in Ireland. Now, it was to get rid of the most odious tyranny which had ever existed, that he was prepared to intrust strong measures to the Grovernment of Ireland. If that Government wished to save Ireland from all the horrors of rebellion and revolution, it must put an end to the agitation which prevailed there—agitation of which the object was to goad on the peasantry to measures which could only end in their destruction. Hon. Gentlemen had spoken of the injustice of imposing upon Ireland a law which gave the right of nightly search in suspected houses; but they had not said a word of the nightly outrages of marauders, who burnt men in their beds, and
 145 146
 Lord Althorp  thought it somewhat unusual for an hon. Member to attempt to adjourn the business of the House, merely because he was not attended to quite so much as he wished. If the hon. Member had had more experience in the House, he would not have proposed to adopt such a course. For his own part he heard perfectly well what the hon. Member said. He hoped the hon. Member would not persist in his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  rose, and observed, that he was quite aware that there were many Gentlemen who still would have to address the House on the question, and, therefore, it was not likely the debate would close that night. He was under some apprehension, however, that it might not even be closed to-morrow, and he should rather be inclined to hear the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Lefroy) address the House at once, unless a full understanding were come to, that the debate should be closed to-morrow.
 Lord Althorp  said, that already during the discussion one hon. Member had been called to order for adverting to a subject not before the House, and he put it to the hon. Member, whether in bringing forward any observations respecting the Jews, he thought they had anything to do with the petition they were now discussing?
 Lord Althorp  said, that various questions relating to a Reform in the Church of
 115
 Lord Althorp  said, he spoke in great ignorance of the subject, but he should really hope that no improper interference whatever had been used. Every one knew that in elections, when persons connected with candidates canvassed, it was often the case that the disappointed party attributed an improper interference in favour of the successful candidates. He was aware of Lord Belfast's name being introduced into the petition, but he was not aware of any other part of it. Lord Belfast was present at the election merely from curiosity, and not for the purpose of influence.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that there was nothing in the arguments of the hon. Member who last addressed the House, to call for particular observation. With the threats and menaces thrown out by the hon. Member—more numerous than he recollected to have been thrown out on any political question—he had nothing to do, and left it to the members of his Majesty's Government to rebut them, and he trusted that the Government would be prepared to crush any attempt that might be made to carry them into effect. He would deal with the question before the House, and he would confess that it was with sorrow, and with shame, that he saw such measures about to be adapted towards his country. He called it his country, as he thought it as much his as theirs, who seemed to think it their especial country. Every impartial person that had heard the splendid speech delivered a few evenings before by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) near him, must be convinced of the necessity of the measures now proposed, and that there existed no longer any respect for the Constitution in Ireland, since a series of the most dismal outrages, murders, and burnings, was carried on there. He considered, that all the evils that afflicted his unhappy country sprang from agitation—from agitation; no matter whether it was that of the Corn Exchange, or of the Castle. He thought that Government had not been sufficiently careful—that it had thrown out too many hints, encouraging, instead of opposing, agitation. Measures respecting the Church and Tithes had been too much talked of by his Majesty's Ministers; and he would ask, how could any man in Ireland be expected to pay tithes, after the remarks that had been made by the right hon. Secretary opposite? Having said, that agitation was the cause of the evils of Ireland, he would state as a proof of his assertion, that that part of Ireland which was not worked upon by agitators, was perfectly tranquil. It gave him great
 134
 Lord Howick  said, that before the debate was resumed, he wished to take that opportunity of setting right a misunderstanding that had gone abroad in consequence of the speech of the hon. and learned member for Bridport, delivered on a former evening. That hon. and learned Member had read a passage from a journal of Sir Samuel Romilly's to show, that in the year 1807 the Government of that day had been prepared to bring in an Insurrection Act for Ireland, which they did not think proper to mention to the then law officers of the Crown; and it was understood, that one of the reasons on which the hon. and learned member for Bridport did not think fit to give his support to the Government on the present Bill was, that two of the Members of the Government of that day were now in office. He (Lord Howick) believed that that was a misunderstanding of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member, but at all events, it was right, that the House should know what were the circumstances alluded to. It was perfectly true, that an Act for the Suppression of Insurrection in Ireland was in the contemplation of the Government of that day—that a Bill for that purpose was drawn up in Ireland, and was submitted to and approved by Mr. Grattan. It was then sent to this country, which it reached only a few days before the Government of that time was broken up. The draft of the Bill was sent to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, but just at that moment began those discussions which ended in the breaking up of the Government. It so happened that his father, who then represented the Government in that House, had actually received the draft of the Bill, but had not had time to read it. It was fit that this circumstance should be known, in order that the impression which had been created
 121
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that on meeting on the next day to receive petitions, none should be presented but those which related to the Coercive Bill.
 Mr. Ruthvend  said, that seeing the state of impatience in which the House was, he would not address them at any extraordinary length. He must complain, however, of the manner in which a mea-sure of such importance to Ireland was hurried through the House. He admitted the outrages committed by the Whitefeet, but thought that it was not by totally annihilating the Constitution, they should endeavour to repress those injuries. He complained of the manner in which the Irish Magistrates performed their duties, and attributed many of the evils of which the people had to complain to that cause. As an instance of their neglect of duty, he stated that, out of 9,000 persons committed for trial in one year in Ireland, only 5,000 had been convicted; and he would ask the House, if Magistrates could be said to do their duty who committed 4,000 innocent persons to prison. He must condemn the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, for the greater part of it had nothing to do with the question before the House. He contended that it was monstrous to think of afflicting Ireland with so tyrannical a measure as that before the House. What were the statements that had been made?
 216 Go on, go on
 Mr. Ruthven  said, he had no wish to be disorderly. He had ventured upon no tirade. He had merely stated facts, and he had a perfect right to do so without giving any notice to any party. Nor would he be led from his course. The reverend gentleman said to the poor widow, "You"—
 Mr. Ruthven  would not say one word more upon the subject which could be considered out of order. He did not think, however, that it was disorderly to state that Mr. Dwyer, the clergyman, was fined 10 l 218 No, no!" from the Ministerial Benches
 Mr. Ruthven : Yes, it was; I saw it; it was in the county of Down. I can bring the most incontestible evidence of the truth of what I say.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that he had indisputable proof of the correctness of his statements.
 Mr. Ruthven  apologised. He had not conceived that the endeavour to substantiate statements was disorderly. What he had said with respect to personal observation referred to the presence of Sir W. Wynn's regiment in Ireland, not to the affair of the bridle. However, without mentioning names, he would say, that this dreadful punishment, worse than any other, could be proved. He did not say, that such a case had occurred in England; but he could fully prove it had occurred in Ireland—though he had forgotten, nothing could be too bad for the rebel Irish. He begged leave to cite an opinion expressed by Mr. Stanley in 1824, in which he himself (Mr. Ruthven) fully concurred, nor could conceive how an alteration of opinion had been brought about in that right hon. Secretary, and other Gentlemen on that side of the House. The opinion of the right hon. Gentleman at the period mentioned, was "that the worst affliction under which Ireland laboured, was the entire ignorance of those who legislated for her, of the real evils she was suffering under." It was, therefore, incumbent upon Ireland to let these evils be fully known to those legislators. But the real question before the House was not a mere question about Ireland, but a question of English liberty—of the British Constitution—of general reform; it was to see whether the present Reform Ministry were to tyrannize worse than any Tory Ministry had ever done. Including police and the military, in 145 barracks and twenty forts nearly 30,000 men were found necessary to keep the peace but very indifferently in Ireland. This force had been found inefficient for its object by the Government but notwithstanding the enormous expense of this great body of troops, and the constabulary force already in existence in Ireland, the English people were to be called upon to raise additional taxes to support a further importation of soldiery into that country. Certainly the Irish ought to be very grateful to the English for distributing their guineas so liberally amongst them; never were they more in request there. He would not detain the House much longer. He would only quote some passages from a speech of Lord Althorp's in 1824, to
 220
 Mr. O'Connell : I only wish to remind Gentlemen that the question will be put on the amendment. The question on which the House will decide is, whether the word "now" shall stand part of the question: that is, whether the Bill shall now be read a first time or not. A good deal of speaking might have been spared by remembering that a good many observations have been made, which did not go to decide the question whether the Bill shall now be read a first time. I am bound to say, that the amendment is extremely well calculated to elicit the real nature of the measure, which goes to destroy the Constitution of Ireland, and to which it is most certainly felt, that one fortnight's delay would be fatal. With these preliminary observations, I shall proceed to call the attention of the House to the real question it has to decide. The Legislature is now to decide if this sort of law shall be applied to both parts of the British empire. It is one which relates to the mode of governing Ireland. Are we now to follow the former precedents of the British Government? Are we to continue the old system, or are we to make Ireland a part of the British empire? What is implied in the consideration of the question—has Ireland ever benefited by the connexion with England? What
 229 230 231 232 habeas corpus 233 234 bonâ fide habeas corpus A laugh 235 236 The Dublin Gazette The Dublin Gazette The Dublin Gazette No, no Name, name 237 viginti annorum lucubrationes 238 239 Habeas Corpus 240 stanley 241 ex post facto 242 243 244 from Captain Berkeley Berkeley: 245 246 l l from Mr. Macaulay Dublin Morning Register Pilot Freeman's Journal 247 Edinburgh Review 248 249 l 250 251 252 253
 Mr. O'Connell : All I can say is, I have taken down the noble Lord's words, and that he stated, when reading from a document, that "no witness had been injured." But it was said they had been intimidated; but the House has not heard the name of a single witness who has been injured. Witnesses allege that they have been threatened, for they have a deep interest, as it is the invariable practice in the case of such threats being used, to remove the witness from the abode of wretchedness to a place where he can live in plenty. One instance has been brought forward by the right hon. Baronet, which occurred nineteen years ago, of two witnesses, husband and wife, of the name of Delain. The barony of Collaugh was much disturbed, and these persons came forward as witnesses on a Crown prosecution. I defended the prisoners. The husband, Delain, gave a very good, and a very consistent account of what he wished the Jury to believe to have been the na-
 254 255 Habeas Corpus 256 257 258 259 "See all things clear With fifteen hundred pounds a-year;" 260 261 d d l l 262 263 264 Habeas Corpus 265 hear, hear 266 s d l l Stanley: 267 Stanley: 268 269 270 No, no 271 272 Habeas Corpus
 Colonel Davies  remarked, that such must be the consequence, if Members would not exercise a proper degree of discre-
 201
 Lord Ashley  answered that he had no wish whatever to appear discourteous to the Government, but he trusted, that the House would consider the situation in which he was placed.
 Colonel Perceval  rose to order. He could not sit silent and hear a most respectable clergyman so spoken of he had had the honour of Mr. Dwyer's intimate acquaintance for twenty years, and he knew him to be a most respectable Gentleman. He was surprised that the hon. Gentleman would bring forward charges against a clergyman couched in such gross language, in that informal manner. He (Colonel Perceval) thought, if the charges were founded in truth, it would have been more regular to inform the House before
 217
 Mr. Littleton  presented the Report of the Select Committee on Public Petitions.
 Mr. Littleton  thought some resolution should be passed, limiting the right of every hon. Member in speaking on the presentation of a petition to an exposition of the facts it stated.
 Mr. Warburton  begged to call the attention of the House to the practice of Gentlemen putting down their names on the list for their turn to present petitions. In the list there were duplicate names, and in some instances triple ones; if these Gentlemen, whenever their turns came, according to the way the present list was made out, presented petitions, they would exclude other Members from that privilege, which had been the effect since the new arrangements had been made. The hon. Member submitted, that the better and more regular rule would be, that whenever a Gentleman presented a number of petitions, he should immediately strike his name out, and insert it again at the bottom of the list. By this means hon. Gentlemen would have ample opportunity of presenting those petitions intrusted to them.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that during the days in which the new arrangement had been carried into effect, but sixty-four petitions had been disposed of. There were now above 300 names on the Speaker's list, and proceeding as they had done, all the petitions now down on that list could not be presented in six weeks.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was of opinion, that the petitions of the people, expressive of their sentiments, could never be heard or known in that House, unless Members would resolve not uselessly to express their own, but, to confine their observations to some statement of fact, impugning the petition, or defending it if impugned by others.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  thought it would not be possible strictly to adhere to that plan.
 Mr. Lefroy  moved the Order of the Day for resuming the Adjourned Debate on the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill. He then addressed the House in support of the measure. He would compress his observations into the narrowest compass possible, but he must, in the first instance, advert to the attack which, on the preceding night, had been made upon the character of a learned Judge, who stood as high in the esteem of all men of worth and consideration in Ireland as it was possible for any man on the Bench. It had been said by the hon. member for Drogheda, from whom that attack proceeded, that the eminent person in question had sacrificed a principle for the sake of an antithesis; and it was asserted, that he had done that at a time when he was engaged in the solemn duty of charging a Grand Jury. Were he (Mr. Lefroy) to sit silent, and listen to such a charge, he should be unworthy of the acquaintance of that learned Judge, which he had had the happiness of enjoying now for nearly thirty years, the greater part of which he was on the Bench. He should also be unworthy of the place which be held in his profession, if he omitted to assure the House that the charge was altogether groundless. A more constitutional, humane, and upright Judge,
 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 213 214 215 s d
 Mr. Cobbett : I move the adjournment of the debate. We have heard a great deal from the other side of the House of midnight murders and assassinations. If this Bill pass, it will be the murder of the Constitution. If we must murder it, at least let us murder it by daylight.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had no wish to be obstinate. He was not present when the sort of engagement was made to which the noble Lord had alluded; but if the seconder of his Motion acquiesced in his withdrawing it, he had no objection to withdraw it.
 Mr. Cobbett  denied, that he had made speeches on Friday last. He had certainly made observations that were naturally suggested by the petitions then presented. He could suggest a remedy for the evil now complained of, and one that would satisfy the people. It was this, that all the petitions should be read at length, and Members make no speeches at all; and that all which they thought fit to receive should be printed. The people wanted to hear their own sentiments—not those of the Members. This would
 202
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had several petitions to present against the coercive Bill for Ireland, and according to the present arrangements, that Bill would be passed before he could present these petitions.
 Mr. Daunt  did not mean to detain the House long; but his duty to his country and his constituents would not permit him to suffer that atrocious Bill to pass without protesting against it. Ministers, he declared, had made out no case against Ireland to justify putting her out of the pale of the Constitution. They had, indeed, strung together a long list of outrages—they had weaved them into something like a combination, and they said, let us have Martial-law to put them down. They had raked together all the New gate Calendars of Ireland, and by them they thought to frighten the House of Commons into suspending the  Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 226 Laughter 227 228
 Sir Charles Coote  rose, out of a sense of duty to his country and constituents, to defend the Magistrates and the Gentry of Queen's County, from the attacks which
 223 224 225
 The Speaker  observed, that as the House would meet early to-morrow, and he should be punctual, and as a great body of the Members had heard what had just passed, it would be in their power to show what might be done as to facilitating the business of the House in presenting petitions. That would be much better than the further discussion of the subject now.
 The Speaker  rose and said, that though the hon. Member was only stating facts, yet in stating facts, it was always necessary to use parliamentary language. No language could be orderly in a quotation which would be disorderly if spoken. The passage read by the hon. Member was certainly of that nature, and, therefore, he must request the hon. Member not to read any more of the offensive passages.
 The Speaker  said, that he was sure no Gentleman in the House but would see that the manner, the topic, and the perseverance of the hon. Member were all disorderly.
 The Speaker  suggested that as the hon. Baronet whose name had been mentioned had so unhesitatingly denied the circumstance, it would be more in order in Mr. Ruthven not to persevere.
 Sir Watkins Wynn  started up, and amidst uproar and laughter, denied, as we understood, that his regiment had ever been in Ireland.
 Lord Acheson  said, that as an Irishman he could not but deeply lament the necessity which existed for such a measure as that before the House; for he admitted that stern necessity alone could justify it. It was not, he assured the House, without serious consideration that he had made up his mind as to the vote he should give on this occasion. He had done all that he could to see if he could conscientiously oppose it, but the more he reflected on it the more convinced was he that it was necessary, not merely to restore tranquillity but for the security of person and property in Ireland. He regretted the necessity he was under of supporting it, and the more so as he was aware that an hon. friend of his, the hon. member for Armagh, had yesterday presented a petition from that town against it. The petition was signed by many of his (Lord Acheson's) warmest friends. This he lamented, for he was sure they had been misled on the subject by the want of accurate information as to its nature and object. But, be that as it might, the question was one of too great importance for him to allow himself to be influenced on it by any interested considerations. He was sorry he was not present when the petition was presented,
 221 222
 Lord Althorp  was understood to deny that statement, and observed, that he had referred to Queen's County.
 Lord Althorp  then rose to reply: he assured the House that he should detain them only for a few minutes; that he should use his best endeavours to make himself heard; but he begged to suggest, that repeated demands for silence was not the most effectual mode of obtaining it. One of the first topics to which he should endeavour to address himself, was one on which he felt no small solicitude—which arose from an anxiety to remove a suspicion that appeared to be entertained of his not being so favourable to the adoption of the present measure, and therefore not so cordial in recommending it as the other members of his Majesty's Government. He could assure the House, that, however much he might regret the necessity for such a proceeding—and none regretted more deeply than he did the condition of society which made such a step indispensable—none more sincerely deplored the extent of severity which had become unavoidable—but at the same time seeing that necessity, and admitting its pressure, none more heartily or cordially united with the other members of the King's Government in framing the measure which circumstances demanded; and, in laying it before Parliament, no one could more sincerely or earnestly urge its adoption. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, in giving an account of the state of Leland, and in describing the number, the extent, and the atrocity of the outrages committed by the native Irish in the time of Queen Elizabeth, appeared to him to be doing nothing more than detailing an amount of crime and of suffering about equal to that which was inflicted by the lawless insurgents who now wielded au almost despotic power in Ireland—a power which rendered life and property insecure to a degree of which past history afforded scarcely a similar instance, even in Ireland, it was not
 274 275 276 277
 Lord Althorp  said, it was clearly understood last night, as far as such a matter could be made one of arrangement, that the House were to sit, however late, and endeavour to finish the discussion to-night. How was it possible that his Majesty's Ministers could conduct the business of the country, if after such an understanding, the debate were to be again adjourned? He should certainly say, that after the long discussion, and after the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, the sense of the House might be advantageously taken at once. But he had no right to stand in the way of any hon. Gentleman who wished to address the House; and he and his friends were quite ready to perform their part of the under-
 273
 Lord Althorp  said, that considering the
 200
 Lord Althorp  would make no objection to the suggestion on the understanding which had taken place last Session, that petitions should be presented, but no speeches made upon them.
 Mr. Strickland  had been requested to support the prayer of this petition, and he was anxious to say a few words upon it, as there were many persons who were ready to bring their capital into action, but who were restrained by the
 288
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was anxious to say only a very few words upon the petition just presented. He begged to assure his noble friend and the hon. member for Liverpool that the subject to which the petition referred had received for a long time a serious and anxious consideration on the part of the Government, and it was not because the Government did not fully concur in the view taken by the petitioners, or that they were not anxious to give that relief for which they prayed, that he was obliged now to say that it was not in the power of the Government to introduce any measure affording that relief. Hon. Gentlemen who were in the last Parliament, and were present during the discussion upon the Bill which terminated so unfortunately, knew and acknowledged the great anxiety of the Government to admit foreign sugars into this country for the purpose of refining. On the rejection of that measure inquiries had been made of individuals capable of giving information, and experiments had been tried, which, though not yet complete, had made such progress as to convince the Government that a considerable bounty, but not amounting to 8 s 289
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, his excuse for rising on the present occasion was the vast importance of the subject to the great scat of the cotton manufactures which he represented, and of the extreme degree of hardship which arose from ships being deprived of return-cargoes from the Brazils. He thought at a time when, during the last year, the poor-rates had increased in every county in England with the exception of three, it was the duty of the legislature to support every measure tending to increase the means of employment of the industrious labouring classes. Reverting to the importance of this subject to the sugar-refiners of this country, he must say, that he thought the noble Lord opposite (Lord Sandon) had much understated the effect which the existing law had produced. In London last year, there were no Jess than 216 establishments for refining sugar, and now they were reduced to sixty-seven; and as to the number of vessels employed in the Brazil trade, no less than fifty-one sailed from the port of Liverpool last year to Rio de Janeiro, not one of which could get a return cargo home. He thought a strong case was made out in the petition, for which he claimed the serious consideration of the House.
 An Hon. Member  said, that it appeared to him that means should be given to facilitate the refining of foreign sugar in the country on fair and equitable terms, both for the sake of the shipping and commercial interests of the country. He did not say, that a bounty should be given; but he did say, that every unfair restriction should be removed. Means should be given of refining sugars in bond, and if that could not be done, some other course ought to be resorted to; otherwise the interchange between this and foreign countries would be put a stop to, and this country would be unable to preserve those advantages in trade it had hitherto possessed. He had the fullest confidence in the sentiments just uttered by the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would feel this to be a subject admitting of no delay.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  said, he would not have risen, but that nothing had been said on the subject of slavery. If any measure was brought in for the introduction of slave-cultivated sugar, it would meet with the strenuous opposition of many hon. Members.
 Mr. Gladstone  stated, that from a letter he had received, he believed the petition to be signed by many respectable individuals, and that it should have his support.
 Colonel Williams  said, it was impossible to know what to say upon the petition, unless it were read. If it contained an application for an inquiry, then he should have no more to say on the subject. This he knew, that it contained the names of many individuals who had been for thirty years and upwards known to be habitually guilty of corruption and bribery. The noble Lord who presented the petition had known Liverpool for twenty-eight months; he (Colonel Williams) had known it for thirty years, and he had been a good deal concerned there in election business; and he could assure the House, that for the last thirty years, there had been a greater system of bribery and corruption carried on in Liverpool than had ever disgraced any rotten borough. It was very proper that this system of corruption should be taken notice of before the general Committee now appointed to inquire into the state of Corporations; and when the Corporation of Liverpool came before the Committee, he was confident it would meet with full justice.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  was glad that this question had been brought before the House. If the old practice were followed, the Members who lived at a distance would be left without a seat in the House; the seats would be wholly filled by those Members who lived near, and who therefore, could make it convenient to attend early and secure them. He might safely say, for himself, that he had not had a seat in that House the whole of the Session; he had sat for a few minutes in some other Member's seat, from which he was very soon turned off. It was very evident that there was not sufficient room in that House to carry on the public business of the country. He hoped that, among other reforms, they would make such arrangements as would enable all the Members to do their duty to the constituency who had sent them there.
 Mr. Baring  said, as the practice of taking seats in that House had fallen into great abuse, he should take this opportunity of moving, that it be altogether discontinued. This practice converted the attendance at prayers into apiece of hypocritical formality. He would take the sense of the House on the propriety of discontinuing entirely the practice of taking seats.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that matters were bad enough already, but the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Essex would make them worse.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the House could not avoid entering into this inquiry. If the allegations made by the petitioners were true, it was essential that justice should be done to the delinquents. If unfounded, it was due to the character of the inhabitants of Liverpool to have the aspersions cleared up. It was clear, however, on the face of it, from the incontrovertible facts stated on oath before the Committee of 1830, and contained in their Report, and from other evidence adduced, that the most unblushing bribery was carried on at Liverpool, from the lowest inhabitant to the highest Magistrate. The facts stated in the Report, too, had been fully borne out by the noble Lord, who had quoted a speech of the Rev. W. Sheppard, confessing that he believed that the money he had subscribed had been employed in bribery, to support his political opinions. It was notorious that the name of freemen of Liverpool was synonymous with bribery and corruption. Liverpool was not only a mass of corruption as
 318
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, the only question was, it having been alleged, that bribery and corruption prevailed to a great extent amongst a certain class of voters, whether an inquiry should take place into the truth of the allegation, so that, if a case should be made out, steps might be taken to prevent the recurrence of such practices in future. The statement of the noble Lord (Lord Sandon), if it proved anything, went to prove, that the borough of Liverpool ought to be disfranchised altogether. When hon. Members recollected the notoriety of the reports of bribery at the last election, he would ask, whether it was possible to believe that that election was conducted without bribery? It was said, that there was no proof of bribery to warrant the House in granting the Committee; but he would contend that it was unnecessary to adduce proof, nor was it necessary even to allege that the case could be made out, for the circumstances stated were sufficient to induce the House, in the protection of its own privileges, to inquire whether they were founded in truth. On such a subject, it was no answer to the demand for inquiry, to say that the time was gone by. It was the duty of the House to preserve the purity of the election of its Members; and, therefore, it was its duty to inquire into all cases of alleged gross corruption. It was also said that, if bribery had taken
 320
 Colonel Williams  said, that the object of the Motion was to redeem the borough of Liverpool from the disgrace in which it was involved for the last thirty years by practices of the most scandalous bribery and corruption. For his own part, he would give the Motion his cordial support; though in doing so he sanctioned a measure which went to disfranchise himself as a freeman of the borough. The last election was conducted upon a principle which showed that the character of the place was quite notorious.
 Captain Dundas , as one of the young Members, hoped that it would not go abroad that, because one of the members for Oldham was absent, that therefore any considerable portion of the new Members were unattentive to the duty they owed their constituents.
 Mr. Ruthven  thought, that they ought not to proceed with so important a Motion at so late an hour. He moved as an Amendment, that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Strickland  adverted to some letters which had been published in the newspapers, denying the statements of the hon. member for Oldham; it was, he believed, by no means the fact that such great misery prevailed in the manufacturing districts as had been represented; for the employment, at the present moment, was pretty general, though the wages were low. That was a state of things, which, in his judgment, was by no means satisfactorily accounted for; and he did sincerely hope that the hon. member for Oldham would bring forward some Motion to the House upon that subject.
 Mr. Rice  observed, that confessedly the sugar duties did not affect the class whose distresses had that night been made the subject of complaint; and why should the hon. Members who urged the condition of that class as matter of the highest importance, object to a tax which did not
 331
 A Member  felt it his duty to declare that the population ten miles round Manchester were, at the present moment, as comfortable as they had been during any period within the last twelve or fourteen years.
 Colonel Davies  presented a similar Petition from the Political Union of Worcester.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, he had been instructed by his constituents to oppose all supplies, and he should not feel it to be his duty to vote one shilling of supply to his Majesty's Ministers for the purpose of enforcing military law in Ireland.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the conduct of the noble member for Liverpool (Lord Sandon) seemed so fair and handsome, that he thought, although it might ultimately be necessary to go back to the other elections, that the first inquiry should refer to the last election only.
 Lord John Russell  said, no Act could be more useful as between man and man than the Grenville Election Act; and the purity and impartiality of the proceedings under it gave uniform satisfaction. But it was very ill-calculated to promote the general interests of the representative body; in fact, they were lost in its restricted views and proceedings.
 Lord John Russell  proposed, that the Committee should be chosen by ballot in a similar manner to Election Committees, but that the attendance of Members should not be enforced in the same manner. He moved, that the Committee should consist of fifteen Members; two to be named by the House, and thirteen to be chosen by lot. The ballot to take place on the 12th.
 Lord John Russell  said, that from the difficulties and expense that beset the investigation of elections, it would be utterly impossible to prevent bribery and corruption, unless the House resumed its ancient inquisitorial power. The most scandalous Liverpool election on record was that of 1831. He would, therefore, support the Motion for a Select Committee, but would postpone the appointment of its Members to a future day, and would then vote for selecting them by ballot.
 Lord William Lennox  regretted extremely that the hon. member for the county of Wilts should have felt it to be his duty to have again brought forward this question. He thought the valuable time of the House could be better employed than by raking up the grievances of 1830. He thought the funds of the country could be better disposed of than by paving the expenses which would necessarily occur in this investigation. During the last three elections no imputation of corruption had been made. The expenses of both the sitting Members during the last election were most moderate; they were open to the inspection of hon. Members, and, of course, had there been the slightest justification of a charge of bribery, the same spirit that had prompted this step would have not been wanting to have promoted a petition. He would oppose the Motion, because he felt it was an act of injustice to punish the innocent for the guilty; and by this measure 4,964 persons, who had never offended, would be disfranchised. He would add, that he would yield to no man in his desire for purity of election. He was happy that the Reform Bill had worked so well in that respect. He remembered the arguments of the right hon. member for Montgomeryshire in the last
 319
 Mr. Atherley  was convinced, that inquiry was necessary, because he was sure that the freemen would always corrupt the Representation, Till they were reformed the working of the Reform Bill would not be successful.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  complained that yesterday after the Speaker had taken the Chair, and, according to the usage of the House, had sent the Serjeant-at-Arms to summon those Members who were serving upon Committees, two-thirds of the Members who were at that time in their seats immediately went out, thereby showing that they attended for the mere purpose of taking their places. To correct that he would move "That upon Election Committee-days no Member should be allowed to take any place for himself, unless he shall have attended the service of the House."
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, that as he did not wish that the question should lead to a discussion, he would propose that it should be left to a Committee to consider
 304
 Mr. Littleton  said the very gross irregularity arose with the hon. member for Oldham—he who had last night proposed that the petitions should be read, but no observations whatever made on them.
 Mr. Faithful , who observed that be was another of the young Members, expressed an earnest desire to get rid of the present Motion in any unobjectionable manner. He was, he confessed, most anxious to set it aside for the present, but he had not sufficient experience to know how that object could be effected according to the forms of the House. If the right hon. Member below him, who possessed more experience than he could boast of, would only have the goodness to inform him of the proper mode of proceeding, he should most readily adopt it. The noble Lord had told them that, in the present Session, they must not expect any considerable relief from the pressure of taxation—or, indeed, any relief at all [ No
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that though he and other Gentlemen on the same side were not inclined to believe that a great reduction of taxation could be made, yet many besides himself would be disposed to call upon the noble Lord for information as to the practicability of taking off the taxes which pressed upon the poorer classes, and commuting them for others, which would not be liable to the same objections.
 Mr. Robinson  had been requested by the petitioners to support the prayer of this petition. He felt bound to say, that the petition came from a very inconsiderable number of his constituents, and as there had been no general meeting of the other part of his constituents, he could not say what their opinions were; but as he had voted for the first reading of this Bill early this morning, he hoped the House would allow him to explain, in a few words, what he had not had the opportunity of doing when he gave his vote. He had given his vote in favour of the first reading, because he thought his Majesty's Ministers required and deserved this mark of confidence, and out of respect to that branch of the Legislature from whence the Bill had been sent into that House; but he must, at the same time, say, that he did not think a sufficient case, after all that had been said, had been made out, to warrant the Government to call upon the Legislature to pass such a Bill as the present, inflicting such a wrong on the whole people of Ireland as this measure was calculated to inflict. He should, in the progress of the Bill—[Cries of order interrupted the hon. Member.]
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he should always bow with great respect to the decision of the Chair, although he should certainly have thought that, being a representative of the constituency from which the petition proceeded, he might have been allowed to make a few observations upon the subject matter to which it related. What he meant to say, however, was merely, that although he had voted for the first reading of the Bill, he should, in its future course, be guided by circumstances, and certainly should not vote for its passing into a law, till it had undergone considerable modifications.
 Mr. Robinson  thought these subjects ought rather to come before the Committee on Corporations, than before the House; supposing, however, the House were to grant the Committee, now petitioned for, what would be the necessary effect of investigating the allegations before a Select Committee, where neither the examiners nor the examined would be upon oath? He would take upon himself to say, that the Committee would be so entirely confused by the complicated and contradictory statements which would be thus made before them, that they would be utterly unable to fulfil their judicial duties. Or, suppose even that this Select Committee did come to a judgment, and it were in favour of the petitioners, would this House consent to disfranchise such a body of freemen on mere statements not given on oath? Would they not insist upon having the whole case thoroughly sifted and reinvestigated before them? Would they not summon the petitioners, witnesses, and counsel, to the bar of the House? If they did so, the expense and delay which would be the result would be dreadful; and he need only refer to the trouble and expense which had attended the investigation of the East Retford case. He need only refer to this, to show the House at one view what they would bring upon themselves by agreeing to this motion. He did not mean for a moment to deny, that bribery of the most flagrant description had been long practised at Liverpool; but whatever corruptions had existed at Liverpool, or anywhere else, the Reform Bill would be of little
 316 l l
 Mr. George Wood  had been requested to support the prayer of the petition, and he did so most cordially. He hoped, that as this question was very interesting to that part of the country which he represented, he should be allowed to say a few words. The subject was one of great importance to the whole empire, but particularly so to the county of Lancaster. He was sorry to hear from the right hon. Gentleman that there was no present intention of granting the relief prayed for. He trusted that the subject would continue to receive the best attention of his Majesty's Government, and that in a very short time they would be prepared with a measure
 290
 Mr. George Young  while he was anxious that taxation should be remitted as far as was practicable, expressed his confidence that his Majesty's present Government would do all in their power for that purpose. Conceiving, also, that the duty under consideration was not one of those which could be remitted, be saw no reason for voting that the Chairman should leave the Chair.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that this was what he particularly objected to. He saw no reason for departing from the ordinary course of referring all such questions to a sworn Committee. It would both supersede the Grenville Act, and injure the rights of
 324
 Mr. Goulburn  was against referring the petition to any but the usual sworn Election Committee appointed under the Grenville Act. It was an unprecedented step; and the question would ultimately be decided by a majority of the House. He knew, though he had no connexion with Liverpool, that the electors courted an inquiry; but he objected to the inquiry proposed, because it might prove, that the noble Member who represented Liverpool had been guilty of bribery, while it would provide no means for unseating him. Suppose that the Committee should report, that, at the last election, great corruption had taken place, in what a situation would the House be placed? Why, an imputation would be cast upon the sitting Member without any possibility of getting a proper Representative for Liverpool in his stead. For his part, he could not concur in any such anomalous and strange proceeding.
 Mr. Goulburn  denied, that the noble Lord at all understood the operation of the Grenville Act. The Committees under it made general Reports.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to call the attention of the House to the novel circumstance of the House being called upon to vote supplies to his Majesty in a Committee of Ways and Means, without having laid before them the manner in which these supplies were to be expended—[hear]. He was the more anxious to touch upon this subject, as they had been told a Reformed Parliament (and this was the first) would do wonders. In the time of former Parliaments, it was usual for the objects to which the taxes were to be applied, to be stated before the taxes were voted; but it was reserved for a Reformed Parliament to see the taxes voted first, and their objects—whether for the army, navy, or other service—left to be determined afterwards. The usual course being so different from the present, he hoped the noble Lord would excuse his few observations. The noble Lord ought, before proposing a vote for a tax, to have
 327
 Mr. Goulburn  deprecated the attack which had been so unjustly made on the clergy upon the presentation of the present petition; and said, that if such attacks were to be made, he must be heard in answer to them, notwithstanding the understanding not to debate petitions.
 Mr. Henry Grattan , to show the bad working of the present system, stated that, in the book which he then held in his hand, there were 415 names down, while the Speaker had only got to the eightieth.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he was very glad to hear the cheering with which hon. Members received the allusion made by the hon. Gentleman to the better arrangement and accommodation in that House. He begged to remind them, that tomorrow they would have an opportunity of evincing their sentiments on the subject, for his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, had a motion on the books, respecting a new House, which he meant to bring forward.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that, to say the least, it was very inconvenient to vote 4,000,000 l 328
 Mr. Ewing  said, the subject was of the greatest importance to the Brazilian trade, and he hoped it would shortly be fully and fairly discussed.
 Mr. James Oswald  supported the petition, and stated, that he had been intrusted with a petition numerously and respectably signed to the same effect. He hoped that the existing law would speedily be altered, as he thought the parties interested were justly entitled to greater advantages than they now possessed.
 Mr. Benett  had not, on any former occasion, made a charge against the gentlemen who had signed that petition. His charge was generally, that bribery had been practised at the elections at Liverpool, even up to the last election. He was anxious that a Committee should be appointed to inquire into the charges that had been made, when it would be seen by whom the system of bribery had been practised.
 Mr. Benett  would not impeach all the signatures attached to the petition. No doubt many of those who had signed it were desirous that their conduct should undergo investigation. He believed, however, that many of the signatures deserved little consideration, for he had received a letter from Liverpool, stating, that some
 295
 Mr. Benett  was perfectly content if the Committee should be instructed to inquire into the proceedings of the last election, and as far back as might be necessary.
 Mr. Benett , in rising to bring under the notice of the House the corrupt state of the borough of Liverpool, said, that it was not his intention to detain the House long, but he felt
 306 l l l l l 307 Sandon 308
 Mr. Fielden  said, that the House was now called upon to vote 4,000,000 l d 330 d
 Mr. Fielden  declined to enter then into any controversies with anonymous writers, who produced no authority for their assertions.
 Mr. John Stewart  said, that the House, he was sure, could not but observe, that the persons interested in colonial affairs, and immediately connected with the colonies, had purposely abstained from opposing, or in any way embarrassing, his Majesty's Ministers upon the present question—feeling, as they did, that it was a matter of the utmost importance that the still greater question, and that which more largely affected the colonies, ought now once and for all to be settled; and, therefore, he, and all connected with the colonies, were most anxious that nothing whatever should stand in the way of that arrangement. As to the observations of the hon. member for Middlesex, and his advocacy of the interest of our East-Indian possessions, he must be allowed to say, that they were as inconsistent with the principles of sound policy, as with the advantage of that dependency of the British Empire. He thought that neither the West-Indian nor the East-Indian interest would thank the hon. member for Middlesex for his interference with the present business. His proceeding upon the present occasion was another symptom of the ambition, more troublesome than successful, which had distinguished the hon. Member during the present Session.
 Mr. Hume  could not refrain from deprecating the practice of making bargains with the Government on questions of that nature, or of any kind. That which was right should be done, without improperly agreeing to vote away any portion of the public money, in order to attain that which should be attained without any such sacrifice. As to what had been said respecting his support of one party, or the other, he hoped he should gain credit with the House when he stated, that he never got up there for the purpose of supporting the exclusive interests of any portion of the Empire, and therefore, he desired thanks as little as he expected them. There had
 329
 Mr. Hume  supported the Motion. The House was bound to purify itself, and to keep elections pure. Such a case as this was seldom brought before it; and when it was said, why did not the parties go to an Election Committee, he answered, that the expense prevented them. He hoped the House would interfere, and put an end to bribery whenever it occurred. The hon. Member near him had objected to the inefficacy of a Committee; that was no reason for foregoing all inquiry, but a reason for suggesting a better tribunal. That corruption was very great, was proved by the case of the dissenting clergyman quoted by the noble Lord, who would not appear against those who were bribed, because he knew that money had been subscribed for some similar purposes. That admission was an argument for inquiry. He wished to ask the noble Lord if he meant to say, that the whole expenses of the election was only 1,400 l Sandon l
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that this was the first occasion that the Reformed Parliament had to impose taxes. He was much surprised, therefore, that there was not a better attendance. He was sorry and surprised that the hon. member for Oldham was not there. He was, doubtless, not aware of it, or he would have been present. There were 314 new Members sent to that House, but when he looked round him he did not see half that number in the House, and the larger portion of those present were old Members. This did not say much for the industry and attention of the new Members; but he hoped that, on a future occasion, they would have a better attendance. He was sorry the old system of placing upon East-India sugar a duty of 10 s
 Mr. Hume  complained of the present practice. Sometimes the whole of the seats were occupied at so early an hour, that even those Members who had important motions to come on could not find a seat.
 Mr. Morgan O'Connell  presented a Petition from Ballinrobe, in the county of Mayo, praying the House not to pass the Coercive Bill for Ireland. The petitioners cautioned the House against receiving too readily the statements of interested individuals, and against relying on the representations put forth by newspapers.
 Mr. Vigors  presented a Petition from the city of Carlow against the Irish Coercive Bill. The petitioners submitted, that his Majesty's Ministers could make out no case which would justify the House in arming them with powers so unconstitutional, and never hitherto resorted to, except when the country was in a state of rebellion.
 Mr. Vigors  presented a Petition praying for the total and complete abolition of Tithes, from Kiblerin. The petitioners stated, that one guinea per acre was frequently paid as the tithe of potato-ground. They added, that the disappointment the public had experienced in not having, according to the declaration of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, an extinction of tithes, had contributed much to the increase of discontent—a discontent aggravated by a subsequent enactment, the object of which was to render tithes perpetual.
 300
 Mr. Fryer  presented a similar Petition from Wolverhampton. He said, he perfectly agreed with the petitioners, that this was a most unconstitutional measure. He did not attribute it to barbarity on the part of the Ministers, but to an error of judgment. He might call it an Act for the Separation of Ireland from England; and if he gave it that name, if he so christened it, the people of Ireland would stand sponsors. He said this rather from what he feared than from what he wished. The Bill had been read a first time in that House—it would be read a second time in Ireland, when the French or some other foreign Power were in Ireland, and a third time when the British were expelled; and then it would be passed  nem. con
 Mr. Potter  was most anxious to see the duties removed from soap.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to ask the noble Lord whether he himself had never admitted the existence of corruption with reference to the petitioners?
 Mr. Sheil  wished to know, whether he was to understand that the noble Lord did not propose to exclude inquiry from the facts connected with the preceding-elections? In the Grampound case, the Committee had recommended the disfranchisement of the borough, not on account of any bribery at the election immediately preceding, but on account of that which had been practised at former ones. That was an important principle; but, moreover, it was fully confirmed and established by the similar case of East Retford.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the noble Lord (Lord Sandon) had started quite a new question in proposing that the investigation should be confined to the last election.
 Mr. Wason  said, that, in the case of Penryn, the Committee acting under the Grenville Act, had not only decided a particular question between individuals, but reported instances of gross bribery at the two preceding elections.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was in favour of the pointment of the Committee. It seemed to him that the opposition to it was an opposition to justice—was a shield to corruption. An hon. Member had called it a mere election petition; but it was no such thing. It did not at all refer to the hon. Member now sitting for Liverpool: but the principal allegation (which that hon. Member, and the hon. Member for Worcester had entirely passed over) set forth, that gross bribery and corruption had for a long time existed in the elections of the Chief Magistrate, and the Members of Parliament; that, indeed, this vile—this degrading system had so long existed, that the minds of the inhabitants had almost arrived at the idea that there was nothing particularly objectionable in that which had become as it were an established custom. This was what the petition was directed against—not against the noble Lord, the member for the borough; there was not the slightest intention of unseating him. The whole aim of the petitioners was against the atrocious system. A presentment was made by the Grand Jury of Liverpool, not long ago, against the bribery and corruption practised at the election of the Mayor. The Magistracy directed their
 317
 Mr. Estcourt  was not aware of the Return to which the hon. Member had referred. He was not aware that there had been any returns since 1816. He, however, must say, that he thought the hon. Member had hardly stated the thing fairly. According to the hon. Member there were in 1827 only 4,413 residents out of 10,500 benefices. He suspected that these 4,413 were the incumbents, resident in parsonage houses only; but he thought it would be found that the number of Clergymen residing in parishes, though not in parsonage houses, would greatly exceed that number. He found by the
 302
 Mr. Thomas Gladstone  was opposed to the appointment of a Select Committee. The allegations of the petitioners, who did not exceed forty or fifty in number, were negatived by two petitions presented that day—one signed by 8,000 persons, and the other by 1,400 persons, including some of the most respectable merchants, brokers, &c., in Liverpool.
 Mr. Blackney  supported the prayer of the petition. He felt very much interested in this question, believing as he did in his soul, that no measure to be brought in by his Majesty's Ministers would ever pacify the people of Ireland, until there was an entire abolition of tithes.
 Mr. Blackney  supported the prayer of the petition with all his heart. He had the honour of representing the county of Carlow, and was in possession of some petitions from that county of a similar nature to the one now brought before the House; which he feared he should have no opportunity of presenting before the measures of Ministers were completed. Nothing during the debate on that important measure had given him so much pain as the
 298 299
 Mr. Cobbett , in expressing his hearty concurrence with the prayer of this Petition, which he did in consonance with all the opinions he had entertained and expressed for the last twenty years, said, he should now notice, with the leave of the House, the calling to account he had experienced the other day from the member for the University of Oxford. That hon. Member had called him to account, in a tone and manner which perhaps was not unbecoming in him, but which would have been unbecoming in any body but in the representative of the body of the Clergy of England. The hon. Member had contradicted him in fact, and cautioned him as to how he stated facts in future, a sort of caution that was not a very insignificant way of accusing a man of stating falsehoods. He had stated that of 10,000 and odd livings in the Church of England and Wales, there were only 4,000 and odd resident incumbencies. He held in his hand the Diocesan Returns on the subject which had been laid before Parliament, the nature of which he should state; and even if he had been in error, there might have been some apology for him, because he was not in Parliament when the Return was made, but certainly none could be allowed for the hon. Member, who himself was a Member of Parliament at the very time the Returns were laid before the House. From that Return it appeared, that in 1827, there were 10,533 benefices and only 4,413 resident incumbents. In 1828 he had no returns, but in 1829 the
 301
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had sat patiently while one petition presented by the noble Lord had occupied three quarters of an hour, but he did not intend to occupy five minutes. With regard to imputing motives to petitioners, he imputed none but what were expressed in the petition itself. Those pious men complained of being injured in their trade, and of getting less money in consequence of going to worship, while the poor man was obliged to stay at home. That was avowed by the petitioners themselves, and indeed as much was avowed in the Report of the Committee were appointed last year. In matters of religion, of all things, men ought to be sincere; but those pious men having grown rich by their impiety when poor, now wished to compel the poor to attend to their religious duties, which certainly, above all matters, ought to be attended to. These were the men, who having by their impiety got plenty of money, sought to prevent the poor from
 293
 Mr. Cobbett  could not let that petition pass without expressing his opinion of the motives by which all the petitions respecting the Lord's day were got up. A petition was presented the day before yesterday, from Staines and two other parishes in the county of Middlesex, expressing the desire of the petitioners to have a law to protect them against the injury to which they were exposed in consequence of impious traders trading on the Sunday. It was very much like the reason given by Hudibras why the pious should have all the good things of this world—namely, that the godly were entitled to them, but the ungodly were not. The real truth was—and this was the foundation of all those petitions—the rich tradesman, living in country towns especially, went out in his gig on a Sunday, with his lady and children, to visit their friends—and he could
 292
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he bad several petitions from Mayo to the same effect, in which the petitioners stated, that they were afraid a great part of the information on which his Majesty's Ministers had relied, had been given by a person who had been confined in Newgate in the same room which he himself formerly occupied.
 296
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he understood the hon. member for Oxford to have pointed out the right hon. member for Tamworth as an individual who was entitled to a preference with respect to the occupation of a seat on that side of the House. He was going to observe, when he was interrupted, that he knew of nothing pre-eminently worthy in the right hon. Baronet, which would justify the pretensions put forward as to his right to a particular seat. He was not inclined to cede that right to him; and, if he were present he would give him his reasons fully and plainly for thinking that he of all men in the House, ought not to enjoy pre-eminence on that or on any side of the House. Now, with respect to the inconvenience of which hon. Members had complained, it all arose from the Government being so saving and parsimonious—so sparing of the people's money. They begrudged the expense of providing a suitable building for the Representatives of the people; the House must therefore put up with the inconvenience, only praying to God to alter the hearts of the Ministers, and make them a little more squandering.
 Mr. Cobbett  said it was impossible he could fail to perceive to whom the hon. Baronet applied his observations. It was clear that the hon. Baronet deemed him an intruder; that he had got into a situation where he had no right to be; but he could assure the hon. Baronet, that whenever he was attending in the House, and the front bench on either side was not entirely occupied, he would have a seat on one or other of them. He was at a loss to know what superior pretensions the right hon. Baronet alluded to possessed compared to him. To be sure he had done much mischief.
 Mr. Ewart  said this was a subject of the deepest interest to his constituents. It was one which involved the consideration of an extension of our foreign trade, and the employment of British capital. It was so fully proved in the petition that the amount of our foreign trade would be greatly extended if proper protection were afforded it, that he would not dwell at any length upon that subject. He was sorry that the extent of the experiments which had been conducted under the auspices of the Government had not been such as to liberate so important a branch of our foreign trade from the fetters which had hitherto bound it. The French government were already taking measures that would have the effect of greatly extending the trade in refined sugars, and he trusted that this country would not be behind them, but that his Majesty's Ministers, whom he knew to be inclined to liberal measures, would speedily remedy the evils of which the petitioners complained.
 Mr. Woolrych Whitmore  supported the proposition for equalizing the duties, as highly beneficial to both countries; and also condemned the system of utter prohibition of foreign sugar, which he thought might be allowed to come in to be refined for the foreign market, as contrary to the principles of free trade.
 The Speaker  said, he hoped that whatever seat the hon. Gentleman might choose to occupy in that House, he would at least conform to the rules and orders of the House, and not presume to state opinions with respect to any individual in either his public or private character, such as he was not warranted in stating.
 The Speaker  was quite confident that no Member of that House would be more ready to consider such statements as this out of order than the hon. Member who had now been addressing the House, if those statements had proceeded from any other hon. Member. However satisfactory it might be to the hon. Gentleman's constituents to give them an explanation of the vote he had given this morning, there were other modes of letting them know his reasons for the course he had adopted than explaining at that moment. Hon. Members were assembled on this occasion for the purpose of presenting petitions, and it would be very hard on any other Members of that House if they were not to be allowed to explain their motives after the hon. Gentleman sat down, if they wished to give explanations; and then, if they were to be allowed to do so, into what
 297
 The Speaker  did not think the hon. member for Oldham was entirely out of order, and with respect to the length of speeches, much must depend on an hon. Member's sense of propriety. With respect to the reference to a petition presented on a former day, if it were on the same subject as the present petition, he could not say that applying motives to those petitioners was disorderly. In all those matters a great deal must be left to the good sense, the feeling, the taste, and the propriety of hon. Members themselves.
 The Speaker  said, he was sure the House would concur with him, that complaints had been frequently made by every hon. Member of the House, that they made no progress in presenting petitions by the present arrangement, because there was so much discussion; and nine-tenths of those
 303
 Sir Henry Willoughby  opposed the Motion. The parties should have brought their case forward at an earlier period. He objected, however, to the Motion, principally because a Committee of that House was the most unsatisfactory tribunal possible for the trial of any such question. The judges were not sworn—the evidence was not given on oath—the Members did not attend constantly; and by such a tribunal, therefore, it was impossible to get at the truth. If there were to be any inquiry, it would be much better done by means of a Commission. He therefore should give his decided opposition to the Motion of the hon. member for Wiltshire.
 The Solicitor General  thought, that the election of 1830 should rot be drawn into a precedent. They should allow a  locus penitentiœ
 The Solicitor General  trusted, that hon. Members would not consider it presumptuous on his part, if he reminded the House of the understanding that existed with reference to presenting Petitions.
 291
 Sir John Wrottesley  reminded the House, that, during the discussions on the Reform Bill, it was proposed to disfranchise the
 321 l
 Mr. Guest  said, that the population in the neighbourhood of Manchester had never been so much distressed as within the last two years; but he was happy to add, that their condition was at present improving.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a subject connected with the practice of taking places. There had recently been a departure from the old practice of the House, by which the first opposition bench was reserved for such Members as had formerly filled high offices in the State. He had recently observed his right hon. friend the member for Tamworth, who had formerly been a leader of that House, unable to find a seat on that bench. Now, although his right hon. friend had on one question given his support to the Government, he apprehended that he was not therefore to be altogether deprived of the character of being in opposition. He did not wish to allude to particular individuals, but he would put it to young Members whether it was fair that they should, by occupying the bench in question, drive from it Members who had for many years taken an active part in the business of that House?
 Lord Althorp  said, the House as
 323
 Lord Althorp  could not agree with his hon. friend the member for Wolverhampton, who had just spoken, as to the course proposed to be adopted with respect to the sugar duties. If ever there was a period when that question became a question of difficulty and delicacy, it was the present, when Parliament was about to enter into an inquiry as to the renewal of the charter of the East-India Company, and when, at the same time, it was contemplated to make considerable alterations in the mode of regulating affairs in the West-Indies. At such a time as the present it would be exceedingly improper to reduce the duty on East-India sugar, no matter what temporary relief it might afford to individual parties. With regard to the reduction of the duty on sugar, as a measure of relief to the labouring classes, he agreed that it was desirable to reduce them on that account; but it was necessary to pay proportionate attention to all classes of his Majesty's subjects, and it became a question whether the reduction of some other tax would not be still more beneficial to the labouring classes themselves.
 Lord Althorp  wished merely to answer the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn). The first objection which he made to the vote was merely one of form. The Navy Estimates had already been presented; but there was no vacant day for taking them into consideration. The postponement of the alteration of the Sugar Duties till the 5th of April, would throw it one day beyond the expiration of the financial year. It was impossible for him to state what he could reduce, until he could toll what was required for the support of the Government, and what would be the state of the revenue. It was the duty of Government to pay every attention to the interests of the lower classes, but not so as to exclude other classes.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the first Resolution which he had to propose to the Committee was one with respect to the Sugar Duties, and he did not feel that it would be necessary for him to go into any detailed arguments upon that question. As he was about to propose a Resolution which went to continue this tax upon sugar, he begged to observe, that he proposed it upon the ground upon which all taxes must depend—namely, that it was required for the services of the State. He did not think that the state of the revenue was such, taking into account, too, the other questions of a fiscal nature that were likely to come under the consideration of the House, as to enable him to propose such a reduction in the duty on sugar as would be calculated to give any substantial relief either to the West-India colonies, or to the people of this country. Aware as he was of the distressed condition of the West-India proprietors, he should have been extremely glad
 325
 Lord Althorp  also disapproved of the Amendment.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the experiments had not been carried so far as to enable them to make such a scale. The experiments, however, had proved that the calculations on which the Excise had formerly proceeded were erroneous; but the amount of the error had not yet been determined. It certainly had been proved that it was considerable.
 Lord Sandon rose to order. It was the understanding in the House last night, that there should be no debate on the presentation of petitions; and he thought that the hon. member for Oldham was very disorderly in imputing motives to the petitioners whose petition was presented on a former night, and was not then before the House.
 Lord Sandon  wished to present a petition upon a subject on which, as it was to come before the House this evening, he should not trouble the House at any length. It was signed by every member of the Committee who did him the honour to conduct his late election, and they complained of the gross misstatements which had been made in a petition presented on a former evening, and upon other occasions—namely, that bribery and corruption had been practised at the late election at Liverpool. They stated that they had been active supporters of him (Lord Sandon), and they were anxious to show, that no one person had been induced to vote by bribery, treating, or any other than constitutional means. They courted inquiry on that subject. The petition afforded a complete proof that no bribery to any extent—that no bribery of which they were cognisant—had been practised to procure his return.
 Lord Sandon  answered, that one or more of the petitioners admitted to him, that he or they had formerly been engaged in bribery. They acknowledged themselves as having formerly been sinners, but they denied that any corruption had been practised during the last election. He had never denied, that bribery had formerly been practised; his denial solely applied to the last election. He should like any hon. Gentleman to lay his hand upon his heart, and say whether, under such circumstances, evidence could be given to the allegations
 294
 Lord Sandon  said, that his only object was to confine the Report of the Committee to the result of the last election.
 Lord Sandon  thought the hon. member
 309 Rigby Wason l l l l l 310 311 312 Cheers by Mr. O'Connell O'Connell; Benett 313 l 314 315
 Lord Sandon  would make no further objection to the course proposed, provided the Committee should be appointed
 322
 Lord Sandon  presented a Petition signed by 4,000 of the gentry, clergy, merchants, and other inhabitants of the Town of Liverpool, praying for a better observance of the Lord's Day, and expressing their satisfaction that the House had manifested an intention of taking the subject into early consideration. The petition was agreed to at a public Meeting.
 Lord Sandon  said, he had to present a petition on a subject of much importance to the commercial interests of the country, from the merchants of Liverpool. The petition came from a society calling itself the Brazilian Association, and they prayed for a remittance of the excessive duties on the sugars imported into this country from Brazil for the purpose of refining. In accordance with the objections which had been made on the subject of presenting petitions, he should not detain the House with any prefatory remarks, but he could not permit himself to present the petition without making the House fully acquainted with its contents. He must, therefore, read its contents to the House. The petitioners stated—
 That they carry on a very extensive commerce with Brazil, in the produce and manufactures of the United Kingdom, and are suffering great inconvenience and loss from the difficulty of obtaining a medium of return for their merchandise, and a back-loading for their ship-ping, arising through the operation of the present state of the law, which, by the imposition of excessive duties on the importation for consumption or manufacture, of the chief products of Brazil—namely, sugar, coffee, cocoa, and rum, prohibits their importation, except to a very limited extent,  in transitu 285 s Gazette s d s s s d s d s s s s l l 286 287
 Colonel Williams  also dissented from the prayer of the petition, and declared that the effect of allowing every third house in a parish or town to have a license to sell beer was, that the people of England would, in the end, be literally poisoned. The new Beer Act was, in his opinion, and he spoke from observation and experience, the worst measure which any Government had of late introduced. The number of new beer shops exceeded 25,000, and he could assure the House that they were calculated only to demoralize the poor. He trusted that the present Government would see and correct the evil.
 Colonel Williams  could assure the hon. member for Oldham, that in the district of Lancashire, in which he (Colonel Williams) resided, there were more than 2,000 new beer shops. He had the honour to be a magistrate, and, as he took an active part in the business of the district to which he alluded, he could, without fear of contradiction, assert that the number was nearly double that which the hon. member for Oldham had stated.
 Colonel Torrens  supported the prayer of the petition, because he was of opinion that new beer shops were a decided advantage to the poor. He had a similar petition to present, and—
 Colonel Torrens  supported the prayer of the petition, with the exception of that part of it which related to Universal Suffrage and Annual Parliaments. These he could not advocate.
 Colonel Williams  would give his support to the petition so far as the reduction of taxation went.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested that each Member should classify his petitions, and make one speech do for each class.
 Mr. Attwood  thought, that as the Bill would, in all probability, pass before the petitions against it would have time to be presented, the noble Lord opposite should allow the next two or three days to their presentation; and postpone the second reading of the Bill for that purpose.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to express his concurrence in that suggestion; and added, that the petitions in its favour, if any, could be presented during that time also.
 Mr. O'Connell  fully concurred in the prayer of the petition, and it should have
 342
 Mr. Wynn  concurred with the hon. member for Dublin, in his view of the present system. The Act which authorized the issue of Commissions for examining witnesses in Ireland was certainly a clumsy, inconvenient, and expensive contrivance. He was afraid that Election Committees of that House were too prone to omit the sentence "frivolous and vexatious." He thought it their duty to pronounce it oftener than they did. Perhaps the words frivolous and vexatious were sometimes too harsh; but then the Committee should make the petitioners pay the expenses of the unsuccessful candidate, unless there were sufficient grounds to the contrary.
 Mr. O'Connell  had numerous petitions to present from various parts of England and Scotland against the Bill, but in consequence of the arrangements of the House for the reception of petitions, he had not yet had an opportunity of presenting them. He should endeavour to bring them up to-morrow, but lest he should be prevented from doing so, he was desirous that the persons who had done him the honour to commit them to him, should not suppose that he neglected them, or that he was not gratified by the assistance which they desired to give him, in opposing this Bill, or ungrateful for the sympathy which was expressed for Ireland in every part of England.
 Mr. Wynn  suggested, that when it should appear that the sitting Member had no good defence to set up against a petition, the expense attendant upon contesting it should fall wholly upon him. His defence should be reported frivolous and vexatious.
 Mr. O'Connell  placed the most unlimited reliance on the noble Lord's word as to his redeeming his pledge, and did not place to account, in the way of blame, the fact that the Bill had not been brought in during the last Parliament. He should therefore say, that if the Bill which he was about to propose was confined to Special Juries, he should not feel the least hesitation in acceding to the noble Lord's suggestion; but there were parts of his proposed Bill that were not to be found in the Bill of last year, and there were portions of the Bill of last year that, in his opinion, did not go far enough to remedy the evils it related to. That Bill only went to cure one set of evils. He did not mean to trespass long upon the House, but should wish to state to them what was the nature of his demand. He did not wish to pledge the Government on the subject, but he should like to let the Government know what he asked; and then, if the noble Lord would say, that they would take the whole subject into their consideration, that moment he would withdraw his Motion. His Motion simply was, for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to Special Juries, and to Juries in criminal cases in Ireland. He
 345 tales 346 347
 Mr. O'Connell , in reply, observed, that while Baron Penne father was on circuit last year in the county of Clare, he had applied to him to learn if he had any objection to the present Bill; the learned Judge had stated only one objection which regarded Special Juries, and he (Mr. O'Connell) did not believe that he entertained any others. The great object he had in view was, that impartial justice should be done—that Juries in Ireland should be tinged with no colour, whether green or orange.
 Mr. O'Connell  regretted, that the hon. and gallant Member was not in the House when he made his statement. If the hon. and gallant Member had been present, he would have found that there was no Popery in the Bill.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  begged to state, in reply to what fell from the hon. member for Worcester about the deaf Commissioner of the Customs, whom the hon. Member mentioned as if his deafness was feigned, though, in truth, he had been deaf all his life, and who was stated to be put on the Superannuated List at 1,200 l. 364
 Mr. John Stanley  observed, that the House heard night after night such statements as that which had been made by the hon. Member who had just sat down, but he could assure them, that they did not contain an accurate description of the condition of the working classes in the manufacturing districts. The reductions to which the hon. Member had just alluded must
 367 s.
 Mr. John Stanley  repeated the statement. The 10 s. s.
 Mr. John Maxwell  wished to recall the attention of the House to the question really before it. It should be observed, that the salaries of Ministers, and of other public functionaries had been raised in consequence of the depressed value of the currency. This point had frequently been alluded to by different Gentlemen; and he was sorry to say, that it had never received the smallest attention. It did not, at all events, receive that attention which a subject of the greatest possible interest ought to command. So long as that fact was kept out of the view of the public—so long as they were inattentive to that great question, which he was glad to perceive would soon be brought before the House—so long would they proceed in a mistaken course. They ought to bear in mind what had taken place in this country during the depreciation of the currency. They had now, fortunately, an opportunity of looking to the overpaid salaries of public officers, and also to the underpaid wages of that part of the community on whom the prosperity of the State depended. He said this, because by them public credit was supported; from them the Treasury received the Malt-tax, the duties on sugar, on soap, and on all those great articles of consumption, the imports on which were as necessary to the exigencies of the State, as the commodities were necessary to supply the wants of the community at large. He
 370
 Mr. Robert Stewart  said, that English Members complained of the time taken up in the discussion of Irish affairs; but if such declamatory speeches were persisted in as they had heard that night, Irish Members would have to complain of the time taken up in the discussion of English affairs. With regard to the matter in question, he was of opinion, that such wholesale Motions as that made by the hon. member for Evesham, instead of forwarding the object which hon. Members had in view in making them, tended rather to impede and thwart it. He would only bring one or two instances to show the absurdity of such a general Motion. By the hon. Member's Motion, ten per cent was to be taken off the salary of those that had 1,000 l. l.
 Mr. Trevor  thought, that as all the Representatives of the country ought duly to assemble whenever there was the least question concerning the welfare, the happiness, or the misery of the people, there ought to be a House sufficiently large to contain them. Sir Robert Inglis had stated the number of extraordinarily important occasions for the assembly of the whole House at about three times a Session. He thought there was much more frequent occasion for their meeting. He should, therefore, advocate the erection of another building.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to say one word to the House in sober sadness. He asked the House whether it was not desirable, that whatever was done in that House, the public should be made acquainted with it, in order to know the proceedings of their Representatives? How could that be done if there were not sufficient accommodation for that portion of the public by which alone the whole could learn." It was desirable that accommodation should be given, and not that the communication should be made by stealth. The thing was now done. The public would not suffer that it should be discontinued. If it were a matter of such decided necessity that it could not be discontinued without causing a revolution, should they not provide convenience for those who gave the Debates to the public? He would give such accommodation, if it were only that it might not be said: "The hon. Member was inaudible." If there were no other reason but that, he should
 379
 Captain Deans Dundas  would never consent to vote away 130,000 l.
 Captain Deans Dundas  was happy that he had an opportunity of explaining the vote he gave on that occasion. He had been asked by several of his constituents why he had not voted for Mr. Hume's Motion; and the answer he gave was, that he understood from the hon. member for Tralee, or some other hon. Member who spoke on the same side, that it would be proper to increase the pay of the officers of the Army and Navy. He belonged to the latter; and being persuaded that the officers of the Navy, to which he belonged, should be paid as they now are, he had voted against the Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the House would insist, as was its duty, on having the Returns. They should not proceed on guesses, cither as to the number or expenses of the army.
 Mr. O'Connell : Granting that, there were no Returns to show whether the aggregate amount of expense was a proper one or not. The noble Lord, in refusing the Returns, relied upon his character.
 Mr. O'Connell : But the noble Lord added, that he was not in the habit of withholding proper information. The right hon. Secretary at War maintained that it was the prerogative of the Crown
 383
 An Hon. Member  said, that the matter ought to be left in the hands of the Government, and quoted the expedition to Portugal, under Mr. Canning's Administration, as justifying his opinion. At that time there was great doubt whether the force should be drawn from Gibraltar or other parts of the Mediterranean.
 Colonel Torrens  thought the Motion ought not to be persevered in. The Return would make all the world acquainted with those points which were open to attack.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the right hon. Gentleman who intimated so eager a desire for the discussion, appeared, from his state of preparation, to have an advantage over those on that side of the House. In sober sadness, however, did the right hon. Gentleman mean to deny, that the hon. member for Oldham had abstracted the schedules to the Stamp Act correctly? If he had done so, why, let him remember that vulgar arithmetic never fails. It was not denied by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he had abstracted them correctly. The only defence which the noble Lord set up was, that many other taxes were in the same situation. It was, however, of no consequence. He did not fear, although the right hon. Gentleman was so chivalrous as to dare the hon. member for Oldham to the combat. Common sense would triumph over Treasury dexterity. There was one part of the Stamp Act which he would just allude to; the stamp upon an arbitration was 20 s. l.
 Colonel Conolly  deprecated the alteration in the Jury system proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. His opinion was, that it would prove most mischievous in its consequences, and he was fortified in that opinion by the sentiments entertained on the subject by the twelve Judges in Ireland. He had had communication with the Judges of one of the Courts, and he felt it his bounden duty to state to the House what were the opinions entertained by those learned functionaries upon the subject, and they were, that the proposed alterations
 351
 Colonel Davies  could not understand the objections of his noble friend. The country, it should be remembered, was in a state of profound peace. Did his noble friend apprehend the danger of a foreign attack or a domestic insurrection? Certainly, the apprehension of danger from
 381
 Mr. O'Dwyer  referred to the Commissioners of Legal Inquiry in Ireland, who had reported (and their opinion was recorded in the proceedings of the House), that the office of Sheriff in Ireland was one of the most monstrous corruption and abomination. The evidence taken by this body showed that a Jury in Ireland was to be bought exactly in the same way as a pound of tea, or a yard of cloth were purchased in this country. He maintained boldly, that the system of Special Juries in Dublin had been converted into a mode of living, by needy corporators and their pot companions.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  never knew any Member insist on such Returns, after it had been declared by Ministers, on their own responsibility, that the Returns would be injurious. It was interfering with the undisputed rights of the Executive Power. But the most singular circumstance was, that a military man, upon being told that they would be inconvenient to the public service, should ask "why?" That was the most extraordinary question he had ever heard from a military man.
 Mr. Aysh ford Sanford  hoped, that, when the hon. Member brought forward his Resolution, he would not forget to mention to the other side all the taxes which were borne exclusively by the landed interest, and which they had imposed upon themselves.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he concurred in the principle laid down by the Solicitor General, and the hon. and learned member for Dublin, as to the propriety of assimilating as far as possible the law in England and Ireland; but he must view with alarm the introduction of a measure such as that proposed, and to the principle of which the twelve Judges in Ireland were unanimously opposed. He desired that the same spirit should pervade the laws in the two countries, yet it was quite necessary to keep in mind the different circumstances under which that spirit and principle was to be practically applied. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, stated that Baron Pennefather had agreed to the principle of the measure, but was opposed to some of its details. He did not mean to accuse the hon. and learned Gentleman of wilfully misrepresenting the opinions of the learned Judge, but he knew, and would distinctly assert, that Baron Pennefather was opposed to the principle of the Bill. Before the House adopted any new principle in regard of the Jury-laws in Ireland, they ought well to weigh the peculiar difficulties of the administration of justice in that country, otherwise they would be legislating upon the fallacious supposition that England and Ireland were in that respect similarly circumstanced; and he would warn the House that, in the event of the Jury Bill passing into a law, the House
 350
 Mr. Grote  was glad, notwithstanding the opinions expressed by the learned Solicitor General, that he had presented this petition, and he trusted that it would appear here, as in civil cases, that there was no wrong without a remedy. He was sure no injustice would be done by the petition, for the members of the Committee would decide on nothing but the evidence.
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from Samuel Fletcher, of Norwich, against the Bill for the Suppression of Disturbances in Ireland.
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from individuals at Norwich, stating, that the return of Lord Stormont and Sir James Scarlett for that place, had been effected by means of bribery and corruption, and praying that a Parliamentary Commission might be sent down, fully and fairly to inquire into and expose the system. It would be impossible to establish those facts before the Election Committee, in consequence of the expense that it would occasion; and, as the practice of sending Commissions for similar purposes had been adopted, he saw no reason why it should not be followed also in England.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he hoped to see these offices abolished altogether.
 Mr. Robinson  concurred with the noble Lord in the hope that the Motion would be withdrawn, for he was convinced that the reduction which it contemplated would operate very unequally in many instances. He was willing to give the noble Lord and his colleagues credit for desiring to effect reductions in the public service, but he was convinced that it would be useless to attempt any real economy unless the right of superannuation and to obtain civil pensions was altogether done away with. Consolidation might do much in obtaining the proposed end, but there would be no practical economy until the lavish system by which men,
 362 l. l. l. 363
 Mr. Warburton  called the attention of the House to the case of the hon. member for Dorsetshire. Although he sided with the petitioners against the election of that hon. Gentleman, the hon. Member declared that he ought to retain his seat;
 343
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Motion, and referred to the evidence of Mr. Smirke, from which it appeared that there was not accommodation for more than 350 Members in the House, deducting the space under the gallery, and allowing two feet by three-and-a-half for each individual. 560 Members divided the other night, and, according to the calculation, 210 of the Members could not have found convenient places. He was aw are that some persons thought a space of one foot eight inches by two foot eight inches sufficient for each Member, and upon that supposition the House would accommodate more than 350, but he did not consider the space allowed by Mr. Smirke too much; and it should be borne in mind that Members who frequented the galleries usually required six feet by two rather than three feet by two—a consideration which, if taken into the account, would show that there was not accommodation for more than about, 300 Members. He objected to the oblong shape of the House, as inconvenient and every way inferior to a semicircular form, which would admit of a better position for the Speaker than that which he now occupied. "Sir," continued the hon. Member "you have not, like Janus, eyes in the back of your head, and therefore cannot always see in every direction. I say, Sir, you have not eyes in the back of your head, and you cannot see what goes on in that part of the House behind the Chair which is called, I suppose from the superior wisdom of its occupants, Solomon's porch. There, and at the bar, there Is frequently the greatest disorder, which might be prevented if you could have your eye on every Member." On these grounds, because of its deficiency of accommodation, inconvenient shape, and bad arrangement, he found fault with the present House. One of the recommendations of the plan held in view for constructing a new House was, that it could be carried on without interrupting any of their proceedings, either in the House or in the Committee-rooms, and it might be completed by the commencement of the next Session.
 Mr. Benett  hoped he might be allowed to say a very few words.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  having heard the statements of wages so highly rated in several districts, I should not be doing my duty to my constituency, and the dense population by which they are surrounded, did I not attempt to set the House right as regards the great depreciation of wages that have occurred in my own neighbourhood. The earnings were—
 Mr. John Fielden  wished that Government, in considering the question of salaries and superannuation allowances, would also take into consideration the changes which had taken place within these few years in the payment of the wages of labour. He would put the House in possession of a few facts on this subject, which would show how much the wages of labour bad fallen off within a few years. The statement was made out from his own books. In the year 1814., the price which he paid for weaving a piece of cloth—a sort of calico—well known in the markets of Manchester, by the name of "third seventy fours," was 8 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. 366 s.
 Mr. Herries  said, he was glad to hear that some measure was likely to be brought forward for the settlement of colonial affairs; but, he must say, he did not think it wise of his Majesty's Government, at the same time, to bring forward this measure for the renewal of the sugar duties. He objected to the mode of bringing forward this proposition on constitutional grounds. It was an established principle, that the House should not grant any money, until it had first determined the purposes to which that money was to be applied; or, in other words, that the Ways and Means were not to be proposed until the supply had been granted. In this instance the Government had deviated from the former practice, and without any sufficient reason having been assigned; for the House was here called upon to vote four millions, without having had the supplies regularly submitted for its consideration. The House had a right to know to what purposes the public money was to be devoted, before it sanctioned the appropriation of that money. There was a wide distinction between those votes of money to pay off Exchequer Bills,
 389
 Mr. Marshall,  knowing the state of trade in the districts to which he belonged, could say, that wages were generally on the rise. Children, at a very early age, got 3 s. s. s. s s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Richards  confided entirely in the honesty and good intentions of the noble Lord on the Treasury Bench, for, in his opinion, the country had not possessed a better set of Ministers for the last century. If the Government, however, were determined to go on a low level of currency, it must not only agree to the reductions in the public salaries which had been pointed out, but it must effect a much larger, and more extensive saving. He had had considerable experience, and knew accurately what was the present state of the industrious classes, and he must declare it to be his opinion, that the whole of them were, not only head-sick, but heart-faint. Not a single branch of trade or manufacture could be mentioned which was in a flourishing condition; and, notwithstanding the official statements which were from time to time adduced to the House by the right hon. member for. Manchester, in order to prove the flourishing state of the manufacturing classes, he must observe, that the right hon. Member only showed one side of the matter, and that was a fallacious one. He produced a large multiplicand, but the multiplier or rate of profit was very low. The wages of all the labouring classes were so low, that, if it were not for the Poor-rates, they would long ago have seen the industrious classes of England in the lamentable condition to which those classes were reduced in Ireland, the result of which would be, that the whole civil society of the kingdom would be broken up. The Poor-rate, by which the labouring classes were now partly supported, were pulling down the middle orders to the level of the labourers, and, though these classes were loyal to the Throne, and preferred the government of St. James's to that of St. Giles's, yet, it must be obvious, that if they did not give the labouring classes larger means of existence than they now had, their loyalty could not last much longer. The alteration which the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, had effected in the value of money, operated not less than to the extent of thirty-three and a half per cent upon the currency. It had been foretold by many, and amongst others by himself, that the result of that Bill would be the depression of the value of labour. The right hon. member for Tamworth, however, possessed so completely the confidence of the House at that period, that he
 359
 Mr. John Stewart  would not go, at present, into the question of equalizing the East and West India duties; and although he, and all who were interested in the West Indies, must feel obliged to the hon. member for Middlesex, yet they did not think the present a fitting time for refusing the annual duties; his Majesty's Government being engaged in the consideration of the important subject of the West Indies, and all things showing the probability of an approaching settlement of that question.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move the reduction of the duties upon sugar. His Motion was, that the duty should be reduced from 24 s. s. ad valorem
 Mr. Hume  said, that, in order to prevent any further disputes at present, he hoped both combatants would at once agree to appoint an early day for deciding the question between them. But, he must say, that his right hon. friend would be a much more clever man than they had yet given him credit for on that side of the House, if he could refute the proposition, that the taxes on stamps pressed unequally, and that the principal burthen was thrown upon the poorer classes. They had often heard of the influence which property ought to possess in this and that ease—of the deference which was due to property, but he thought it high time that the House should hear something about property bearing its fair share of
 387
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Amendment on the Resolution should be introduced now, or else it could not be introduced at all, for what was agreed to in Committee could not afterwards be altered by the House.
 Mr. Hume  rose to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, for referring to a Select Committee the Report of the Committee of last Session, relative to the pro-
 371 372 No, no. l. 373 374
 Mr. Hume  begged to remind the gallant Colonel that his Motion did not press for Returns later than the 1st of January last. The apprehensions of the Secretary at War astonished him; it seemed that this country was to be attacked the very next day. But why had there been no allusion to this perilous condition in the King's Speech? he (Mr. Hume) thought the country was in a state of peace, and that the King's Speech might have contained a recommendation to reduce the military establishment. That was what the people looked for. Still, notwithstanding the warlike character of the House he did not think it could consent to maintaining a standing army of 90,000 men. It was perfectly useless to talk of repealing taxes, unless the establishments were reduced.
 384 a laugh from Mr. William Brougham. Question
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask the House for some information on a subject of considerable importance, in relation to a question that would come before them in a few days. He wished to know how the troops were distributed before voting the Estimates. Such a Return was laid before the House last year, and he did not know why there
 380
 Mr. Hume  said, that nothing was more important than that the services of the public functionaries should be remunerated in a manner adequate to the duties required of them. The object aimed at by the present motion of the hon. Member was first brought before the notice of that House in the year 1822, by himself, and subsequently by the right hon. Baronet the first Lord of the Admiralty. He had confined his motion, in the first instance, to the expression, on the part of that House, of the necessity for reducing the salaries of public servants, so as more nearly to approximate to the increased value which they had derived from the change in the currency, and thus bring them nearer to their former standard. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, supported his proposition, and the House, agreed to the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the necessity for revising the whole range of the salaries of the civil officers of the country; and the result of their labours was to be found in three volumes of reports, containing the particulars of the reductions in salaries, which were recommended by them, hut which, however, were not carried into effect to the extent there proposed. Now he must in candour admit that, on looking over the returns of public salaries on the Table, he found that, although the smaller salaries of 200 l. l. l. l. l. 357 l l. l. 358
 Mr. Hume  wished to know from the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) whether any step had been taken with respect to the office of master of the Reports in Chancery?
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  reminded the hon. and gallant Gentleman that lie had voted away large sums of the public money. [ When
 Mr. Philip Howard  said that, with great deference to the hon. member for Middlesex, he did not conceive any benefit would arise from his Motion "for appointing a Committee for considering further of the expediency of building a new House." He had had the honour of a seat in three Parliaments, and had found that on very few occasions had there been any deficiency of accommodation. He confessed the reasons he had heard were insufficient to justify him in supporting the plan for constructing a new House, which would entail a heavy charge on the public. The building in which their deliberations were then held was endeared to the sons of freedom, not less by the triumphs it had witnessed than by the struggles it had seen. It had been argued by the hon. member for Bridport, that every Member should be allowed in the proportion of two feet three inches each, for sitting room, whilst it was well known that in the army each man occupied only eighteen inches. In reference to the feelings of former times, he observed, that the
 378 Forum Vetus Forum Romanum
 Mr. Philip Howard  would only remark, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Wolverhampton, that the price of corn was not higher than in 1772, and he did not think there was, on that score, any special ground of complaint against the agriculturist. Before the House went into a Committee of Supply, which was the proper time for the statement of such grievances as weighed most heavily on the people, he (Mr. Howard) would draw the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to the hardship of the house and window tax, particularly as it bore upon the lower class of assessments. The hon. Member further observed, that the public benefit from the repeal of a direct tax, could not possibly be defeated by combination.
 Mr. Fryer  said, it was absurd to attempt to deny, that the landlords had, on all occasions, thrown the burthens of the State upon the people. The people had been oppressed by the landed oligarchy of the country. He said distinctly the landowner, for the farmers had a different interest, and were really as much injured by these laws as other people. The landlord used them, indeed, as a sponge to suck up other people's property, which they afterwards squeezed out of the farmers.
 Mr. Sheil  thought it hard, that while information of this nature had been granted in 1819 and 1832, it should be now withheld.
 Mr. Wason  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. The case of Liverpool was an illustration of the inconvenience and expense attendant on the present mode of trying election petitions. Elections that were notoriously carried by bribery, were, under the present system, defended, because the longest purse could gain the cause.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it was perfectly clear that the Crown ought to be limited in its challenge, but it might be right to consider that the Crown ought to have a challenge as large as the other party. An unlimited right of challenge was not a prerogative of the Crown, but only an abuse of the Statute of Edward 1st. He believed all the great constitutional authorities were against the unlimited power of challenging claimed by the Crown.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that those who were acquainted with the duties which many of the persons employed in the service of the East-India Company had to perform, would not feel any surprise that their remuneration was ample. It was seen by the manner of some of them, who had occasion to come before Committees of the House, that they were men qualified to fill the highest places. The business of the company was performed in the ablest manner, and with unexampled integrity. Indeed, some of the persons employed by the company at home, had to discharge duties as great as belonged to the departments of some of the hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench near him. Some of them had to carry on various correspondence on the great interests of our vast empire in India, which they performed in a manner in the highest degree creditable to their ability and fidelity. He would say a word upon superannuation. That was the great question—that was a matter which weighed down the country, and which he thought, as far as it was a superannuation depending on a scale of years, ought to be put down. When the Government wanted persons to fill certain situations, it ought to inquire whether it could not get men equally qualified for them without any expectation of a retiring allowance. If they could get such men, he did not see why they should not prefer them, and thus save the vast sums which the country now paid in retiring allowances. The case would be different if they had to mate the selection from a small number of qualified persons, or if the persons employed, such as a barrister, had given up his profession for the appointment.; hut here it was otherwise; and when they had to choose out of a large body of qualified men, they ought to make the selection of those who might be willing to take the appointment without any hope of a superannuation allowance. He did not approve of a deduction from salaries to make a superannuation fund; for if that
 365
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  coincided in opinion with the last speaker. The present building might be large enough for the discussion
 377
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  felt it to be his imperative duty to second the motion of the hon. Member. He was perfectly well aware, that the Gentlemen who would be affected by the reductions proposed by the hon. Member could ill afford to submit to those reductions in their incomes; but lie was also well aware that every one of the industrious working classes throughout the Kingdom had, for the last seven years, been obliged to submit to much larger and severer reductions in their incomes. He was well aware that the agricultural classes the farmers—had been under the necessity, for years, of submitting to the annihilation of their whole income, and that they were only enabled to get anything from their land in cases where they were contented to break up their land and force crops year after year, to the ultimate impoverishment and ruin of their farms. He was well aware, also, that the manufacturing classes had for years lost all hope of obtaining any income from their invested capital, and that they had been living on the principal, which was gradually diminishing to nothing. He was also aware that all the working classes had, for the last seven years, existed, it might almost he said, without any income; and it was now high time that the unproductive classes should be called upon to share in
 356 d. d
 Mr. Hudson  rose to bring forward his Motion, to obtain from the House an expression of the general conviction that there was a necessity for reducing the amount of the salaries, superannuation, and other retired allowances at present paid to public servants. In examining the accounts of the income and expenditure of the United Kingdom, for the year ending January, 1832, he had found charges to the amount of 10,000,000 l. 354 l. l. l. l. l. l. 355 l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that as the present was a measure vitally affecting the administration of justice in Ireland, he could not, after the statements he had heard put forth by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, suffer his observations to pass altogether without notice. He must, in the first instance, inform the House, that in his opinion, the most mischievous
 348
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that he wished the hon. member for Oldham had brought forward his Motion, or, at least, that he had not intimated his intention of abandoning it in such a manner as to propound an argument, and cause an inference. He disputed the argument, and he denied the inference. He would tell the hon. Gentleman, that all he asked of the House and of him, was a clear stage and no favour. He would dispute every inch with the hon. Gentleman. He denied that there had been, on the part of the Parliament, any disposition to oppress the people. It might suit the object of the hon. Gentleman to make such statements. But he would meet him—aye, he would meet him—he was not afraid to cope with him—yes, he would cope with him foot to foot, and shoulder to shoulder, and might God defend the right! The hon. Member
 386
 Mr. Bolling  presented a Petition, signed by 7,500 persons, inhabitants of Great and Little Bolton, praying for a reduction of Taxation, the removal of the Corn-laws, the duties upon Tea and Sugar, the House and Window duty. Vote by Ballot, Universal Suffrage, and Annual Parliaments. The hon. Gentleman begged to say, that there were many topics contained in this petition with which he could not agree. He would be as willing as any man to support any plan which might be devised for the reduction of taxation or the removal of unjust burthens from the people, but he at the same time never could sanction either Universal Suffrage or Annual Parliaments. He was glad to see the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) in his place, as he wished to remind him that the county of Lancaster, that great mart for cotton, had strong claims upon his attention. The people of Lancashire felt the tax upon raw cotton a great and grievous injustice towards them, and they entertained the most sanguine expectations that the noble Lord would repeal it. He trusted that they would not be disappointed.
 Mr. Bolling  denied, that the petition had been received with indecorum. The laugh to which the hon. Gentleman bad alluded, arose altogether from the manner in which he had stated the objects of the petitioners, and had no reference whatever to the petition itself.
 Mr. Bolling  presented a Petition from the Proprietors of new Beer Shops at Bolton in favour of the new Beer Act, and praying that no restrictions might be placed upon their trade. The hon. Member said, that having been intrusted with the petition, he felt it his duty to present it to the House, although he could not, he was sorry to say, concur in its prayer, considering, as he did, new beer shops to be a very great evil.
 Mr. Cobbett  thought, that the hon. Member who had just sat down was mistaken as to the number of new beer-shops, for, instead of there being 25,000, the number did not exceed 2,000.
 Mr. Cobbett  had twenty-seven different petitions to present, from various parts of England, against the Bill for establishing military tribunals in Ireland, in the place of the ordinary administration of justice; but the arrangements of the House had hitherto prevented him from presenting them, and unless the difficulties were removed, they would amount almost to a denial of the right of petition. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Althorp) had said that he (Mr. Cobbett) frequently attributed bad motives to the proposers of the present arrangement. He had not attributed bad motives. He had only said what the effect would be, and such the effect must be if they persisted in the present course. The hon. member for Staffordshire said yesterday, that he (Mr. Cobbett) had acted contrary to the course which he had himself recommended, by making speeches on the presentation of petitions. But that hon. Member must have forgotten what he really did say—which was, that all petitions should be received and read, or that such parts of them should be read as the Members presenting them might choose, and that they should all be printed. For although the printing would be expensive, yet what signified the expense compared with the time of that House. He hoped the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) would see the necessity of altering his arrangement. If the noble Lord did not, it would be impossible to present the petitions against the Bill before it should have passed, or even before the people against whom it was
 341
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he had but one observation to make upon the question before the House. The present discussion had convinced him more than ever of the natural dislike the Whigs had to lie three in a bed. But whenever they made room, it was for their own convenience, and not for that of others. Yes, what he had to complain of was, that many persons had been turned out of their employment by the Whigs, for no other purpose than that the Whigs might get some of themselves in. ["Name!"] Well, since the House was so very eager to have names—since they pressed him so hotly to give a name—he would give one, which would be a proof of the correctness of his charge against the Whigs. They had turned out Sir Charles Saxton, Commissioner of the Plymouth Dock-yard, in order to put in his stead Sir George Grey, one of themselves. The fact was related to him by Sir Charles Saxton, who besides stated that he was still able to perform the duties of his office. The Whigs turned him out, notwithstanding, giving him a retiring pension of 800 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to supply the omission which he had made. He had said, that the nobility, clergy, and landowners, had, for many years, thrown the burthen of 8,000,000 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  thought, that was a proper time for him to offer some observations to the House. He had already mentioned, that there was a mass of taxes amounting to eight millions annually, of which the nobility, clergy, and great landowners, paid little or nothing, but which fell almost exclusively upon the tradesman, the farmer, the workman, and the industrious classes generally. He had proposed to bring forward a Resolution recommending the House to take this subject into their consideration. It had since occurred to him, that whilst the unfortunate question of Irish affairs was before the House, it would be better for him to defer bringing forward his Motion until that great question was finally settled. He mentioned this, lest the House should imagine that he meant to abandon his Motion.
 Mr. Gillon  considered, that this last statement did not fall short of the truth, as in his part of Scotland, the best hands, working sixteen hours a day, did not earn more than 6 s. d. s. d. s. 368
 Mr. Gillon  supported the petition as it stood, and complained that a petition of the people should have been received with so little respect. If petitions were to be laughed at in this manner, the people would not trouble them with their complaints of grievances in future. He for one should regret that, for he saw no method by which anarchy would be so certainly brought on the country, as by that House entirely separating itself from the people.
 Colonel Verner  was opposed to the proposed alterations in the Jury system. He thought the attacks made upon the Juries was most unwarrantable, and related a circumstance in which two cases of murder were tried. In one case, one of the persons accused was a Protestant—in the other a Roman Catholic. The Jury that tried the Protestant was composed of twelve Protestants, and they found him guilty, and he was executed. The Jury that tried the Roman Catholic was composed of eleven Protestants and one Roman Catholic. The eleven Protestants were for finding the prisoner guilty, but
 352
 Mr. Wynn Ellis  could assure the House, that the picture given by the hon. Member who had just sat down was altogether overcharged as to the wages of the manufacturers; he, at least, was not aware of any place in which such wages were given. In the town (Leicester) which he had the honour to represent, the children did not at the most earn more than 5 s. s. s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Wynn Ellis  said, that this was incorrect. There were no persons employed in any branch of the cotton-trade who had such earnings.
 The Speaker  put it to the good sense of the hon. Member whether he would proceed after what had just taken place.
 The Speaker , referring to the understanding which had been come to relative to abstaining from discussion on the presentation of petitions, said that he hoped the hon. Member would at least reserve his speech until he presented the petition to which he had alluded.
 The Solicitor General  objected to the reception of petitions relative to a question which was already brought under the consideration of the House by an election petition. Had the hon. Gentleman considered the nature of this petition for a moment, he must have been convinced of its irregularity, and that that for which it prayed was nothing more nor less than asking the House of Commons to prejudge a question, which one of its own Committees would have to decide on oath. He must deprecate such attempts to pervert the public mind, and frustrate the ends of justice. A Committee was about to sit in judgment upon the Norwich election petition, and, pending that proceeding, such a statement as that contained in this petition ought not to have been made.
 The Solicitor General  rose to express his good wishes for the Bill as far as it proposed to assimilate the law of Ireland to that of England. He did not pretend to be well acquainted with the practical administration of the law in Ireland, but this he knew, that a Jury selected by officers of the Court would never command the confidence of the country. It was most desirable, therefore, that Juries should be chosen by Ballot. He hoped, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would be satisfied with proceeding no further than assimilation; the 6th George 4th had worked extremely well in this country; no complaint had been made from any quarter, and it would be well if that were extended to Ireland. He was of opinion, however, that the Crown ought to be allowed peremptory challenges, and he had no objection that the prisoner should enjoy the same advantage in all cases of felony as far as related to twenty Jurors.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, the information required was in great part before the House. The Estimates themselves stated what force was in Great Britain, what in Ireland, and what force was in the colonies. But the hon. member for Middlesex wished to know exactly what amount of force was in each colony. Such a return had only been made twice before, and it was curious enough that the return of 18I9 was made in detail by the Adjutant General, when he was not required to do so. It appeared to him that no House of Commons, at the commencement of every Session, could fairly call upon the Government to state the manner in which the army of the country was disposed of—at home or abroad. That was certainly a matter which should be left to the discretion of the Crown, and the existing Government, according to the emergencies of the times; for there might be circumstances with which the Government alone could be acquainted, to render it of the utmost importance that the mode in which the military force was disposed of should be concealed. With the vast interests of our great empire—with colonies spread over the whole surface of the globe—it was apparent, looking to England, Ireland, and the West Indies, and, indeed, to all parts of the world—that no man could have a right to call upon the Government to proclaim how many troops were stationed in this place—and how many regiments in that? It would not only be the grossest imprudence; it would be usurping the power delegated to the Government; and it would be exposing to those who might take advantage of such exposition, what force was to be stationed, in disciplined array, in different parts of the empire. It was no doubt true, as the hon. member for Middlesex and the hon. and gallant member for Worcester had said, that a similar return was presented last year; and that return he begged leave to explain. The right hon. Gentleman who preceded him in office had certain tables before him, in order that he might draw up certain schemes (well worthy of consideration, no doubt.) with respect to the effect of every estab-
 382
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that the expense was specified in the papers on the Table.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought with the hon. member for Middlesex, that as a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence, there could be no objection to the alteration proposed; the expense would be a mere trifle, supposing a necessity for that alteration; but he did not see that any such necessity existed. He did not, of course, mean to say, that there was sufficient accommodation for such full Houses as assembled the other night; but these only occurred two or three times in the course of a Session; and, therefore, the question amounted to this—was it necessary to build a House large enough to accommodate the whole body of Representatives, who only assembled as a collective body on very extraordinary occasions—sonic two or three times a year? For the remainder of the year's business this House was better adapted than any building he knew. There were most important matters discussed when only 150 or 200 Members were present, and this number the House could accommodate excellently. The hon. member for Middlesex had founded his calculation upon the whole number of Members returned to this House; but he would ask hon. Gentlemen whether 658 Members had ever met together in this House for the purpose of deliberation? If the hon. member for Middlesex could mention any precedent of ancient or modern times in which 658 Members had ever constituted a deliberative assembly here, he would then enter into the consideration of the change which the hon. Member proposed. But believing, that human nature always would be the same, and that they could not reckon upon having, on ordinary occasions a full House, he did not see that the Motion was necessary. He was sure that they should never find 658 men prepared to deliberate upon every subject—they must
 376
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that if his hon. friend (Colonel Williams) had not limited himself to Lancashire he might have gone even still further. He could state without fear of contradiction, that the number of licensed public-houses was 50,000, and that there were upwards of 26,000 shops for the sale of beer opened under the new Beer Act.
 Lord Althorp  did not mean to resist the introduction of the Bill, although he found that it went somewhat further than he had supposed when he last addressed a few words to the House. Hereserved to himself, however, after reflection and consultation with his colleagues, the right of resisting any parts of the measure in its future stages; and, in the outset, he must say, without pretending to the knowledge of a professional man upon the subject, that it went beyond the necessity of the case, if the wish of the hon. and learned Member were only to assimilate the laws regarding Juries in England and Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  suggested that the whole of the time for presenting petitions on the ensuing day, should be appropriated to the presenting petitions on this subject.
 Lord Althorp  said, that before the hon. and learned Gentleman made his observations upon the motion of which the hon. and learned Member had given notice, he wished to make one suggestion. He had stated, on a former occasion, that the pledge he had given in the course of last year on this subject, that a Jury Bill should be brought in by the Government, was one which he thought had not been redeemed, and ought to be redeemed. In pursuance of that acknowledgment, he now wished to state, that it was the intention of the Government to bring forward
 344
 Lord Althorp  said, that, in reply to the question put by the hon. Gentleman, he would state the whole of the facts of the case. Upon the office of Master of the Reports becoming vacant the senior registrar claimed the office as a matter of right. The Lord Chancellor thought differently. Upon inquiry, however, it appeared to have been the regular practice of the chief registrar to succeed to the office, and, therefore, the Lord Chancellor gave way. His noble friend, however, stated to the then chief registrar that a Bill was in preparation by which the office of Master of the Reports would be abolished, and, that if, with that information before him, the chief registrar chose to take the office, he might have it. The chief registrar, under these circumstances accepted the office. It had been attempted on the death of the late Master, Mr. Weeks, to do without filling up the office at all. That, however, had been found to be impossible without other arrangements; for, at present, the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery could pay no money whatever without the order of the Master. The matter then stood thus:—A person had been appointed to the office with a knowledge on his part that it was to be abolished, and a Bill was preparing for that purpose, and would be ready in a few days. The case, however, of the person who had accepted the office was a peculiar one. The office of chief registrar had been filled as a matter of course by the second registrar. The office of chief registrar was a laborious one, while that of Master gave its possessor
 353 Hear hear l. l.
 Lord Althorp  had decided objections to this Motion. The hon. Member had asked him whether the Government had been recently applying itself to the reduction of expenditure. To that he would answer, that the first step which the Ministers took after they came into office, was to place their own salaries under the consideration of a Committee. That Committee made several recommendations, which the Government adopted, and their salaries were in consequence reduced. The members of the Government had commenced the task of reduction with their own salaries, in order that they might have a right to call upon their subordinate officers to submit to similar reductions. He certainly thought that the Government ought to be served as cheaply as possible. The scale of salary should be framed on the principle of the sum calculated to secure a fit and efficient person for the office. He was aware that the salaries of persons employed by the Government were higher than the salaries of persons employed by private individuals, but they were not higher than those of persons employed by public companies. He believed that the salaries paid by the East-India Company, and by the Insurance Companies, were to the full as high as those paid by the Government. Their superannuations were, he believed, still higher. It was known, that in the Government offices, the plan adopted with regard to superannuations rested upon the deduction of a certain sum annually from the salary, to secure a fund for the future support of the holders of office. A report had been made to the Government of the amount of income enjoyed by members of the different Revenue Boards, with the intention of seeing what reduction, if any, could be made in their salaries. As to the Customs, a report had been made recommending that, in future, the salaries should be reduced in that department. He felt
 360 361
 Lord Althorp  said, but for the call made
 375
 Lord Althorp  observed, that he resisted the Returns because, if furnished, they would do injury to the public service, otherwise it was the bounden duty of Ministers to grant them, but he had not, he believed, relied upon his character.
 Lord Althorp  hoped that the House would give him credit for being always ready to give every species of information required, whenever it could be done with propriety. With respect to the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he wished to remark that a similar one had been made in 1819, and agreed to. A similar Motion was also made and agreed to last year; but in the interval between these two Motions, no such information was ever asked for, or laid on the Table of the House. He believed, too, that the Motion in 1819 was the first of the kind ever assented to. He admitted, therefore, that he should feel it his duty to give the information granted at these two periods, if there were no objections, as he supposed there were none then, on the score of the public service. But he appealed to the House whether it might not he very inconvenient if it should settle into a custom of laying this information on the Table of the House. There must be many occasions when it must he very injurious to make the public acquainted with the exact amount and distribution of the military force of the empire. If such a return were to be habitually laid on the Table, it would be extremely difficult for the Government to refuse it, when it might be inconvenient to grant it. That made him object to granting it this Session. That, however, was his smallest objection to the Motion. He objected strongly to making this the constant system of the House. On the present occasion he felt very strongly that there were many circumstances which rendered it extremely inconvenient to lay such a statement before the House as was demanded by the Motion of the hon. Member He was the less scrupulous, indeed, in now opposing it, because the information, in consequence of its having been supplied last year, was not required. On the two grounds then, of its being at present inconvenient, and of its being wrong to make such a return habitually, he should oppose the Motion.
 Lord Althorp  would admit the general principle, that a reduction of duty tended to increase consumption, so as to prevent a loss of revenue, but could not, in the present state of the revenue, venture to adopt such an extensive reduction as that proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex. That reduction would affect the revenue to the extent of 1,800,000 l. s. s. s. s. ex parte 390 l.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that no longer ago than last year there was laid before the House a detailed account of the distribution of the Army for each of the fifteen years, and down to the commencement of 1832; then, if all that were wanted, was the means of investigating the propriety of the Army Estimates, of keeping up the present force, there would be the requisite aid. But, why not give it down to the present time, it was said. That was the question certainly; and his colleagues had replied, and on there responsibility, that it would be inconvenient to the public service. He hoped that the House would not be led away by the hon. Member: he would have them reflect on the character of the Motion. Its tendency went to invest that House with the command of the Army. If he had no other objection to it, that with him would be sufficient. On one day the hon. Member held, that the House would be the best judge of rewards to meritorious officers; on another, he considered, that the House was to judge the propriety of continuing small or large forces in particular stations, garrisons, or colonies. The fact was, that the object of hon. Gentlemen opposite was to vest the command of the Army and Navy in that House. This he resisted, as most dangerous and unconstitutional.
 Mr. Curteis  wished to know whether the names should be taken as they appeared in the books of the House?
 Lord George. Lennox  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Curteis) had his name down three times, and some Members had theirs down four or five times. If, therefore, the hon. Member presented a petition to day, and had petitions upon other subjects, he would have his name still low on the list. No name should be down more than once. He had been every day in the House at each sitting, and yet he had been unable to present one of his petitions, which made his constituents imagine he was negligent of his duty.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was convinced of the necessity of presenting petitions without any unnecessary discussion, but he wished merely to say a word, as he understood, that in his absence his name had been referred to. He could assure the House, that the people of Ireland felt deeply upon this subject, and his advice had been to petition against it; that was the constitutional means of expressing the people's opinion, and he was convinced the advice he had given was the best. He cared little for the imputations which might be made against him for giving that advice.
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  who had alluded to the hon. and learned member for Dublin observed, that he did not wish to throw out any imputations against that hon. and learned Gentleman, but he merely wished to show, that those petitions were not the spontaneous effusions of the persons from whom they came.
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  trusted, that the House would allow him to make a few remarks. He thought it would be as well that petitions should be the sponta-
 395
 Mr. O'Connell  denied, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had a sincere desire to protect the Constitution. The hon. Gentleman seemed on all occasions to be ready to adopt assertion for proof, and he now set himself up in favour of Courts-martial. That was a part of the Bill, however, but as the hon. Gentleman repudiated it, it was to be hoped that he would give him (Mr. O'Connell) his support. When assertions were to be made evidence, it was too much for those to reproach the Irish Members, who were actually taking away protection from inno-
 402
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know how many clergymen had signed that petition, for the last that was presented in favour of the Bill, out of seventy-five signatures, had those of five clergymen? The clergy of England appeared to have a kind of  esprit du
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in no instance was any gentleman implicated in the outrages.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  was not aware that his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, intended to have moved an Amendment, but as he had vainly endeavoured, on the former discussion on this Bill, to catch the attention of the Chair, and as he entertained strong objections to the measure, he was glad to avail himself of the present opportunity by seconding his hon. friend's Amendment. The measure before the House was too severe and despotic to obtain his support. Whilst he made that declaration, however, he must be allowed to add, that he did not think the members for Ireland and the gentry of that country did every thing for the best. It was not to the Government I of Ireland, whether Whig or Tory, that he attributed the state of that country, but to the Magistrates and landholders; and it I was to their exertions he looked, rather than to the acts of any Government, for restoring the public peace. He only wished I that the landlords of Ireland would fol-
 415 l
 Mr. Tuncred  had listened with the greatest attention, and with the sincerest desire to arrive at an impartial judgment on the subject under discussion, to the arguments which had been urged from both sides of the House, against and in favour of the present measure; and he had most reluctantly imbibed an opinion, not only from what had been stated in its defence by the Government and those who supported it, but also from the statements of the hon. Members from Ireland who were most opposed to it, that, unless it was carried into effect, Ireland could not exist longer in her present condition, and the inevitable result must be, that all the bonds of civil society would be separated. He felt that the Legislature of the United Empire was bound, by the most sacred of all their engagements, to extend protection to the peaceable and well-disposed inhabitants of Ireland, who were now left a
 416 417 418 d d 419 420 421 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Edward Cooper  said, that he would give his vote for the second reading of the Bill, reserving to himself the power, when it was in Committee, to object to many of its details. He entirely agreed with the statement in the preamble of the Bill, that there did exist in Ireland a conspiracy against life and property, and that there were associations in that country which were inconsistent with its peace and tranquillity, and on such grounds he should vole for the principle of this measure.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that he would not have presented himself to the notice of the House, had it not been for the incorrectness of the statements made by the hon. member for Middlesex whose speech, from beginning to end, betrayed the most extraordinary mistake as to the condition of Ireland, arising either from total misapprehension or total misinformation of the facts of the case as regarded that country. He had, on all occasions, been the opponent of the present Ministry; but when he heard the hon. member for Middlesex designate the Members composing that Ministry as the agitators and destroyers of Ireland, thereby screening from public view the individual who was in fact the prime mover of all the agitation and outrage so unfortunately prevailing, he felt it was but an act of justice to them to rise in his place and disabuse the House of the impression which the speech of the hon. Member was calculated to make. Frequent appeals had been made to the House against the infringement on the liberties of the people which the Bill was alleged to contemplate, and the terms of tyranny and despotism had been lavishly employed in designating its provisions.
 422 423
 Mr. Baldwin  presented a petition, signed by 20,000 inhabitants of the county of Cork, against the Bill for Abolishing Trial by Jury, and establishing Martial-law in Ireland. Amongst the petitioners he had to enumerate the names of the first merchants in that county, Catholics and Protestants. It was signed by William Crawford and Francis Bernard Beamish, who were known to every mercantile man in the empire to be merchants of the first respectability, and they were Protestants, Others of the petitioners were men of great respectability; and he hoped, that in bringing forward this petition the House would perceive, that he did so under the sanction of names which ought to give it great weight. It did not come from people of the lower classes, but from men of great commercial and landed property, who had a deep interest in the peace of that country, men who would not oppose the Bill if they thought it was calculated to preserve peace and good order, or to maintain the security of property in Ireland. It could not be denied, that such men were more deeply interested in upholding the authority of the laws in that country than any Member of that House could be, who had no other than an official conexion with Ireland. They would not thus earnestly pray for the suspension of the ruinous and tyrannical bill, if they agreed with the Government in thinking, that it would remedy the evils which had been put forth as an excuse for its enactment. In their petition they respectfully denied the truth of the statements on which the introduction of the measure had been defended. Surely those gentlemen must be better acquainted with the state of Ireland than the persons from whom the noble Lord opposite derived his information. The hon. Member, in presenting a petition from the parish of Hackett's Town, in the county of Carlow, stated, that the petitioners alleged the county in which they resided to be in a state of perfect tranquillity, although a clergyman had recently burnt some produce seized for tithe. If the people would not be provoked to acts of outrage by such occurrences as these, it could not be necessary, the hon. Member remarked, to pass such a measure as that now before the House. The hon. Member in presenting petitions from the inhabitants of Tullagh and Loughlin-bridge, in the county of Carlow, said that the last-men-
 394
 Lord Arthur Lennox  felt called on to
 405
 Lord Oxmantown  rose principally in order to afford the hon. member for Middlesex the information he wanted, and to make a few observations on some of the statements of a few of the hon Members of that House which had led to so much of the opposition which had been offered to the Bill. He did this with those feelings of regret, which he always had when he intruded himself upon the attention of the Mouse; but the revolutionary party in Ireland, owing-to very peculiar circumstances had obtained such an extraordinary political power that If he did not explain himself, and make a statement of facts, he should justly be exposed to the charge of shrinking from the discharge of a very necessary but a very painful duty. Owing to the lateness of the hour, and to the extraordinary state of the House, he had not previously risen to contradict the unfounded assertion that the King's County was in a state of perfect tranquillity. Never within the walls of that House had there been a more unfounded statement. If the House would bear with him but for a moment he felt sure that he could convince the hon. member for Middlesex, and the House itself, that everything possible had been done by the Magistrates to suppress the disturbances of the King's County, and that there now existed such a case of overwhelming necessity as could alone justify the measure before the House. Until two years ago the King's County had been in a state of perfect tranquillity but the minds of the peasantry had been very much disturbed and excited by the hopes they entertained from the Committee of that House which had been appointed on the state of Ireland; for they hoped and expected some great political convulsion, which would have the effect of entirely putting down the upper classes of society, and causing a different distribution of property. As an instance of the peculiar effect of such a state of society he should beg leave of the House to call its attention to one case. It had long been the practice in Ireland to grant leases on three lives, a period he believed much longer than was usual in this country. The consequence was that the tenants were long in the
 432 433 434 435 436 437 438 l 439
 Major Beauclerk  said, that while he felt bound to oppose the measure in every stage, he would give the hon. Gentlemen opposite full credit for their honesty of motives.
 Colonel Perceval  (amidst cries of "adjourn, adjourn") said, he trusted that his Majesty's Ministers would not consent to an unnecessary adjournment of the debate. It appeared to him extraordinary, that the hon. member for Wicklow (Mr. Grattan) should have stated he concurred in what had fallen from the noble Lord the member for King's County (Lord Oxmantown), and then come to the conclusion that one tithe of the measure then before the House would have been sufficient to put down the disturbances. The county which he (Colonel Perceval) had the honour to represent was in a comparative state of tranquillity, but occurrences that had recently taken place there convinced him that unless an example were made in the remote districts where insubordination was at its height, the system would soon reach the county of Sligo. It appeared to him extraordinary that so many hon. Members should have stated, that his Majesty's Ministers had not made out a case. To his apprehension they had made out a case fully warranting them in applying for additional powers. The measures demanded, it was true, were monstrous, but anything short of them would be insufficient. Hon. Members on his right had objected to the information upon which the House was called on to act. The information was anonymous, or it had come from the police, and the police were not to be depended upon. The Bill was also, they said, founded on the testimony of the Magistrates, and the Magistrates were not to be depended on. When again the
 461 462 l 463
 Mr. O'Dwyer  regretted, that only one unpaid Magistrate in that county had been found to exercise fully the duties of his office; and that other Magistrates had not followed his example, in going about among the farmers and peasantry, and endeavouring to allay discontent by advice and assistance. Fie was convinced, that if a proper feeling was cultivated between the Magistracy and the people, outrages would at least be lessened, and might be expected entirely to cease. The prayer of the petition he most heartily concurred in, and gave it his best support.
 Mr. Charles Buller  moved the adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. Harvey  rose to order. He understood that the question was, whether the debate should be adjourned: and he did not understand that the observations of the hon. Baronet respecting the hon. member for Middlesex, however well expressed, could have aught to do with that question.
 Mr. Ronayne  opposed the Bill. He trusted, that the same attention would be given to an advocate of liberty, and enemy of tyranny and oppression, as had been given to the last speaker, who had avowed himself the advocate of coercion and oppression for his unhappy country. The preamble of this Bill set forth, that "a dangerous conspiracy was prevalent in certain parts of Ireland, against the rights of property, &c." Now, he was very much at a loss to understand against what species of properly this dangerous conspiracy was prevalent, except it were that of tithes—a property to which the present proceedings of Ministers bore no reference. The preamble next set forth the dangers resulting from "tumultuous assemblies of large bodies of ill-disposed persons, calculated to excite general alarm and intimidation." Now it appeared to him, that not the slightest evidence had been produced to substantiate this allegation "of the assemblage of large bodies." On the contrary, the only assemblages mentioned had been in three or four of the inland counties, and only proved the existence of a species of Agrarian violence; but he denied, that large bodies of armed men were disturbing the free course of justice. There was also in the Bill a provision to suppress particular associations by the authority of the Lord Lieutenant. That was a most arbitrary provision, the drift of which could easily be perceived. As to the evidence produced by the right hon. Secretary to connect predial with political agitation, it contained no proof what-
 440 cheers Stanley: Oxmantown 441 oh! oh! 442 "Tros Tyriusve mihi nullo discrimine agetur." 443 444 "As long as Popish spade and scythe Shall dig and cut the Sassanagh's tithe. And Popish purses pay the tolls On Heaven's road for Sassanagh souls— So long the merry reign shall be Of Captain Rock and his family." "Non tali auxilio, nee defensoribus istis, Tompus eget," 445 "While peals of pleasantry amuse us there With merry descants on a nation's woes."
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  presented a Petition, very numerously signed from the inhabitants and landowners of Mitchel-town, and another place in the county of Cork. The petitioners stated, that they heard, with feelings of bitter distress, that Martial-law was to be the first boon offered by a Reformed House of Parliament to a people who had been chiefly instrumental in passing the Reform Bill. They were surprised at the credulity of the Irish Government, and of the British Ministry, in believing the statements which had been foisted upon them. They stated that those statements had chiefly, if not entirely proceeded from the Conservative societies, which had already done their utmost to prove that the late Reform measures of the
 399 400
 Mr. Sinclair  considered, that the hon. Member who had presented the petitions, and the other Gentlemen who were opposed to the measure, had entirely misrepresented the state of feeling as to the question in Ireland. They had stated, that the whole of the Irish population were opposed to this measure. Now he would take upon himself to say, that a numerous and influential body were in its favour, by far more respectable than those who opposed it, and he had no hesitation in saying, that those hon. Members who supported the measure would receive the gratitude of their constituents for doing so.
 Mr. Barron  then presented a petition from the parish of Glandine, in the county of Waterford, also against the measure; and assured the House, that it was the voluntary petition of the persons who signed it. They stated, that that part of the country was in a state of perfect quiet, and that there had not been in their neighbourhood a single outrage within the last twelve months. He also presented a petition from the parish of St. Patrick, in the city of Waterford, against the Bill. The hon. Member begged to be allowed to read a paragraph from a letter which he had received from the
 397
 Mr. Barron  presented a petition against the Bill from the parish of Trinity without, in Dublin. The hon. Member then presented one of a similar nature from the inhabitants of the city of Waterford, agreed to at a public meeting. The meet-
 396
 Mr. Barron  wished to take that opportunity of complaining of an attack made upon him in  The Standard l l The Standard l l The Standard
 Mr. Barron  said, this representation was very different from the statement made by an hon. Member, who had but very lately arrived from Ireland. In the course of the debate on the first reading of the Bill, It had been said by a noble Lord, and by another hon. Member, that it was unsafe for Gentlemen to participate in the sports of the field. Now, he was informed, and firmly believed, that at the very moment he was addressing the House, any Gentleman might join in sporting in the county of Kilkenny; and he positively denied, that it was the custom of those Gentlemen to go out armed with pistols.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  could state, for the satisfaction of the noble Lord, that no occasion now existed in the county of Kilkenny for the reverend Gentleman to employ any force for the protection of his property from outrage.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the hon. member for Middlesex being absent, had sent a message to him. The House would not blame his hon. friend for being absent, as it was in consequence of the illness of a member of his family. Anticipating the objection which had been made to an adjournment upon the Order of the Day,
 464 Lauhter
 Mr. Buckingham  in presenting a petition from the inhabitants of Sheffield, in the county of York, being members of the Political Union in that town, said, the petitioners expressed their knowledge that Ireland had long been afflicted by misrule and numerous grievances, and they, therefore, were glad to learn that measures of relief were contemplated by his Majesty's Government; but they also stated, that they witnessed with much pain and indignation, the introduction of a Bill for the adoption of severe measures towards Ireland, which nothing but imperious neces-
 401
 Mr. James Grattan , from being connected with this part of the county, felt it to be his duty to state that few or no outrages were known in Queen's County, and to the honour of the gentry of that county, they had always been ready to discharge their duty when called upon. For his own part, he was a landed proprietor of the county, and he should be always ready to discharge his duty in support of the established laws; and as the best mode of his discharging his duty on the present occasion, he would repeat to-night the vote he gave a few nights [ago against the measure now proposed as the only way he could conscientiously act in support of the laws of his country.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, the noble Lord, the member for King's County, had admitted that his county had been undisturbed till within the last two years. Now, he was surprised that, for so short a period of disturbance, the noble Lord was prepared to surrender his constituents to a measure so arbitrary and despotic as the present. He did not deny, that disturbance existed in Ireland to an extent sufficient to warrant the grant of some additional powers to the Executive. He would have gone as far, in compliance with the re-
 458 459
 Mr. John Browne : The hon. Member who had last spoken, had maintained that there was no evidence before the House to support the adoption of the present measure. He begged to say, that he had himself received the strongest testimony as to the state of Ireland, from men of character, of high station, and of great importance in that House. As far as he
 446 447
 Mr. John Browne , in explanation, said, that he had no intention of giving offence to the hon. Members opposite, and least
 453
 Mr. Parker  craved the indulgence of the House, while he stated shortly the reason which induced him not to support the prayer of this petition. He considered that the circumstances of imperious necessity which the petitioners said would justify the measure, had already arisen. In his judgment, if a bill similar to this had not been brought in by Ministers, very soon one still more severe in its provisions would have become necessary. Government would have deserved the indignation of the country if they had not stepped in and met the necessity of the case by endeavouring to protect the peaceable subjects of the King, from that anarchy, deprivation, and outrage, which he was sorry to see pervaded the Sister Kingdom. This was the sole reason why he could not support the prayer of the petition. He had a perfect right to say, that he did not concur with it, and he protested against the imputations thrown out by Members on the opposition side of the House, as if they were the sole guardians of the Constitution, and monopolized all regard to the liberties, and peace, and happiness of Ireland.
 Mr. Richards , in supporting the prayer of the petition, begged to set himself right as to what he had stated on a former night, which had been denied by the hon. member for Roscommon, on the authority of a private letter. He (Mr. Richards) had since found out the clergyman to whom he then alluded, and he had seen both him and his wife. What he then stated had been grossly misrepresented. That clergyman was now perfectly ready to prove his statement at the Bar of the House. He had no objection to give the name, as he had the authority of the clergyman himself to do so; but if he named him, he must make a few observations to protect the credit of his own statement. There were but three discrepancies between his statement, and that of the clergyman. One was, that the clergyman did not make use of the phrase "town park," which in Ireland denoted pasture land near a town, as he (Mr. Richards) had stated, but that was not material. Another was, that he had stated the clergyman to have a living of 400 l l
 Mr. Richards  regretted, that he had not obtained the notice of the House in the debate on the first reading of this Bill; because, approving as he did, of the two first enactments of the Bill, and, to that limited extent, wishing to support it, he should, if he had had an opportunity of delivering his sentiments, have voted for the first reading, instead of against it. But he would never on any occasion, consent to vote for the suspension of one tittle of the liberties of any portion of the people, unless he was previously allowed, in the face of the House and of the country, to explain fully his reasons for doing so. An hon. Gentleman had asked, "whether there be a single Member of this House who would vote for the suppression of the Political Unions which have been organized in England?" To that question he would answer, that he was ready to vote for the suppression of such societies, either in England, Ireland, or any other part of the kingdom in which they might exist. Before the passing of the Reform Act, he had thought it not only proper but necessary to agitate. He had been himself,
 424 Habeas Corpus 425 Question 426 427 428 Question crambe repetita decies repetita 429 430 cries of 431
 Mr. Wilks  trusted, that hon. Members would not enter into discussions like the present, upon the presentation of petitions, otherwise the object of meeting at that hour would be completely lost sight of.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from the Political Union of Dunfermling, and one from the inhabitants of Forfar, against the Irish Disturbance Bill. The petitioners stated, that they viewed with great jealousy the substitution of military for civil law, and prayed that House so to modify the Bill as to afford protection to life and property in that country, without so far departing from the Constitution.
 Mr. Hume  said, that all names beyond their first entry should be struck out. He had now about forty petitions lying in the Vote-office ready to present, exclusive of eight or ten upon the subject of the Irish Bill, and if Members chose to take three or four chances, he thought he would be justified in taking twenty chances. He had, in fact, refused to accept petitions, because they came so thick upon him, and he had sent them to the Members of the places from which they came. He should move, that all names down more than once be struck off.
 Mr. Hume  wished to take the first opportunity of stating his opinion on this Bill. He assured the House that he had never risen to speak with more regret, or with greater pain. He felt the greatest
 406 407 408 409 410 411 l 412 413 414
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  begged leave to remark, in reference to the observation of his noble colleague, that the county which he represented had not been disturbed except during the last two years; he would remark that this disturbance arose out of the efforts of the inhabitants to free them-
 460
 Mr. Lalor , in presenting a petition from
 403
 Mr. O'Ferrall  said, he should not, probably, have risen upon this occasion, had it not been for the observations—he would say the unjustifiable observations—which had been made by the hon. member for Mayo, in reference to those hon. Members who, upon that side of the House, felt it their duty to oppose the measure. That hon. Member had taunted them with a want of independence. Now, he would tell that hon. Member, that, as far as he (Mr. M. O'Ferral) was concerned, he would not yield to him in independence, either as regarded property or principle; and he would further tell him, that those who opposed this measure, were fully as inde pendent as those who supported it. If the hon. Member alluded to the pledge as
 452
 Mr. Sullivan , on presenting a Petition from the Members of the Trades' Political Union of Kilkenny, said, that so far from the ends of justice being impeded by the intimidation of Juries, Mr. Justice Torrens had congratulated the Jury on their perseverance and determination in convicting persons who had been guilty of committing outrages, and since that period, he was happy to say no disturbances had taken place in that part of the country. Upon his own authority he could state, that as far as Kilkenny was concerned, there was no necessity whatever for coercive measures. He should take another opportunity of vindicating the county and city of Kilkenny from the aspersions which had been thrown upon it. In making the statement he had done, he did not mean to include those disturbers of the public peace who committed outrages that every body must deprecate and deplore, and to whom the strong arm of the law ought to be applied. If the arm of the law was not sufficiently strong to reach them, he would willingly lend his aid to his Majesty's Government to make such enactments as the urgency of the case required.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented a Petition most numerously and respectably signed, from the Inhabitants of Birmingham, praying the House not to pass the Irish Coercive Bill. The petitioners assured the House, that if the Bill received their sanction, they would not support, either directly or indirectly, the civil war that was contemplated by his Majesty's Ministers against Ireland, It was impossible, said the petitioners, that the people of England, in their present distress and destitution, could contribute in any way towards defraying the expenses of carrying on such a war. They had long looked upon the question of the Repeal of the Legislative Union of the two countries with feelings of the greatest anxiety, and in deprecating the proposed measures of coercion towards Ireland, they expressed a hope that Ministers would retrace their steps, and legislate for that country with a strict attention to the wants and wishes
 398
 Mr. Blackney  said, that in consequence of his name being so low upon the list, he had requested his hon. friend (Mr. Baldwin) to present some petitions for him. One of them contained the signatures of no less than 1,500 persons. The petitions had been in his possession for the last ten days, but in consequence of the regulations of the House, he had been totally unable to present them. He would not occupy the time of the House, but he trusted they would allow him to state, that he had seen the spot where the burning of corn had taken place at Hackets-town, and he could say, that no outrage had taken place in that parish for the last twelve months. The same observation would hold good with respect to Forres and several other parishes. At another opportunity he would make some statements, in the hope of convincing the noble Lord opposite, that the county of Carlow was not in that disturbed state in which it was generally supposed to be.
 Mr. William Roche : Before I proceed to state the reasons which influence me, in opposing every stage of the present Bill, I must take leave to refute, as far at least as regards myself, the sarcasm or insinuation of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last but one, "that several Irish Members owed their seats in this House to the sole protection of a certain distinguished individual, the hon. member for Dublin." Sir, with the highest respect for the splendid talents and patriotism of that distinguished personage—I sit here indebted to no persons, to no pledge, or compact, beyond the affection of my fellow citizens, and their confidence in my principles and intentions—principles which the distinguished individual alluded to has often certainly done me the gratifying honour of recognizing. Sir, with regard to the question before the House, were it not for its paramount—its vital importance to the rights, liberties, and destinies of Ireland—a country alternately coerced, neglected, or quacked; for be its disease what it may, the chalibeate, or steel, remedy is ever sure to be applied. Were it not also, Sir, for its great though not equally immediate importance to the rights and liberties of England, which, if it cruelly or coldly looks on while the march of these arbitrary enactments are approaching its own shores, vainly imagining it can say, "so far shalt thou go and no farther," may ere long render itself exposed to the application of the adage quoted by my hon. friend the member for Dublin, the other evening— "mutalo nomine 448 de te fabula narratur" 449 450
 The Speaker  said, the House would, perhaps, permit him to make some observations. In the first place, he believed, that the hon. member for Hertford (Sir John Sebright) had misunderstood the remarks of the hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton), who had merely stated that the hon. member for Middlesex was ready to withdraw his Motion, if it better suited the convenience of the House to divide upon a different subject—or a different day. There was certainly no intention of dictating to the House. Every one knew that a motion once made could not be withdrawn without the consent of the House; and it could not very well be done without the consent of the Member
 465
 The Speaker  said, he must interrupt the hon. Member in the course he was pursuing. It might, indeed, be very true, that what was stated in that letter had something to do with the subject before the House; but it did not relate immediately to the contents of the petition. The House was assembled for the purpose of receiving petitions. It had taken a most unusual step, and one that would not be authorised, but for the pressure of business before the House. Language and topics of the description referred to by the hon. Member, would, in common fairness, require to be replied to, and he put it to the House, whether, if the course pursued by the hon. Member was persisted in, the business of the House could be carried on with fairness to every Member.
 The Speaker  hoped the House would permit him to say a few words. The object of the arrangement made yesterday was to save time, but the result of this discussion would be to lose time. It was impossible at the morning meeting, that the Motion of the hon. Member could be made; but in calling the attention of the House to the petitions relative to the bill, that was to be discussed to-night, every Gentleman must know, that when his name was called, except under the pressure of circumstances like the present, he could dispose of all his petitions.
 The Speaker  said, of course; it would be unfair to strike off the name of any Member who had other petitions to present. Gentlemen would have the kind-
 392
 The Speaker  begged to re call to hon. Members what had passed yesterday, and he put it to them, whether those petitions only which related to the Irish Disturb ances Bill should be presented. If, when all those had been presented, there was an opportunity, of course petitions upon other subjects could be presented; but, he confessed, that he was not very sanguine in supposing, that there would be such an opportunity.
 The Solicitor General  said, that, as the Representative of Dudley, he had been; intrusted withtwo petitions relating to I this Bill—one of them against it, and the other inits favour. The former was adopted at a public meeting numerously attended, and was most numerously signed. He was bound to say, also, that he could vouch for the respectability of the persons signing it. The petitioners thought that the evils of Ireland arose from misgovernment, and that the cure for them was conciliation. They were opposed to the Bill atpresent before the House on account of its unconstitutional nature, and thought that no such Bill ought to pass, except in a case of the greatest necessity. He (the Solicitor General) most heartily concurred in the general principlesrelied upon by the petitioners; I but heshould be unworthy to represent them, if he did not say, that he considered the extraordinary emergency to which they referred had now arrived, and
 404
 The Solicitor General  said, he did not know how many clergymen had signed the petition; he had merely recognised the signature of Dr. Booker.
 Sir John Key  wished, in a very few words, to state the reasons which induced him to vote for the second reading of this Bill. He conceived, that it was impossible for any impartial man, who had heard the discussions that had taken place on this subject, not to arrive at the conclusion, that it was absolutely necessary to intrust his Majesty's Government with stronger powers, to put down the disgraceful insubordination that at present existed in Ireland. It had been said, that those who supported this measure wished to destroy the Constitution in Ireland. He was as ardent a friend to the Constitution as any man in that House, but he would ask, whether there existed at present anything like constitutional liberty in Ireland? He would ask, whether any man could deny, that there existed no liberty there just now, save the liberty of violating the laws, and murdering the peaceable inhabitants of the country? No one could be more desirous than he was to see re-
 451
 Sir John Sebright  did not know any right which any hon. Member had to bring a message from an absent Member. He would speak of the hon. member for Middlesex not eloquently but frankly. The hon. Member took up quite as much of the lime of the House as any Member was entitled to do; and he would also take upon himself to say, that the hon. Member, when present, laid down the law in that House, in a manner which he never saw done by any other individual whatever. In criticising the conduct of the hon. Member, he would, however, give him the praise which was his due. There was a time when the hon. Member deserved the thanks of the House and the country, because he confined himself to what he understood. Now, however, there was no one thing that could be brought forward in the House—no question of domestic or foreign policy—no constitutional question, however complicated, upon which the hon. Member did not speak, though certainly not in the most enlightened manner.
 Sir John Sebright  apologized. All he objected to was, the hon. member for Middlesex's making a speech by proxy.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that, in an experience of twenty-nine years, he had known no instance of an adjournment of a debate upon the Order of the Day. The House always either divided, or allowed the Order of the Day to be read, and then adjourned it to another day; but adjourning the debate on the Order of the Day was absurd.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that, in consequence of the manner in which the hon. member for Middlesex had shaped his Motion, they were now discussing whether the Order of the Day should or should not be read, histead of considering the main question, whether this Bill should be read a second time. The Resolution which had been proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex, would have been much more appropriately introduced upon the first reading of the Bill, instead of being brought forward now, after the Bill had been subjected to such a protracted discussion. He would contend, that suf-
 454 from Mr. Sheil 455 456 457
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day, for the second reading of the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill.
 Lord Althorp  feared, that if such a discussion were pursued, the whole object of the House for the presentation of petitions on the subject of the Irish Disturbances' Bill would be frustrated. What the hon. Member had stated might be very proper matter for discussion on the second reading of the Bill. In that discussion it would be determined what weight should be given to the petitions presented; and he hoped that no such discussion would be persisted in, during the time for presenting petitions, that the intentions of the House might not be frustrated.
 Lord Althorp  did not wish to interfere in the discussion of petitions, but he could not sit still and hear an attack made on a Gentleman who had as full a right to state his reasons for supporting a measure as those who had opposed it.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not occupy more than one moment. He had received a great number of letters from various petitioners, requesting him to support the prayer of the petitions. Out of respect to those petitioners, and to a great many others who had written to him from Scotland, he begged to state, that in supporting their prayer, the only reason that prevented him from addressing the House on those petitions being presented was, in consequence of the rule to which the House had agreed,
 Mr. Strickland  felt called upon to say a few words, in consequence of two of the petitions which the hon. Member had presented—namely, those from Huddersfield and Keightley. He knew many of those petitioners, who were men of the utmost respectability, and he felt convinced that they had no wish whatever to express their opinions too strongly; but the sentiments of freedom were strongly inherent in them. He could, however, not go to the full extent of supporting all parts of the prayers of these petitions, because he deviated from them upon this point, whether or not it had been proved by his Majesty's Government that there was a case of necessity for the course they had adopted, and he thought that a temporary departure from the Constitution ought to be allowed, for the protection of life and property. He should not support Government in the present measures, if he was not fully convinced that they would carry on every desirable Reform in the institutions of the country, and would without delay, effect that which
 471
 Colonel Henry Cavendish  said, it was true, that the Derby petition was signed by, as he understood, 3,5OO individuals, but as its contents did not accord with his feelings, he regretted to say he could not support the prayer of it.
 Mr. Handley  said, that he concurred entirely with part of the statement made in the petition that had just been presented from Boston. The petitioners said there were causes, and indeed individuals of all descriptions, even from Ireland, admitted that there were causes for some extraordinary measure. That the cause of the disturbances was the tithe law, he entirely agreed. He had given his support to the first reading of this Bill, and he proposed to support it through a second reading, considering that lreland was in that state which rendered it impossible for him to refuse his support to this or any other measure that might be propounded to overcome the illegal tyranny that prevailed at present in Ireland. There was, however, in this Bill, that to which he felt an invincible objection. If the Bill should be altered in Committee so as to enable him finally to give his support to it, it would afford him the greatest possible satisfaction. He con-
 474
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that no man could deny there had been committed in Ireland for the last sixty years outrages of the most distressing nature; but wherever the law had been put into active execution, those outrages had been speedily overcome. The Assizes in Ireland were now going on, and he had just received the Report from Waterford, where the Judge declared that the law was strong enough if only put into execution. The law had been found strong enough to punish the horrible murder that had been committed at Wexford; a trial had taken place—three persons had been capitally convicted, and two of them executed; one of them had declared his innocence to the last moment. He acknowledged that for other offences committed by him he ought justly to die, but that of the murder imputed to him he was perfectly innocent. Afterwards one of those who remained unexecuted even thanked the Jury for convicting him, acknowledged that he was the sole actor in the dreadful offence, and that the other two culprits were perfectly innocent. He was executed and the one remaining was to have his Majesty's free pardon. This, then, showed that, if even with all the precautions which the law gave, administered by its most experienced Judges, mistakes, and serious mistakes, were occasionally committed, how important it was that the administration of the law should not be taken out of the hands of these Judges, that the Trial by Jury should not be dispensed with, and that the liberties of the people should not be put into the hands of a few young officers. Let the Bill only linger in the House till the Assizes were over, and every pretext for taking away Trial by Jury, for suppressing the liberty of the Press, and confining men, women, and children in a common dungeon, would be exploded. This readiness on the part of English gentlemen of liberal principles, and honest judgments, to be carried away by anonymous statements, and on their authority to support such a measure as this, showed the necessity for a Repeal of the Union.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped, that the noble Lord would press the Bill forward as much as possible. The state of Ireland required that it should speedily pass into a law. Every Member knew the principles of the Bill, and they would be able to have the details in their hands to-morrow. He hoped, therefore, the noble Lord would not delay it.
 An Hon. Member  said, as the principles of the Bill were involved in the details of it, he would suggest a short delay.
 Mr. John Stanley  trusted that the noble Lord would not attend to any suggestion of the kind. It was most desirable, that remedial measure, which was one of many others, and which formed a distinguishing mark from that which they had to discuss this evening, should go forth to the world,
 480 pari passu
 Mr. Beaumont  trusted, that Ministers would not allow a single hour's delay to take place in the second reading of the Bill.
 An Hon. Member,  did not consider, that the measure went far enough, and trusted that Ministers would extend its provisions when it came before the House in Committee.
 Mr. Charles J. Kemyss Tynte  said, that he disagreed with Ministers upon the coercive measure, but quite concurred with them upon this Bill, and hoped, therefore, that no further delay would take place.
 Mr. Beaumont  said, that seeing from what quarter the proposition for delay came, his Majesty's Ministers would lose the confidence of the Irish people, if it were acceded to.
 Mr. Baring  doubted if such conduct, in reference to such a measure, had ever before been pursued in that House. At best the Bill could only be in the hands of Members on Tuesday, and it was clear, that between that and Thursday there could not be time to communicate with the part of the country to be chiefly affected by the measure. The Bishops' tenants were
 486
 Lord Duncannon  said, that he had laid some returns before the House connected with the state of the county of Carlow, by which it appeared, that since July, and previous to September, the number of Whitefoot outrages returned did not exceed fifty or sixty. In December last, there were 113; in January 205; and in February, which return he did not possess when he last spoke on the subject, he was happy to say, there was some diminution, the number being 146. These were all serious offences coming within the denomination of Whiteboyism. He would describe one or two of them. In one instance a man was dragged from his bed to the door of his house, and then placed upon his knees, and compelled to swear that he would, on the next day, give up some land which he held. In another case, a man was placed upon his knees before his door, and compelled to swear, that he would not pay more than a certain sum to his landlord. In the third case, the proceeding was a novel one; a man who had parted from his wife was placed upon his knees, and sworn to take her back on the following day. He admitted, that political feeling was very strong, and led to outrages on both sides. Daring the last election, a medical man received notice, that if he voted for Mr. Blackney, he might as well prepare his coffin. He did vote for him, and the next night he was pulled off his horse, and thrown into the river. He admitted also, that the influence of Dr. Doyle and the Catholic priests had kept his county quiet till December last, but the fact of their exertions having now failed, proved to him very strongly the necessity for increased powers.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that as this Bill involved the existence of the Protestant religion, the welfare of the Church tenantry, and even in some degree the integrity of the monarchy, and the permanence of connexion between the two countries, he thought it was not one which should be so precipitated in its passage through that House, as not to be known in the country where it was to operate, till it became the law. The hon. member for Bridport spoke as if he thought this measure would dispose of the tithe question; but it would do no such thing. It involved, however, other interests, which deserved the utmost deliberation, and serious attention of that House.
 Colonel Davies  said, it was for the House to decide whether it would submit to be thus constantly bullied—whether it would thus, night after night, be insulted, because hon. Gentlemen thought they were not sufficiently attended to, or their talents properly appreciated. They were now arrived at the eighth night of a debate
 527
 Colonel Davies  thought, if there was any occasion for complaint, it was, that the Bill had been too long delayed. As to what had been said by the hon. Baronet about hurrying it through the House, if thirty-six hours' notice was too short, and almost unexampled, he begged leave to refer the hon. Baronet, with all his experience, to the case of the Coercive Bill, which was read a first time on Monday, and a second time on the Wednesday following.
 Lord Darlington  thought the House would have reason to complain, if a measure of this importance were hastily passed through Parliament. He did not say, that it should not be passed  pari passu
 Mr. Petre  said, with respect to the principle of the Bill, it was well known, and he trusted the noble Lord would not give way.
 Lord John Russell  was convinced that no man would come down to that House on Thursday who was not prepared either to vote for or against the principle of the Bill—and it was the principle, and not the details, that was then to be dealt with. The details must necessarily be the subject of discussion when the Bill went into Committee, His noble friend (Lord Al thorp), when moving for leave to bring in the Bill, on the 12th February, had stated I he general outline, and the question on the second reading would be, whether the
 487
 Lord John Russell  said, he could not believe that what was insinuated by the hon. member for Tralee could possibly take place, namely, that the delay of a single day in bringing forward this Bill would induce the people of Ireland to withdraw their confidence from this House. He was sure that the people of Ireland were not so unjust, as from such a circumstance to conclude this House was indisposed to redress their grievances.
 Colonel Perceval  thought, that the present being one of a series of encroachments, he could not see on what ground the noble Lord persisted in his refusal to give time.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, he could not see such an important measure pressed forward—a measure which would give the first stab to the Established Church, with any undue haste; and he was surprised that such a great measure should have only one day between the first and second readings. He, for one, would not seek to conciliate the hon. and learned member for Dublin, by bringing forward that Bill with such precipitancy. With respect to the other Bill, they all knew that a great necessity existed for it; but no such necessity existed for the present Bill. There were many reasons which induced him to press on the noble Lord the granting of more time.
 Mr. Lynch  regretted, that his Majesty's Ministers should have been induced to bring forward such a measure, especially without inquiry. Why did they not act as they acted in 1819, when, being in opposition, they called on the Ministers of the day to prove their case. They might then have satisfied the country that they had some ground. But what had they done now? Why, they had shown that Kilkenny, Westmeath, Queen's County, Louth, part of Carlow, and, from the testimonies of the noble Lord (Oxmantown), on Friday last, he supposed he might add King's County, were in a state of disturbance. But was a general and sweeping measure like this to be applied to a partial evil? They had only proved half their
 516 Habeas Corpus 517 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 518 519 520 perse 521
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that this petition had been adopted at the public meeting, and thereby disproved an assertion made by an hon. Gentleman as to the feeling of the people upon this subject. An attempt had been made in Liverpool, by handing about papers to obtain signatures to a petition in favour of the Bill, but it had completely failed. These two facts—the one negative, and the other affirmative, might be taken as a true criterion of the state of public opinion in this important town, which he trusted would be thought entitled to weight in that House.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, he should certainly not detain the House by entering into any long discussion upon the general question; but he trusted that the House would permit him to advert to two or three particulars which had been mentioned in the course of the debate. He observed that hon. Members had extended the discussion to certain particulars, for which the present was certainly not the proper period; but considering the importance
 523 524 525 526
 Mr. Harvey  considered, that the Bill for the reformation of the Church of Ireland ought to be proceeded with, prior to the further argument on the Irish Coercive Bill, as it might supersede the necessity of that measure altogether. At the same time that he stated this, he could not subscribe to the doctrine or principles that had been laid down of that measure having undergone a discussion. The measure had been ushered into the House by the noble Lord opposite, no persons having delivered their opinions upon it, with the exception of the hon. member for Dublin; he considered it bad in detail, as upon that point the question would be, whether there should be a Church in Ireland, or not. He should wish both measures to be delayed. If the consideration of the Suppression Bill was delayed for a week
 481
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  did not exactly know what the hon. Member who spoke last meant. He begged to say, that all the patience was on his side the House; from it there had been no interruption whatever—all was attention, calmness, and respect.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  was surprised, if the hon. Member who spoke last really entertained the opinions he expressed, that he had not recommended the Ministers to abolish the tithes in Ireland, for by no other means could they deserve the confidence of the Irish, or carry on the government of that country successfully. The remedial measures which it had hitherto brought forward for Ireland, were a mockery of its distress and an outrage on its grievances.
 Mr. Shaw  reminded the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) that there were some items of calculation in the measure, which, with the short notice that had been given for the second reading, could not by possibility be properly investigated. In his view it was one of the most important bills ever brought before Parliament, and he
 479
 Mr. Robinson  bowed to the suggestions of the Chair.
 Mr. Robinson  wished, before the question was put, to ask whether that was the understanding or not of the House?
 Mr. Robinson  wished to know when this course would stop, as he felt sure the presentation of Irish petitions would exclude all others for some time to come?
 Mr. Robinson  was favourable to the principle of the measure, but recommended the noble Lord not to be precipitate, as it might be a dangerous precedent, and as it was most desirable that this great question should be discussed with calmness, moderation, and good temper.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped Ministers would consent to no delay in passing this measure. It should be recollected that there was another Bill passing through that House, applicable to Ireland, of a very different character from the Church Reform Bill. It was very important, therefore, that there should be no delay in the measure of conciliation. It was very desirable to conciliate Gentlemen opposite, but it was far more desirable to conciliate a nation than any set of Gentlemen in that House.
 Mr. Warburton  trusted, that not a single moment would be lost in forwarding the present Bill. They had it in the full and satisfactory evidence given before Sir 11. Parnell's Committee of last Session, that till the tithe question was finally settled, there would be no peace in Ireland. "What would, then, be the feelings of the people of that country, if they found this measure, remedial of their great grievance, delayed, while the coercive measure was not impeded in its progress.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  wished to remind the hon. Member who spoke last, that conciliation might be carried too far. He could not see upon what principle Ministers could oppose the short delay that was required.
 Mr. James Oswald  presented a Petition from the Glasgow Political Unionists against the Bill. The petitioners considered that that Bill was contrary to the principles of the British Constitution, and they stated, that if it were passed, it would shortly be found convenient to extend its provisions to Scotland and England. They felt indignant that the measure should have been introduced by his Majesty's Ministers, and they besought the House to restore the good opinion entertained of its wisdom and integrity, by throwing out that infamous and tyrannical measure and thereby prove to the world that the House was a protector and upholder of the liberty of the subject. He regretted, that he could not support the whole of the prayer of that petition. He was of opinion that a case had been made out which called for additional powers beyond the existing laws, to be placed at the disposal of the Government with regard to Ireland. He was satisfied that in some parts of Ireland there existed
 472
 Mr. James Talbot  would have contented himself with giving a silent vote in favour of Ministers had not his name been introduced during the discussion by the right hon. Irish Secretary, in reference to a use made of it in a letter addressed by Mr. O'Connell to the Irish Volunteers. He was sure that that learned Gentleman never intended to impute to him unworthy motives when voting in opposition to himself, for the learned Gentleman well knew that the imputation would be false:
 522
 Mr. Hawkins  rose to second the Amendment, and to state his reasons for doing so, having voted against the Amendment of the hon. member for Lambeth, and having been prepared to vote against that of the hon. member for Middlesex. The first of these Amendments, he must say, had been made the subject of a degree of overstrained ridicule which it by no means deserved. Its object appeared to him, not, as its opponents affected to believe, that the passing of this Bill should be delayed for one fortnight and no longer, but that the Bill should be suspended
 498 499 500 501 502 503 504 505 506 507 508
 Mr. Roebuck  had a number of petitions to present on the same subject. The first was from the inhabitants of the city of Bath, signed by nearly 4,000 persons. They took the earliest opportunity to state their sorrow, indignation, and alarm at the introduction into that House of coercive measures towards the long-suffering, and and now cruelly-treated people of Ireland, whose grievances they traced to a continued oppression and to national injustice. The hon. Member after presenting several other petitions on the same subject, and one from Kilcoman and another parish in the county of Mayo, observed:—The last petition came to him accompanied by a letter. He mentioned that letter to show how such documents were written. Letters had been received on the other side, declaring the county of Mayo to be dreadfully agitated.
 473 en masse
 Mr. Wilks  presented petitions from the members of a club professing the principles of the late Major Cartwright, from Boston and from Derby, signed by upwards of 3,000 persons.
 Mr. Wilks  hoped, the noble Lord, with all possible despatch, would let the present Bill go forth to the world, for it was one of which the people of Ireland universally approved.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that the delay of this measure proved how little his Majesty's Ministers were entitled to the confidence of the Irish people.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, he would not detain the House long, but he felt it his duty to protest against the whole Bill from beginning to end. The hon. member for Inverness-shire had asked how it was, that political agitation had not put down predial agitation during the last twelve months? He would tell the hon. Member that the reason was, because within that period the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had passed a Bill for the collection of tithes, which had had the effect of creating disaffection, discontent, and insurrection. He condemned the establishment of military tribunals, and maintained that no good reason had been shown why offences in Ireland should not be tried by a Judge and Jury. He liked better than anything he had yet heard as a substitute for the proposed Courts-martial the proposition of the hon. member for Newport, for sending over English lawyers in substitution of the Courts-martial. How many of their Judges had been English lawyers? How many of their Chan-
 528
 Mr. Lalor  would not press his Motion. He would conclude by imploring them in the name of his country, not to press this bloody law on unfortunate and ill-used Ireland.
 Mr. Lalor  contended, that all the accounts from Ireland received by Ministers, and which were employed as the foundation for this Bill, had been most grossly exaggerated. In the county he represented (Queen's County), he could safely assert, that crime had been magnified five hundredfold. The state of society in Ireland was not to be judged of by comparison with the state of society in England, and a vast deal more information was necessary on that subject before this measure could be justified. If an opportunity were afforded, he pledged himself to prove, that persons had been employed to seduce the lower orders, and to promote agitation, in order to form a foundation for the Bill. Fie had no objection to the adjournment of the debate; but if it were not adjourned, it was but fair to give him a hearing. Interruptions here taking place, the hon. Member moved the Adjournment of the Debate.
 Mr. Slaney  said, the noble Lord (Al thorp) had a most difficult task to perform. Gentlemen of extreme opinions called upon him to pursue diametrically opposite courses; and it became sincere men, who belonged to neither extreme, to
 482
 Mr. Robert Wallace  supported the prayer of the petitions, particularly those from Renfrew and Greenock. The latter place, it was to be remembered, was the largest seaport in Scotland, and upwards of 4,000 of its inhabitants had signed the petition, who were a religious and moral class of people. He confessed that, when he was returned by his constituents as a Member of that House, they did expect that he would be able to give his support to his Majesty's Ministers, but he had since that period found it to be his duty to oppose them; first, upon the Address, then relative to Sinecures, and lastly, upon the present Bill; and at a meeting which had taken place, his constituents had publicly returned him their thanks for the course he had taken.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the other Bill for coercive measures was justified by the urgency of the case, but the present Bill introduced a principle of great magnitude and importance, namely—whether they were to have in Ireland an Established Church or not. He trusted that his Majesty's Government would, under the circumstance of the great importance of the preliminary question, give more time than twenty-four hours before they were called on to discuss it. He trusted, at least, they should have a few days.
 Mr. Blackney  regretted that the noble Lord, the Lord Lieutenant of Carlow, (Lord Duncannon), had not been present when he had presented some petitions from that county, or the noble Lord would have been convinced that its inhabitants were as peaceable as men could be. Up to the last month, it had enjoyed comparative tranquillity. The noble Lord said, that he had lately heard some reports of disturbances, but he was of opinion that they
 513 Question Question 514 s
 Mr. Cobbett  seconded the Motion.
 MR. Cobbett  said, he had had the honour of having committed to his care thirty petitions upon the subject of the Bill before the House, and had had the petitioners, who sent him other petitions, understood that their petitions were to pass through the post office, post-free, he should have had ten or fifteen more petitions, each signed on an average by about 5,000 names. The rolls were large, and he had been compelled to return them to the post office, unless he had chosen to incur an expense of about 15 l l l 468 s s 469 470
 Mr. Ewart  presented a petition against this Bill, signed by 1,5,000 inhabitants of Liverpool. The petitioners objected to the transfer of the judicial authority into the hands of military officers, and thought such a course would be destructive of the moral influence of the law, and was utterly unjustified by the necessity of the case. They observed also that it would revive feelings of animosity which had now happily subsided, and believed that the majority of the House were unacquainted with the misery under which the inhabitants of Ireland groaned. They felt convinced that any attempt to enforce the payment of the arrear of tithes would only have the effect of causing the expenditure of much money and the shedding of much human blood, besides ultimately leading to the most deplorable consequences. The petitioners concluded by praying that the House would not proceed with the Bill till after further inquiry. He (Mr. Ewart) concurred in almost every statement of the petitioners. He was decidedly against substituting Martial Law for Civil Law, or
 477
 Mr. Gillon  had a great number of petitions from his native county against the Bill. The first was from his own constituents in the borough of Lanark, who stated that they viewed with great alarm the introduction of a measure winch was to set aside the constitutional government of Ireland, and to substitute in Its stead military despotism. They perceived in that measure a strong desire to stifle the opinions of the people—they wanted words to express their abhorrence and detestation of it, and they considered it as waging war against the liberties of the people. They were convinced that if those powers were granted, it would only be a prelude to a similar measure in this country. They, therefore, prayed the House to reject with scorn and indignation any attempt to make the House a party to so gross a measure, and they hoped that measures would speedily be introduced to remove all the grievances that oppressed Ireland. He had also four petitions of a similar nature, all praying for the rejection of the Bill, and declaring the belief of the petitioners that tranquillity would not be restored in Ireland until the Established Church of that country was done away with, and the oppressive tithe system extinguished. In that opinion he most cordially concurred. The first was from 669 of his constituents in the borough of Hamilton. The next was from a place in the county of Fife; from the inhabitants of Cupar, in Fife, praying for the removal of the Church Establishment in Ireland; and from the Political Union of Leslie, in Fife. He had also to present petitions from Aberdeen, and other places not to impose on so many millions of their fellow-subjects a system of military despotism. A most important petition was signed by 3,728 respectable inhabitants of Greenock. The petitioners viewed with horror and alarm the arbitrary and unconstitutional measures now adopting towards Ireland; and they prayed that measures of an ameliorating kind might be speedily introduced. They besought the House at once to reject the Bill now before them, and to pass humane and salutary laws, as a means of promoting peace and good order in Ireland. Having presented so many petitions against that Bill from his native country, he should only say, that it was
 476
 The Speaker  observed, that when it should stop would depend upon the decision of the House. But if that understanding was now to be departed from, many hon. Members who had petitions to present of a different nature, and who were absent on the understanding that petitions against the Irish Coercive Bill only were to be presented, would be unfairly dealt with, and have great reason to complain.
 The Speaker  did not know whether the hon. Member was in the House at the time the understanding took place; but he could assure the hon. Member that he was. The hon. member for Dublin, who had a large number of petitions to present, had been stopped short in the presentation of his petitions, upon the understanding that similar petitions only were to be presented this day. He had no doubt that such was the opinion of the House on Friday, but
 467
 The Speaker  said, that he was about to proceed with the Public List. If he rightly understood the feelings of the House on Friday, no public petitions were to be presented, except those which had reference to the Irish Coercive Bill.
 Sir Francis Vincent  had voted with great repugnance for the Irish coercive measure, merely in consequence of the professions of his Majesty's Government to bring forward, without delay, remedial measures, and he thought it exceedingly desirable that as little time should elapse as possible, before the second reading of the Irish Church Reform Bill.
 Sir Robert Inglis  begged leave to say that he felt it his duty, at every stage, to make objections to the Bill. He was certainly justified in requesting the noble Lord to take care that a sufficient interval should take place between the first and second reading, so as to enable those whose interests were chiefly affected to have some knowledge of the measure. He thought that less than six days would scarcely enable gentlemen to properly consider and determine upon this matter.
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not, in the course of his experience, remember a case in which a bill of so much importance was pressed forward with so much inopportune eagerness and haste, as that thirty-six hours' notice only should be given, after it had been formally introduced, of its second reading. He complained, that while it involved the interests of many persons in the other parts of the empire, the discussion on its second reading should take place before copies of the Bill could, by any possibility, come into the possession of those who were most warmly interested in everyone of its provisions. He knew something, indeed, of the principle of the Bill, from the noble Lord's own statement on a former evening, and as far as he understood it, he was prepared to condemn it. Nevertheless, he contended, that in cases of this dption, the country should not be taken by surprise.
 Sir Robert Inglis  could not omit that opportunity of stating, that, although he did not know particularly the different provisions of this Bill, he knew enough to enable him to say, that he completely disapproved of, and felt disgusted with, the principle of it. Indeed, the more he considered what the noble Lord had stated concerning it, the more he was disgusted with it. He hoped the noble Lord would lake care to have it printed and circulated
 478
 Sir Robert Peel  could hardly credit, that the noble Lord meant that a bill of such extraordinary importance, and which would not be in the hands of Members till Tuesday, should be read a second time on Wednesday. He had been asked many questions respecting its principles and provisions, and invariably answered, "Let us suspend our judgment till it comes before us in a tangible and examinable form." But would it not be a mere mockery to talk of duly examining and deliberately deciding upon a measure with which they were made acquainted only a few hours before they were called upon to express their opinion? There was no precedent for such uncalled-for haste; indeed, more time would be afforded for a bill of far less importance.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he would put it to the noble Lord to say whether or not it was a fair ground to state that, because he wanted to satisfy the people of Ireland, he was about to introduce a conciliatory measure, in order to justify his coercive Bill, that therefore only one or two days should be suffered to elapse between the printing of the Bill, and the second reading of it. It was on the 12th of February that the noble Lord obtained permission to bring in this Bill. Why had not the noble Lord brought it in sooner? If he required additional time to that usually taken between obtaining leave to bring in a Bill, and actually bringing it in, was it not too much, after taking that unusual time, to deprive the House of two or three days, which they desired to have after the first reading, for the purpose of discussing
 483 484
 Lord Althorp  said, that a considerable time had elapsed since the plan of his Majesty's Government, with respect to Reform in the Church of Ireland, had been laid before the House, but, unfortunately, there had been some delay in preparing the Bill—a delay solely arising out of difficulties connected with the details of the measure, and not at all with reference to the principle of the Bill; they never felt the slightest doubt with respect to that. The House, of course, must know, from the statements he had made long ago, what was the principle of the Bill; and to decide upon that was all that they should have to do upon the second reading. They would be as competent to discharge that duty on Thursday as on any other day; and as to the supposed difference between Thursday and Monday, he confessed that, to him, it did not appear of any importance, and he felt quite assured, that Members would find it as easy to make up their minds upon it—that was upon the principle of the measure—on one day as on the other. The House had been for some weeks aware of the principle of the Bill. There was no great merit in hon. Members agreeing to the first reading of such a Bill—to do so was merely to act in accordance with the acknowledged practice of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman could not fail to recollect, that when the Bill was brought in for Catholic Emancipation, there was no debate on the first reading of the Bill—the discussion which arose took place on the motion for leave to bring in the Bill; indeed, there was not a single case which he could recollect, on which a discussion took place on a first reading of a Bill, until the introduction of the coercive measure for Ireland. He must repeat, before he sat down, that he could not accede to the proposed delay, for as
 485
 Lord Althorp  should regret much to lose the confidence of any Gentleman upon such a question as this; nevertheless, if it would give satisfaction to any number of the hon. Members opposite, he was willing that the second reading should take place on Thursday, instead of Wednesday.
 Lord Althorp  did not think that the interruption had been more on this than on previous occasions. He should have been exceedingly glad if the hon. Member had been allowed to conclude; but he must say, he felt it to be absolutely his duty to resist any further adjournment, which was necessary, if they had any intention to get on with the business of the country. The hour was not very late. He should be glad if the House would attend to the hon. member for Queen's County; but, under any circumstances, he could not consent to adjourn.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. Baronet seemed sufficiently aware of the nature and provisions of the Bill to say, that he felt disgusted with it. He should take care that the Bill be printed, and put into the hands of Members to-morrow morning. The principle of the Bill was sufficiently well known and understood, to justify him in proposing that it be read a second time on Wednesday next. It was most desirable that the Bill should pass the House as early as possible.
 Lord Althorp  rose to order. He said,
 475
 Lord Althorp  had stated, that the Bill would be printed and in the hands of Members to-morrow. He thought the principle and details of the Bill sufficiently well understood to enable them to discuss and competently decide upon the merits of the measure, and he did not see any reasonable ground for delaying its second reading beyond Wednesday, as he had formerly stated.
 Lord Althorp  protested against the hon. Member's remarks. The measures of Government for the relief of Ireland had given general satisfaction.
 Lord Morpeth  was unwilling to thrust himself hastily forward, till he had heard the opinions of many other people. He contemplated this Bill with much sorrow, and he subscribed to the justice of all the epithets which, with great impartiality, both the friends and the enemies of the Bill had applied to it. He admitted, that it wasarbitrary, despotic, severe, and cruel. The hon. member for Liskeard spoke of it as an unwise measure, but in that opinion he did not agree. Another hon. Member termed it monstrous, and in print it had been called an infernal bill, but he objected to that epithet, as impugning the motives of its authors. It had been called monstrous and atrocious. He felt, nevertheless, that it was necessary to adopt it, because it had two attributes which rode over all the others. The Bill was, first, a measure of stern necessity; and next, it was a measure of sovereign mercy. To the best of his judgment, the Ministers had completely established their case. In every part of society the confidence in their characters was fully established, livery person with whom he was acquainted—in every society with which he mixed—he heard people congratulating them-
 509 510 l 511 512 Did I but purpose to embark with thee On the smooth surface of a summer sea; But would forsake the ship and make the shore, Where the winds whistle and the tempests roar.
 Lord Sandon  trusted the noble Lord's determination would not be influenced by any such consideration as that suggested by the last speaker. As far as he was able to judge of the Bill, he approved of its main outlines, but he thought that on a subject of so much importance, the proposition for a few days' delay was not unreasonable. It had always been the practice of the old Parliament to give the minority fair play—to allow them time to examine and state their objections to every measure that was proposed. He trusted that this good habit would be continued in the Reformed Parliament.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if this Amendment was put to the House he should most certainly second it. They were much indebted to the noble Lord opposite for bringing forward this Motion, and setting an example that would show bribery could not escape unpunished merely because fourteen days had elapsed without a petition being presented against the return. Hitherto there had been no means of reaching unsuccessful bribery, but he hoped that this Motion would have that effect. There had been up to this time no stimulus for bringing such cases before the House; he trusted that the House itself would now make up for that deficiency. He objected
 542
 Mr. Baring  said, this was a matter of great importance, for the House were now about to set a precedent for future cases. The House ought, therefore, carefully to consider what they were now about to lay down. The noble Lord opposite had intimated his intention of bringing in a measure of a legislative kind on this subject. He should have been better satisfied if they had waited for the measure of legislation, and then adapted the particular case to it, instead of bringing forward the particular case first, and then adapting a legislative measure to it. This was, in fact, a departure from the principle of the Grenville Act. Why was it not enough to ask, under the principle of that Act, for a Committee to investigate the election, and to declare the election void, for that was the most effectual punishment upon a man who had been guilty of bribery? He should like the noble Lord to tell them what he understood by the precedent which he now proposed to make. Did he intend on every allegation of bribery, a Committee should be appointed, as of right, by that House? If so, what security was to be given by either of the parties to prosecute their petition, or to pay costs, if they
 543 l
 Mr. Benelt,  referring to what had been said by a previous Member, who had asked out of what fund the charge for the defence of the accused freemen was to be paid, observed, that the whole Corporation Fund of Liverpool would be applicable to the purpose. The accused freemen were the tools of the Corporation, and the Corporation would defend its tools. He was opposed to the plan of striking off the name of any Member chosen by ballot to sit upon the Committee; but, at the same time, he thought that the Committee should be chosen from the Members present in the House at the time of the ballot, and who answered to their names.
 Mr. Wynn  regretted, that he was prevented attending when this subject was formerly under the consideration of the House. He believed, that the hon. Member who brought forward the proposition for the appointment of a Committee did so, not with a view of establishing a precedent but merely as a motion, affecting the Corporation of Liverpool. He grounded that motion on the Report of the Select Committee of 1830, in which it was alleged that great bribery prevailed at Liverpool; and upon a petition which had been then recently presented, complaining of the continuation of such practices, both at the elections of Members of Parliament, and at the elections of the municipal officers of the town; in consequence of this, the House
 546 547 548 l l l 549
 An Hon. Member  said, that he thought the present an unfair proceeding on the part of the hon. Member, that such a statement made in presence of the judges who were to decide in that case, would necessarily prejudice the cause of the parties connected with it.
 An Hon. Member  said, that before the House came to any determination on the Motion of the member for Coventry, be thought it might be well for him to take
 557
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if they were to enter into the discussion of an election, the merits of which were to come before them (otherwise, it was impossible but it must prejudice the case of the parties concerned), he could not but feel that the petition ought not to be received; at the same time, when an hon. Member moved for a Bill of Indemnity for witnesses who might be examined, and stated the grounds on which he made the Motion, he (Mr. Wynn) saw no reason why individuals might not be allowed to state that they were ready to bring forward such evidence as would render the Motion unnecessary. He did not see that in this case a Bill of Indemnity was necessary. He was decidedly favourable to the principle of the Bill; but he saw no reason why it should be limited to one borough; he saw no reason why the same principle which made such a bill proper as regarded Stafford, should not make it likewise proper as regarded Liverpool. He thought, that if a case of intimidation against any of the witnesses examined before the Committee were made out, the special report made by the Committee would be a sufficient ground for the House to suspend the sittings of the Committee. He wished for a general measure.
 Mr. O'Connell:  If we cannot have a general law, let us have a particular law. Here we are asked to give leave for the introduction of a Bill of Indemnity to protect the witnesses who are to give evidence in a case, which, if proved, the borough should, and certainly will, be disfranchised; for it is idle to think that if such a case of gross and notorious corruption and bribery be made out, as that related by the hon. member for Coventry, that the borough of Stafford can remain in schedule C, or any other schedule but schedule A. The hon. Member says, that if the evidence is of such a nature as cannot safely be brought before the Committee, the House can suspend the operations of the Committee till an Act of Indemnity is passed. But, is it not better to obviate every difficulty by passing the Act just now? To be sure the member for Stafford may, perhaps, have some good ground for objecting to the passing of such an Act, because it may prejudice his case, but I understand that he means to offer no objection to the Bill. If such cases as these are passed by, what is the use of the Reform Bill? You take away by it the direct nomination by individuals, but you leave the electors exposed to a more dangerous and equally certain corruption of the temptation offered to them by wealth—and the only difference between the reformed and the unreformed constituency, will be, that more crimes will be now necessary to procure the same returns. It is, therefore, the duty of the House to take the very first opportunity of punishing bribery, in order to prevent such practices in future. This is called the Reformed Parliament; but it is not reformed, unless it takes measures to prevent Members from obtaining seats in it by corrupting the electors. We ought to have no cobwebs in the way; let us sweep them all before us. The hon. Member has stated, that 524 out of 526 of the electors were bribed—surely that is a case for disfranchisement. So, there were two in the majority who were not bribed! What an exemplary pair they must have been! Their names should be written in letters of gold. It should be handed down to posterity that there were two honest men in Stafford. Such a scene as this I never heard of. It ought to break down every barrier, and will justify the House in at once extinguishing the borough of Stafford, if that borough is really as guilty as it is represented.
 Mr. Baring  said, that if reports were true, the corruptions of the borough of
 559
 Mr. Baring : But those gentlemen paid the money with which the electors were bribed to those electors. He certainly agreed with the hon. Member, that there were difficulties in the case which might prevent proof of bribery being brought home to those who were guilty, without such a Bill as that proposed; it might then be proper to adopt it; but to him it appeared that the Bill of Indemnity proposed by the hon. Member, was to cover the malpractices of the guilty, and to screen them from the effect of their guilt. He (Mr. Baring;) thought it was improbable, if corruption and bribery to such an enormous extent had been practised, that it would be at all difficult to prove it.
 Mr. Wynn  rose to order. He begged to ask, whether it was fair to prejudice the Jury, who were to try the merits of the case, by such statements.
 An Hon. Member  said, that if this Bill of Indemnity had any effect at all, it would be to protect the real delinquents. He could say, that the present members for Stafford had not been guilty of bribery, either directly or indirectly.
 Mr. Baring  thought the office of censor a most useful one. Hon. Gentlemen had only to judge for themselves of the effect of an unlicensed system in Paris to arrive at the same conclusion. The productions exhibited in some of the theatres must shock every moral mind. He was not favourable to a vexatious censorship, but one which would enforce a respect for sound morals and public decency.
 The Lord Advocate  rose to submit a Motion to the House on a very important subject—that of Reforming the Municipal Constitution of the Royal Burghs of Scotland. It was a subject of which the discussion was likely to be monopolized by the Scotch Members, and he, therefore, would not then enter into any details of the measure. He believed, that it would be more convenient to the House, and more conducive to a saving of time, if the discussion were taken at a future period. He proposed, therefore, to read the Bill a first and a second time  pro formâ
 The Lord Advocate  explained, that a considerable time would elapse before the Committee could come to any conclusion, that the Bill would be amply discussed, and that the Committee would readily listen to any suggestions. As to placing other Members on the Committee, it would be open to hon. Members to name whom they pleased when the Committee was appointed.
 The Lord Advocate  believed, that his Majesty's Government had it in contemplation to propose a measure for them. He could certainly say, for himself, that he had a Bill in preparation to amend the constitution of the boroughs alluded to by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Kennedy  thought the Committee might begin its labours immediately. An extension of the time sufficient to make the Bill known, would, however, be given, and the whole discussion, both on its principle and on its details, might be gone into after the Committee had completed its labours.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. Member would not. It would be of no use to receive the petitions of the people against the Bill after it was passed.
 Mr. Baring  considered the course pursued by the noble Lord to be very unfair to the people of England, whose interests were made to appear very subordinate to the interests of Ireland, and who were left in the dark as to the intentions of Ministers in reference to the great public questions which affected their dearest interests. The admitted urgency of the Irish Coercion Bill did not justify the noble Lord's most blameable silence respecting the Established Church, and the Bank Charter, and the East-Indian and West-Indian interests, and the tithes, and the other important questions, which must, however late, come under their consideration. What was to prevent the noble Lord devoting one evening to express the intentions of Ministers in relation to those great questions? There need be, then, no discussion; all that was wanting, was to know what measures Ministers proposed respecting these important interests.
 Mr. Baring  said, surely it was not meant that the public were not to discuss
 572
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that the Irish coercion measure was introduced to draw public attention from the violation of the pledges made by Government. They were thus enabled to shift aside the questions of economy, reduction of taxation, &c, and deny the country the relief which it had a right to claim at their hands.
 Mr. Lamb,  in explanation, said, he had not raised an obstacle on account of vested interests, but merely asked for time for them to make a case out, if they could. He doubted the propriety of extending the Bill to the provinces.
 Mr. Lamb  said, that as far as he was acquainted with the provisions of the Bill of his hon. friend, they had his approval, and he did hope, that the consequence of passing such a measure would be to elevate dramatic literature from that depressed state in which, he was sorry to say, it, as well as all other interests connected with the drama, had been for many years. It struck him that 10 l
 Mr. Lamb  did not mean to offer on this occasion, any opposition to the Bill proposed by his hon. friend; on the contrary, he thought that the time was come when some such measure should be passed with regard to dramatic performances. It was extremely doubtful whether any good would arise from the interference of the Legislature in controlling the public in matters of taste. There certainly was an idea in the metropolis, and in other towns where theatres existed, that the neighbourhood of theatres caused the introduction of a loose population, and at all events, their neighbourhood was often objected to by persons resident in the vicinity. It was therefore but right they should have the power of objecting to their introduction. He feared that there would be some difficulty as to the summary power proposed to be given to the Lord Chamberlain. In consequence of the repeal, as proposed by this Act, of
 565
 Captain William Gordon  expressed his regret that the measure was not in the first instance referred to a Committee of Inquiry, as had been done with respect to the English and Irish Corporations. He hoped, too, that the learned Lord would not confine the Select Committee to the Members for Scotch burghs.
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking, that if the names of three or four Gentlemen known to be eager either for or against the borough of Liverpool, were allowed to remain on the Committee, it would create a belief that the Committee generally were influenced by partiality either to one side or the other. He therefore thought it better that there should be a power of striking off a certain number of names;
 550
 Lord John Russell  said, that the House having come to a Resolution that it was expedient to appoint a Committee to examine into the subject of the Liverpool Election, he thought it proper that he should now bring before them the manner in which he proposed to carry that Resolution into effect. It was not necessary for him to say anything with respect to this particular case of Liverpool, for it had already been brought before the House, and they had decided that it was a case for an inquiry, although there had been no Committee previously appointed to examine into the validity of the return. A precedent of great importance had thus been set with regard to inquiries into the bribery and corruption practised in elections. It might be useful, under these circumstances, that he should state the view he had taken of this subject, and the course which he should feel called upon to recommend to the adoption of the House at this moment. The House was aware that, by its ancient Constitution, whenever any complaints were made as to elections, they were referred to
 539 540 l 541
 Lord John Russell  then moved, that two Members should be named by the House to conduct the inquiry; that twenty-one Members should be chosen by lot from among the Members present, to answer to their names, with such exemptions as the House should think lit to allow; that the two Members should strike off each four names from the list of twenty-one; and that, the thirteen remaining Members should constitute the Committee on the Liverpool Petition.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  differed from the hon. member for Aberdeenshire as to requiring a Committee of Inquiry, because the subject had already been much inquired into. Burgh Reform had agitated Scotland much more than Parliamentary Reform, and now that they had obtained the latter he hoped that the former would be also soon obtained. He recommended a sweeping and effectual Reform of the boroughs, similar to that which had been made of the Parliament, and not a bit-by-bit Reform.
 Mr. O'Dwyer,  having visited Paris, said, the result of his travels was, that, the differed from the hon. member for Essex.
 Mr. Harvey,  though highly disapproving of the coercive Bill, yet thought that the sooner it was disposed of the better. After the decided opinions expressed by the House on its necessity, it was hardly to be expected that it would be dropped in its present stage.
 Mr. Harvey  thought Members were departing very widely from the question really under consideration. As he understood, the House had already decided, that the alleged bribery practised at elections for the borough of Liverpool should be inquired into, and the only question was, the best mode of forming a Committee to carry on the investigation. If he (Mr. Harvey) had been present when the Motion was made, he should certainly have voted against the inquiry, upon the ground that the alleged bribery was not stated to have had any thing to do with the recent elections for Liverpool; and the Reform Bill having passed, he thought they should draw a veil over the proceedings which took place at elections previous to the passing of that measure. However, the House had decided that the inquiry was to take place; and he merely rose to state, that he objected to striking off the names of any number of Members at the discretion of nominees, as proposed, and considered it would be better at once to appoint a certain number of Members to form the Committee. Twenty-one Members might be too many; but why not appoint fifteen Members at once. The principle of striking off Members was a bad one. He also thought, that the attendance of Members on the Committee should be regular, and enforced as strictly, as it was under the Grenville Act.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, that there was no need of a censorship, as public morals had actually risen higher than the licence, which the censor could not lower. This was evident from the fact, that many of the old plays, which the censor could not prohibit from being
 567
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, he now rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill "for Licensing Theatres, and for the better regulation of Dramatic Performances in the Cities of London and Westminster, and within twenty miles thereof," and in doing so he should feel it necessary to trouble the House with but a very few observations. The Bill which he was now about to introduce was founded upon the recommendation of the Committee of last Session upon dramatic performances, and he should read to the House the paragraph from the Report in which that recommendation was contained:—'In respect to the licensing of theatres, the Committee are
 562 563 564
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the better protection of Dramatic Authors, said, that he did not feel it necessary to occupy the time of the House with many observations, as he was sure, that the necessity of some legislative measure on the subject was universally admitted. At this moment dramatic authors possessed no control over the use of their property, such as was very properly given to other labourers in the field of literature by the laws of copyright. A play, when published, might be acted upon any stage without the consent of the author, and without his deriving a single shilling from the profits of the performance. It might not only be acted at one theatre, but at 100 theatres, and though, perhaps, it filled the pockets of the managers, not a single penny might accrue from its performance, however successful, or however repeated, to the unfortunate author. It was to remedy such a state of things that he proposed to bring in the present Bill, and he begged to observe, that in the Committee which sat upon this subject last Session, there was not a single dissentient voice as to the injustice of the present system, and as to the advantages which literature would derive from a change in it such as that which he was now about to propose. By the Bill which he was going to bring in, it was proposed to allow to dramatic authors the same copyright that was, by the existing law, given to all other authors—namely, for twenty-eight years, or for the life of the author. It also enacted, that no play should be performed at any theatre without the author's consent, and that if played without his consent he should have the right of applying to a court of law for damages against the proprietor of the theatre where it was so played; the maximum of the damages to be given to him to be 50 l l 561
 Mr. Ellice  proceeded: He wished to state the extraordinary circumstances which induced him to move for the Bill. He had been informed by two individuals who had paid the money to the voters, that those tickets were issued to 524 out of the 526 voters who formed the majority in favour of the sitting Member. On one side of the tickets was marked the name of the party who voted and was entitled to the money; and on the other side was marked the sum to be paid to the voter. The sum varied from 4 l l 556
 Mr. Ellice : No one could be influenced by a historical account of the elections of Stafford. Mr. Sheridan, to induce the electors of Stafford to become Reformers, used to say, "At present you get 5 l l
 Mr. Edward Ellice  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to indemnify certain parties who might be called to give evidence relative to the circumstances of the last Election for the borough of Stafford. It had been ascertained, that an almost universal corruption prevailed in that borough during the late election: and a Committee had been consequently appointed by the House, to make inquiry into the subject, which was, he believed, to have held its first sitting on Thursday next. His object, in making this Motion, was to obtain a disclosure of the facts of the case, and to induce witnesses to come forward, in order that those guilty—if any—might be punished, and that the public might obtain the redress which was due to them in all such gross cases of corruption as that which appeared to have prevailed in this borough. If the Gentlemen returned did not defend their seats, no inquiry could of course be instituted, and no detection of the corrupt practices arrived at; but in this case, he understood the sitting Members were to defend their seats. From the representations made to him (Mr. Ellice), it would appear that at the Stafford election, a scene of such
 555
 Mr. Ellice  said, that if the House thought there was any better way of procuring the evidence necessary, he would be willing to adopt it. His only object in making the Motion at all was to expose the most notorious and extensive system of corruption which had ever come within his knowledge. The corruption of the borough of Stafford had long been notorious. Even before Mr. Sheridan represented it, the price of a vote was 5 l l
 Mr. Ellice  said, that the information which he received was from two gentlemen, neither of whom were Members of that House.
 Mr. Robinson  wished to ask the noble Lord, what arrangement he proposed to make, as to the presentation of petitions, on the next day.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he should take the sense of the House on that subject, when the time came.
 Mr. Robinson  was sure the noble Lord would do him the justice to say, that he had never shown himself disposed pertinaciously to resist the wishes of the Government;
 570
 Mr. Henry Grattan  hoped the hon. Member would waive his intention.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that as the object of the present system was the affording irrational amusements at the dearest rate, so the object of the present Bill would be to afford to the public rational amusements at the cheapest rate. The object of the great theatres seemed to be to administer rather to the physical than to the mental
 566 l l l
 Mr. Warburton  wished to ask the hon. member for Worcester if it were his intention to interfere with the arrangement for presenting petitions against the Bill? If the hon. Member meant to raise the question, he had better do it then. He thought a resolution might be moved, that no other petitions should be presented to-morrow than petitions relative to the Irish Bill. If there were no impropriety in that mode of settling the question, he should have no objection to move such a resolution.
 Mr. Warburton  moved an Amendment, that the ballot should be taken, and the Committee appointed, from Members not having leave of absence, not serving on Election Committees, or not having such other exemption as the House think fit.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, there was another point in the Motion that required an amendment. It was said in the Motion that the members of the Committee should be appointed from those who were present to answer to their names. He thought that limitation to be objectionable, for it was well known, that whenever an election petition was to be the subject of consultation, there was what was called "a whip" in the House, and Gentlemen went and got others to come down, in order to be there to answer to their names, or else got them to go away, that they might not he there to answer. To obviate the consequences of such a proceeding, he should propose, that whatever was the number agreed on to form the Committee, it should consist of that number of Members whose names were first drawn out of the Box, exempting of course, those who were absent from town, or were already serving upon Election Committees.
 Captain Dunlop  asked, whether the learned Lord meant to take any steps to improve the constitution of those boroughs which were not royal burghs? We understood the hon. Member to call them barony burghs.
 Mr. Hume  thought the hon. member for Worcester should raise the question then, and not wait till the next day.
 Mr. Hume  asked, if all the business of the country was to give place to the Irish Bill? On two grounds, the Bill, he thought, should be abandoned—first, because it entirely interrupted the business of the House; secondly, because, by every account from Ireland, it would be quite unnecessary to put into operation. But as to the precise course to be taken on the question before the House, he would not come to any understanding.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was sorry to hear the right hon. Gentleman say, that he conceived the censorship to be necessary, for he had hoped that he would have taken a different view of the subject. If he were asked why it was, that theatrical property had become depressed, he could find a ready answer in what he believed to be the fact, that it was because of the Lord Chamberlain and of the censorship, which had trammelled the drama until it became as it now was. Every position which the right hon. Gentleman had taken he conceived to be false. In fact, fees were demanded here and fees there, according to the evidence taken before the Committee of last Session, and thus an eternal interference was kept up with the exhibition of the regular drama. He was of opinion that there should be a free trade in that as well as in any thing else, in order that there might be a fair manifestation of the talent of the country in that department. He hoped, before the Bill should pass into a law, that sufficient attention would be paid to it, in order to do away with those mischievous restrictions and impediments to the drama.
 Mr. Hume,  did not hesitate in giving it as his decided opinion that an action would lie against the treasurer for that sum, and he advised the burgesses of Liverpool to look about them, and, if necessary, to commence proceedings to recover it back. As to the general question, he thought that the public money would be well expended upon inquiring into every case of bribery and corruption when it was made to appear that there was a good ground of accusation. He concurred with the hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton), that every Member whose name was drawn should be compelled to serve upon the Committee, whether he was or was not present at the time when the ballot took place; he would also, as in the case of Election Committees, make it compulsory upon them to attend. He hoped that this example would give warning to the elective body throughout the kingdom, that the House would itself proceed forthwith to detect and punish bribery, even if none of the parties thought prudent to prosecute. He begged the hon. member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason) to withdraw his Amendment, in order to make way for that of the hon. member for Bridport.
 Mr. Wason  remarked, that a deputation from Liverpool was at this moment in London, and that a similar deputation had been sent up last year, at an expense of no less than 1,200 l
 Mr. Wason  was opposed to that part of the plan by which the names of some of the Members were to be struck off. Such a course would operate most injuriously. He would take his own instance He was known to have exerted himself to discover these acts of bribery at Liverpool, and, of course, if his name should come up among the list of the twenty-one, he should be struck off by the noble Lord opposite, on behalf of the borough. It would be the same with others whose opinions were known. He should, therefore, propose, that they should take the first fifteen names given by the ballot, and that there should be no striking off afterwards. He proposed this as an Amendment to the Resolution of the noble Lord near him.
 Mr. Ewart  regretted that the Bill was confined to the metropolis. He had himself presented a petition from Liverpool, stating that, in that town and its neighbourhood, there was a population of 100,000 persons unprovided with theatrical amusement. He would move a clause to extend the Bill to the country, if the hon. Gentleman would not do so himself.
 Mr. Gillon  wished to ask, when the Committee would begin its labours? He hoped nothing would be done till the Bill had been printed and sent to Scotland, so
 568
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Member. The petition which he was about to present, was in substance an election petition; but the time had gone by when the House could receive such petitions. As, therefore, it could not be received as an election petition, the only way in which the House could at all receive it, was, in connexion with a Committee already appointed to take the matter into consideration, and to that Committee the House could refer it. He therefore put it to the hon. Member, whether, if he persisted in presenting that petition, he would not be calling on the House to do indirectly what they could not do according to the general rules laid down in such cases?
 The Speaker  said, the hon. member for Coventry was quite entitled to make his statement, in order to justify the Motion which he was about to make.
 The Speaker  thought that the hon. Member was quite in order.
 Sir Henry Willoughby : I trust the noble Lord will persevere in his original plan, and allow four names to be struck out on each side on the ballot. The number four is sufficient to keep out those who may have a strong bias; and yet not enough to strike the brains out of the Committee, as is said. Our object is to obtain a fair and impartial tribunal. I object altogether to the Committee, and I think, if such inquiries are to be pursued, it would be much better to constitute by law a proper tribunal, acting under the sanction of an oath, and when the attendance of those who are both Judges and Jury may be secured. The noble Lord has referred to a precedent at a period subsequent to the Revolution. It is notorious that at that period the proceedings before Committees were most scandalous and unfair; the majority in this House rode over the minority,
 551
 Sir John Wrottesley  thought the question now before the House deserving of great consideration. It appeared to him that the expense of such a proceeding would be much too considerable for the House to incur it without full deliberation. He could assure the hon. member for Middlesex, that all the reductions he could make in the estimates this year would not be sufficient to meet the expenses which must be incurred, if the principle was laid down, that the House should enter into such inquiries. The moment the public were aware that the House of Commons would enter into such inquiries at the public
 545
 Sir Robert Peel  could not help expressing his opinion, that the House had been inadvertently betrayed into the consideration of a plan which it would be most imprudent to adopt. The precedent they were about to establish would be most inconvenient and dangerous, inasmuch as it was calculated to throw aside the best tribunal that they had; namely, that appointed by the Grenville Act for the trial of election petitions. He thought, too, should the precedent be established, that, hereafter, individuals would prefer trying cases of bribery at the expense of the public, through the medium of such a Committee as it was now proposed to appoint, to trying them, as they must at present do, at their own expense, before a Committee appointed, in the ordinary and proper manner, under the Grenville Act. During the speeches of the noble Lord and others who had addressed the House on the present occasion, he had been looking to some of the petitions that had been presented in the course of the present Session of Parliament, and in which the recognizances had not been completed. In several of these he found allegations of bribery and corruption much stronger than those imputed in the case of Liverpool. What would the House do with those petitions? The recognizances not having been completed according to the ordinary practice they would be discharged. But, if in the instance of Liverpool a Committee of the hind now proposed were appointed, did it not follow, that they ought also to appoint similar Committees in all the other cases in which bribery and corruption were alleged, but which the parties had failed to come forward to prove, at their own risk and their own expense? He hoped that the general feeling of the House was opposed to the proposition; but if it were not—if it were determined to adopt it—he was sure the noble Lord would admit, that the machinery of the new plan should be made complete, and that they should understand the nature of the tribunal which was about to be constituted, the more particularly as it was one which, if once established, was likely to be called into very frequent action. But let him put it to the noble Lord, whether, in the case of a distant borough, a borough, for instance, in the west of Ireland, it would be just, on vague allegations of bribery, made by parties not
 552 553
 Sir Robert Peel  doubted, whether by law the Corporation of Liverpool could apply a shilling of its funds to the defence of the parties charged with bribery. According to one of the provisions of the Corporation Funds' Act, they could not devote any of the corporate monies to any purpose, even "incident upon an election;" and that the defence would be incident upon an election no man could doubt. To pay for the defence out of the Corporation funds, therefore, would be to violate a positive Act of Parliament: and he strongly advised the Treasurer of Liverpool, or whoever might
 544
 Lord Althorp  said, that, as a large majority of the House had been of opinion that a Committee should be appointed, the only question which the House had then to discuss was, how it should be appointed. There would be this difference between the nominees to this Committee and the nominees to election Committees: the latter were sworn—the former would not be sworn. Their duty would be limited to seeing that no injustice was done towards cither party. This Committee would differ in another respect from Election Committees. The Election Committees decided each case, and their decision was final: but this Committee would only have power to report to the House, and the House would be called upon to decide whether it would stand by their report or not. He did not think, that this plan would induce individuals to prosecute election petitions, not at their private expense, but at the expense of the public. Election petitions were in general presented by individuals for the purpose of unseating rival candidates, and of seating themselves; and in all former cases, as, for instance, in that of Grampound, where the inquiry was instituted at the public expense, the sitting Members had never been unseated, although the borough itself had been ultimately disfranchised. He did not think that it was necessary to have counsel heard before the Committee, but he thought that if, on the Report of this Committee, a bill were brought in with penal enactments, then the parties to be punished by them might be heard against such a bill by counsel at the Bar.
 Lord Althorp  thought it strange that the accommodation granted to him by the minority in the last Parliament should be refused to him in this.
 Lord Althorp  had always supposed that all the decisions of the House would be guided by good sense and discretion. He had, however, been apprehensive that the eagerness of Gentlemen to bring forward Motions would lead the House to attempt to do more business than it possibly could do in one Session. That apprehension had been realised. On looking at the Notice-book, he found so many notices of motions on very important subjects, that
 571
 Lord Althorp  said, it was impossible to raise the question then. The question could only be raised on the presentation of any individual petition; and it might be raised at any time when it was proposed to lay a petition on the Table. It was in the power of any hon. Member to present a petition; but it was in the power of the House to decide that it should not be received. The House, however, had no right to interfere and prevent Members from presenting petitions. There certainly was a general understanding, that the petitions relating to the Irish Bill should alone be presented; but the House could not prevent other petitions being brought before it, if hon. Gentlemen offered them. He had given notice of a motion, to call the attention of the House to the propriety, in the present state of business, of always taking the Orders of the Day before Notices, during the progress of the Irish Bill. He did not intend to take the sense of the House on that Motion, but he only wished that an understanding should be come to on the subject. At the time of the debates on the Reform Bill, he had made a similar proposition, and the Gentlemen opposed to him had concurred in the suggestion; and the consequence was, that other business was not allowed to interfere with it.' He should, therefore, on this occasion, only make such a suggestion; and he hoped that Gentlemen would not again press their notices, and allow the Orders of the Day to take precedence, so as not to interfere with the progress of the Irish Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it had been agreed, that petitions relative to the Irish Coercive Bill should be presented, and he hoped that hon. Members would adhere to that arrangement which had been made with a view of hearing those petitions which related to the Bill before it passed.
 Lord Althorp  hoped to be able to state the intentions of Ministers before the recess. It was plain, that a short expression or outline of their intended measures would only lead to misconception and misrepresentation. If he adopted the course suggested by the hon. Member, the propositions of Ministers would be attacked piecemeal throughout the country.
 Lord Sandon  said, that having agreed to the appointment of a Committee on a former night, he felt himself precluded from opposing the appointment of it now. He thought that, before it was appointed, the House ought to know something of the
 554 quorum
 Mr. Nicolas Filzsimon  said, that he had received letters from several merchants in Ireland, requesting him to raise his voice in this House against the run for gold, which, as stated by the hon. member for Kilkenny, he considered a most desperate measure. It had been attributed to the people of Ireland, but the origin of the run was to be found in certain insinuations made in the Irish papers, which, come from what quarter they might, he had no hesitation in saying, were most injurious to the people of Ireland; for it was the poor people who depended upon their labour that would suffer most, though, undoubtedly, landlords would suffer also.
 Mr. O'Connell , in rising to move an amendment to the Motion that the Speaker do leave the Chair, wished to call the attention of the House to that great principle of the Bill which involved the right of petitioning. He was not inclined to abandon any part of his own opinion for the convenience of any Gentleman who was opposed to the principle of the Bill. It was his intention not to yield his own judgment, maturely made up, upon points even of that description. The question before the House, he said, was one of vital importance: it was this—how much of the British Constitution was to be allowed hereafter to exist in Ireland? How far the Legislative Union was to be more than a mere name, or, rather, more than an absurd mockery. He was determined to take the opinion of the House, in the most explicit manner, upon every principle involved in what he might still call, as it was not passed, this atrocious Bill. He should propose the following amendment:—"That it be an instruction to the Committee to preserve inviolate and effectual the undoubted rights of the King's subjects in Ireland, peaceably to propose, prepare, and present petitions, for redress of grievance, to his Majesty, and to both houses of Parliament." He wished for no tumultuous proceedings—nothing that could be considered a breach of the peace, either actually, constructively, or which tended to it. Next, he asked for no right to be preserved but the right of petitioning for redress of grievances—nothing but
 591 bona fide Interruption 592 Habeas Corpus 593 594 595 Gazette 596
 Mr. O'Connell  rose and said, that the preamble contained a recital to which he entirely objected. It set forth—"And whereas divers meetings and assemblies, inconsistent with the public peace and safety, and with the exercise of regular Government, have for some time past been held ill Ireland; and whereas the laws now in force in that part of the United Kingdom have been found inadequate to the prompt and effectual suppression of the said mischiefs, and the interposition of Parliament is necessary for the purpose of checking the further progress of the same." Now, he denied the truth of that assertion. He would say, with great respect, that there never was a more false assertion introduced into an Act of Parliament. Anything so utterly devoid of truth never had been before declared in a public Assembly, as that the laws in that part of the united Kingdom were found inefficient for the
 602
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the preamble set forth that "the laws now in force in Ireland are inadequate to the prompt and effectual suppression of disturbance." But if the report to which he had referred were true, if the statement of the Chief Justice were correct, then there was no ground for the preamble nor for the Bill. He had not been contradicted in his statement, and he defied any man to contradict him. Where had the law, when properly administered, been found ineffectual? On the first or second reading of a bill they argued on the general principle; but in the Committee he wanted to come at particulars. He wanted proof of what was asserted in the preamble; he called for that proof; and if it were not given, then it would be impossible for the House to carry this measure with any show of justice.
 Mr. Stanley  would read one sentence from the preamble of the Bill, and a short passage from the report of the Committee on the state of Ireland, and having done so, he should leave it to the House to determine how far the assertion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that the preamble was negatived by the report, could be considered to be borne out by the facts of the case. The preamble stated that "Whereas the laws now in force in Ireland have been found inadequate to the prompt and effectual suppression of the said mischiefs. "This allegation was said to contain a statement which was at variance with fact, and the report of the Committee; and it was asserted that the laws were adequate to the "prompt and effectual suppression of the mischiefs," including not only "outrages against person and property," but "dangerous associations," which, be it remembered, never formed part of the inquiry undertaken by the Committee; therefore their report could not negative that portion of the preamble, even though it should be found to be at variance with the rest—a thing he utterly denied. The Committee state in their Report "that although it is quite true, as has been stated by the Chief Justice of the King's Bench in his charge to the Grand Jury of the Queen's County, that the ordinary and regular laws had been found sufficient to put down the various White boy associations which have from time to time existed, it is equally true that in every instance every association has made itself complete masters of the county where it has been formed, and committed all kinds of crimes and enormities
 606
 Mr. O'Connell  reiterated his former assertion that the Report negatived the preamble, but was willing, in conformity with the recommendation of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, to withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Stanley , in reply to the hon. member for Meath, had only to repeat what he had distinctly stated on a former occasion,—namely, that it was not the intention of Government to make this Act in any way available for the enforcement of any civil process, whether for the recovery of rent or tithes. He had also stated, that the mere opposition to the payment of tithes would not alone afford a reason for the introduction of this Act into any particular district, but that in cases where it had been introduced, the property of the clergy had as much right to be protected by it as the property of any other individuals, and that protection would be afforded by this Act.
 Mr. Stanley : The hon. Gentleman asked him, "what he considered to be rights of property?" He was perfectly prepared to answer the hon. Gentleman. He considered it to be a right of property that a man should be allowed to let his own land to whom he pleased. He considered it to be a right of property, that a man should be permitted to take his land from whom he pleased. It was a right of property to cultivate land as a man pleased. It was a right of property that a man should be maintained in the safe and secure enjoyment of his dwelling and his land, without being exposed to the incursions of nightly marauders and murderers, terrifying the peaceable inhabitants, burning their houses over their heads, dragging them from their beds, murdering them at their doors, and parading the roads and highways by night and by day, in the commission of every atrocity. Rights of property! Had the hon. Gentleman read the accounts recently received of a murder committed within these few days? A Roman Catholic gentleman had been brutally massacred in the noon-day in the county of Kilkenny, on the borders of Waterford, near the residence of the member for the city of Waterford—that hon. Member who denied the existence of disturbance in his part of the country. This unfortunate gentleman, who was described to be a most inoffensive man, was met on the high road by a party of ruffians, between twelve and one o'clock in the day, in the county mentioned. [A  Member 609
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there appeared to be two questions in discussion; one of which was whether this was or not a tithe bill. He most decidedly considered it such himself; it certainly embraced some other objects; but these were but mere marginal notes. The real text and body of the Bill constituted it essentially a tithe bill; it was altogether directed "against tumultuous meetings, or assemblies of evil-disposed persons," whose evil dispositions were wholly directed against tithe payment of tithe. He declared positively, that no case could be found in which a Special Commission had failed to restore order when such a case was alleged, he would undertake to demonstrate its incorrectness.
 Mr. O'Connell  doubted whether it were becoming in a Judge of the land to express the sentiments just delivered by the learned Recorder. He had called a man who was under trial, a seditious maniac. The question of sedition was for the Jury to decide, and it was premature in a Judge to deliver such an opinion. With respect to the Juries of Kilkenny being intimidated, the learned Recorder had alluded to the Carrickshaugh trial; but the day after that acquittal, four Whitefeet were convicted of murder, and three were executed. The hon. and learned Member entered into an explanation of all the circumstances of the Carrickshaugh trial, showing that the men were acquitted because their identity could not be proved, and because the police, who were the witnesses against them, contradicted themselves. He added, that one of the men so tried was a most humane man, having-assisted the wounded and carried some of those who were unable to walk. The learned Recorder spoke of a system which led to outrage in Ireland. Yes, there was a system, the offspring of that remnant of a party which had been defeated in Ireland. They nourished a most embittered spirit, and took care there should be no peace. They were men with souls of lead, hearts of stone, and fangs of iron. Their domination in the country, which they had maintained by unjust laws, would not allow the country to have peace. With respect to Baron Smith's charge, that was a political dissertation, and it was not decent in a Judge to deliver a political dissertation on subjects not to come before the Grand Jury. A political Judge was a bad Judge. In the county of Armagh,
 615
 Mr. O'Connell , in explanation, said, he had been accustomed to have his motives calumniated, and his life maligned. He had been an agitator—a successful agitator— hinc illœ lachrymœ no! no, no no, no!
 Mr. Stanley  had heard the hon. and learned Member with extreme surprise, whether he considered his character as a lawyer, or his recent declamations against
 620
 Mr. Stanley : That is the usual practice.
 Mr. Stanley : But you did not, say so. As to a Cabinet Minister, he could only say, if he had been a Minister at the time,
 624
 An Hon. Member  behind the Treasury Benches condemned the conduct of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He never heard more violent or personal language than was used by that Gentleman, which seemed to be, in some measure, echoed by the hon. member for Middlesex, who, however, still admitted that his friend was wrong. This reminded him of an apologue which he remembered to have read. It was this:—A philosopher had entered into an alliance with an animal; the philosopher laid down to sleep in a garden, but was tormented by gnats; the beast, wishing faithfully to fulfil his promise, struck the gnat off with his paw, but in doing so, broke the philosopher's head. He would not say what the animal was, but, for fear of misconstruction, he would observe, that the courteous demeanour of the hon. member for Middlesex as little warranted the comparison of his external appearance to a bear, as his internal feelings entitled him to be compared to the philosopher.
 Mr. Shell  said, the noble Lord opposite (Palmerston) was such an admirable pacificator on all occasions, that he was not surprised at the position which he took. He hoped that his laudable endeavours would be crowned with success, by effecting a conciliation between the two belligerent powers. He could not give the right hon. Gentleman credit for sincerity in his defence of the hon. member for Bodmin. He looked upon it as a sort of official indignation, used for the purpose of leading the House astray from the main question. It was said, they ought not to combine the legislative with the Executive. Why, this was what the Act itself did. It combined these two powers; for it called on two Justices of the Peace to disperse any meeting objected to by the Lord-lieutenant, and afterwards enabled them to act in a summary manner towards all offenders. The House must not suppose, that offences under this clause were to be tried by the Court of King's-bench; one, at least, of these offences was to be tried before a Justice of the Peace. There was no exception either of charitable meetings. In the Act which passed in 1819, there was this exception. Hundreds of orphans might, in consequence, be deprived of bread, or the means of education. He hoped the House would, at least, provide against the enormous abuses to which the powers given by the Act were at present liable.
 Mr. Stanley  objected to the Amendment, on the ground that its effect would be the tempting—in fact forcing—the Lord-lieutenant to proclaim a district which was not actually in a state of disturbance. The main object of the Bill was, the suppression of those agitation schemes which were the chief source of the disturbances in Ireland. Now, the grand focus of this mischievous agitation was the city of Dublin, which was wholly free from disturbance; so that, if the gallant Member's Amendment were adopted, the Lord-lieutenant would be forced to proclaim that city—that is, prevent its peaceable inhabitants from being out of their houses after sunset and before sunrise. Hon. Members should recollect, that the Lord-lieutenant would be invested with three powers, each distinct from the other—one for dispersing and prohibiting meetings tending to a breach of the peace, another for proclaiming a district, and a third for the establishing of Courts-martial. These three were not connected with each other, and
 628
 Mr. Beaumont  would support the clause as it stood, because he conceived it necessary to putting down that Whitefoot agitation which was the curse of Ireland. It was not against the mere midnight predial marauders—the mere physical Whitefeet, that the energies of a Reformed Parliament should be directed, but against the White-feet agitators—the intellectual marauders—who were the sole cause of the unhappy state of that country. It would be unjust to the predial Whitefeet to confound them with the political Whitefeet.
 Mr. Ruthven  wished that the House adjourn.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  said, that he understood the object of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) was to have the clause
 632 pro formâ
 Mr. Stanley  moved an Amendment, the object of which was, to exempt persons who should violate the enactments of the first clause from the jurisdiction of the Courts-martial, and leave them to be tried and punished according to the ordinary course of the law.
 Colonel Davies  proposed the insertion of the words, "in any part of Ireland proclaimed according to the provisions of this Act."
 Colonel Davies  looked to this clause with great alarm, because it vested an arbitrary power in the hands of the Lord-lieutenant.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, the hon. Member on the opposite side had blamed a few Members on that side of the House as being the cause of the disturbances which now reigned; and, if he recollected right, he also stated they were led by one man. He protected, for himself, as he believed he might for his friends, against being supposed to be blindly led by any individual. They were not the instruments of any man's ambition, nor the tools of any leading agitator, but honestly, independently, and according to their own conviction, they sought to re-establish the tranquillity of Ireland, by obtaining the full enjoyment of its rights and liberties.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, in answer to the observation of the right hon. member for Dungarvan, that it was not much to be wondered at if the friends of Ireland wore not successful in restoring peace to that country, when, as fast as they extinguished the flames, his Majesty's Ministers raised them again, by applying the brand to materials they knew to be so combustible. The disorder of the country arose from the measures of the Government, in enforcing the payment of tithes.
 Major Keppel  presented a petition from Diss, in the county of Norfolk, against the Irish Coercive Bill, and expressed his regret that it was not in his power to support it.
 Mr. Lamb  said, that having been alluded to by the hon. Member opposite, both as a member of the present Government, and as member for Dungarvan, be did not know in which character the question was put to him, He begged to say, however, that he had received no intelligence from Waterford of the result of the proceedings instituted for the recovery of tithes, or he should have been happy to have answered the question. He had, however, this day received tidings of a very different nature from that quarter—namely, tidings of the commission of a most horrible murder. If the hon. Gentleman opposite and his friends were exerting themselves to allay the disturbances of Ireland, he regretted that their exertions had not been more successful than the accounts which daily arrived from that country showed them to be.
 Mr. Lamb  would leave that part of the hon. Member's speech relating to the run
 589
 Mr. Edward Butler  thought, that the Government was only taking wise and proper precautions. He would, therefore, support the Ministers and oppose the Amendment.
 Lord Oxmantown  rose merely in consequence of the direct allusion which had been made to him by his hon. colleague. His hon. colleague had not contradicted one single fact which he (Lord Oxmantown) had stated the other night. He was much surprised that his hon. colleague should have stated, that his county was in a state of peace, notwithstanding within the last month, and almost at the hon. Member's own door, thirteen stand of arms had been taken, and one man most barbarously murdered.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, the hon. Baronet had expressed the greatest anxiety and wish to relieve Ireland from what he called the state of slavery under which she was at present sunk; yet at the same moment he signified his determination to vote for a bill which in that country would suppress public discussion, take away from the people the Trial by Jury, and throw them into the power of the military—that he would vote for a bill which would give an indemnity for every atrocity that might be committed. With all the good wishes expressed by the right hon. Baronet, he must say, that he took a most left-handed way of expressing them, and putting them in force, towards that unfortunate country.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  condemned the preamble as untrue. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland had endeavoured to prove its correctness by adducing evidence on which a man could not be convicted even of petty larceny. The preamble declared that there was in Ireland "a dangerous conspiracy against the rights of property." Had they any evidence of such a conspiracy? Did the numerous landed proprietors in that House bear out the allegation? He denied, that such a conspiracy existed against the landed property of Ireland. He repudiated the assertion as a gross untruth. He appealed to all who were acquainted with Ireland, to say, whether a conspiracy against the rights of property prevailed there? They would, he was confident, declare that rents were never better paid than at present. Had tithes been spoken of, the case would have been different. He admitted, that there was in Ireland a fixed, settled, determined resolution, (which he heartily applauded) not to pay tithes. There was another part of that preamble to which he objected. It spoke of "meetings and assemblies inconsistent with the public peace and safety." Now, he would aver, that the meetings here alluded to as being held in Ireland were not contrary to the public peace and tranquillity. The effect of this Bill would be to put down in Ireland that system which had saved the country from a sanguinary Revolution—he meant the right to petition
 604
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, they were about to deprive the people of Ireland of the protection of law, and transfer them to the power of unmitigated despotism, or at least to despotism mitigated only by the personal character of the man who, for the time being, was Lord-lieutenant. He would be the last man to say anything against the character or humanity of the noble Marquess who now held that situation; but what, he asked, might be the consequences of this Bill, when such a man as Lord Anglesey could make the statement which he had made to the hon. member for Cork? He gave as his definition of an illegal meeting—a meeting calculated to alarm the nerves of any man, and that such a meeting ought to be put down. The question, then, of the permission to hold these meetings depended not upon their tending to disturb the public
 627 physique
 Mr. Christopher Fitzsimon  cordially agreed with the petitioners in their prayer. The petition, he could attest, was signed most respectably. Not hitherto having had an opportunity of giving his opinion on this measure, he now begged leave to state, as one of the members for the Irish Metropolitan County, that he entirely objected to this Bill.
 Mr. Harvey  presented a Petition from the Members of the Union of the Working Classes at Bury St. Edmund's, Suffolk, against the Coercive Bill. He quite concurred in the suggestion which had been made by more than one hon. Member in the course of the day—namely, that if, instead of making petitions texts for long orations, they were simply to read them, they should be bettor complying with the objects of those who addressed them, and perhaps hear matter of more weight than they now occasionally did. At any rate, he did not think the petition in his hand an exception to this rule. The petition expressed the disappointment and regret of the petitioners that the first measure of a reformed Parliament should be one of such outrageous violation of the best principles of the Constitution, that it could not be tolerated in any country where the semblance of liberty existed. They particularly regretted the proposed suspension of the  Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Harvey  said, he had listened with attention to the petitions which had been presented, and which contained statements
 576
 Mr. David Roche  was extremely sorry to hoar the hon. member for Oldham recommending the people of Ireland to run to the banks for gold. For his own part, he would take upon himself to declare, that no two banks could be placed upon a better footing, than those carrying on the money affairs of Ireland. He trusted the hon. Member would not place Ireland in a state of confusion by such recommendations. If runs did take place, the consequence would be the withdrawal of credit by the banks,
 Mr. Dominick Browne  stated, that political intimidation was spreading throughout Ireland; and that if it were allowed
 630
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  felt satisfied that the run for gold would be most injurious to the agricultural population. The landed proprietors of the county of Cork had been in the habit of obtaining loans of money upon the credit of their crops, from the banks in the town, which had enabled them to employ the poor. He had received letters, however, informing him that all confidence was at an end, and that traders would no longer traffic with the agriculturists. The effect of a run for gold would be to add, not to excitement, but to poverty and misery, and therefore he deprecated it.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, he would support the Amendment on the ground taken by the hon. and learned member for Dublin—namely, that there was no foundation for the recital. The laws which came under his own knowledge in his practice, showed there was no want of Jurors to try, or evidence to give testimony at the late Special Commissions. When last July Lord Roden made a statement
 605
 Mr. Shaw : If I was a Judge of the land (and I am not) I apprehend my testimony in reference to a transaction with which I am personally unconnected, would be as little liable to suspicion as that of the feed advocate of the prisoners—but I omitted to mention this additional circumstance as to the Carrickshaugh trials—that a gentleman whom I saw yesterday reminded me, that a fortnight before those trials, he (who was then resident in that neighbourhood) wrote me word that no conviction could take place, as intimidation was so universal as to prevent any respectable Jurors from attending, and two Jurors told the Judge in Court, that they dared not serve and give honest verdicts. The result was, that the prisoners had to be enlarged, and the country has been since in a state of insubordination. Bonfires, previously prepared, carried the intelligence of the acquittal along a line of nearly twenty miles. A Magistrate of the county has sent me a statement of twenty-three Jurors having been attacked within the last few months [call  of Name
 Mr. Shaw  must say a few words in answer to the hon. and learned member for Tipperary (Mr. Shell), both in respect of the barbarous murder alluded to by the right hon. Secretary being a part of the system of outrage and combination against the laws then prevalent in Ireland, and as to the cessation of disturbance which the hon. and learned Gentleman described as having taken place in some parts of that country. He (Mr. Shaw) had that morning received a letter from a most respectable gentleman, a particular friend of his own, written from almost the spot where the murder of Mr. Leonard occurred. The letter stated—"I have since been present at the inquest, and it appears that he was murdered by three persons, a blunderbuss having been fired at him; but it is manifest that be received no gun-shot wound. It appears that he was walking up the hill beside his pony, which drew his gig, when
 612 613 Pilot 614
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the change proposed, as contrary to all the right hon. Gentleman's own principles, namely—taking away the power of Courts-martial to try the political agitator in the disturbed districts. He always considered it of much greater importance to punish the man who planned and encouraged crime, than him who was the real victim of such a man's devices. He thought the clause as it had stood very important for the purpose of putting down the political agitator as well as the poorer offender, by a summary process; but if the strength and efficiency of the Bill were thus to be frittered away, he could find no equivalent in passing it for the great violation of the law it involved, and which could alone be justified on the ground of paramount necessity.
 Mr. George Evans  presented a similar petition from Swords and Malahide. The petition was worded in strong language; but from the state of excitement into which Ireland was thrown by the attempt to bring in such a measure as this, that was not to be wondered at. The petitioners stated, that they regarded with horror the introduction of such a Bill as this—they also stated their conviction, from the late speech made by Mr. Stanley, that he was totally unfit for the office he now held of Secretary for Ireland, and prayed the House to address his Majesty for his removal. The hon. Member begged leave to state, that though he had voted for the Bill going into Committee, there were many parts of it so objectionable as to make it his bounden duty to try and amend them in the Committee. The suspension, for instance, of the  Habeas Corpus 585
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from the Borough of Marylebone against the Irish Coercive Bill. The petition was signed by 2,951 persons. The petitioners stated, that they had heard with horror and alarm, that a hill had passed the other House of Parliament to suspend the Constitution of Ireland, and to establish in that unhappy country Martial-law. The petitioners stated their belief that the only means of putting an end to the disturbances that
 573
 Mr. Robinson  would take that opportunity of stating, that in consequence of what had on a former evening been said by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was unwilling to oppose any suggestions which had been made to promote public business, and he should withdraw his opposition to the Irish petitions taking precedence this day; but, in doing so, he could not but express a hope, that in consequence of the understanding which had taken place, hon. Members would be induced not to enter into long and desultory discussions on the presentation of such petitions. He trusted that such a course would not be adopted this day, and that it would be the last on which hon. Members would feel it necessary to ask the House for the favour of being alone heard. If, however, hon. Members were to enter into long discussions on the presentation of these petitions, it would be utterly useless to attempt to proceed with the business of the House. The hon. member for Oldham had taken no less than an hour in the presentation of petitions the other day
 Mr. Robinson  asked if a verdict would stand, where one of five officers dissented?
 Mr. Goring  said, that the hon. and learned member had himself admitted twenty times, in the course of that night, that he was exhausted. With respect to personal attacks, he put it to the House, whether the hon. and learned Member had not launched out into personalities against every Member who differed from him, and endeavoured to browbeat him for uttering his opinions. He had told those Irish Members whom he called liberal, that they would not sit in that House again unless they acted as he wished, and the hon. and learned Member now threatened him. But he could tell the hon. and learned Member that the people of this country felt that the meaning of his violence and threats was this—that he alone should be the person to bring forward remedial measures, and that, unless he was consulted, and his opinions adopted, he would subvert the empire by the aid of his deluded countrymen.
 Mr. Goring  thought it was too bad that the whole business of the House should be stopped, because the hon. and learned Member had exhausted himself by attending a political union that morning.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that those Irish Members who opposed the present Bill, did not merit the accusation of having opposed it merely for the sake of thwarting the measures of his Majesty's Ministers. For his own part, he would say that, whenever their measures were beneficial to the nation, he would not oppose them; but as he considered this Bill in a very different light, he felt it not only his bounden duty, but also the duty of every Irish Member, to oppose it in all its stages. The object of the Bill was two-fold—to suppress predial and political agitation. No one could object to that part of it which had for its design the suppression of the former species of agitation which led continually to outrage; but everybody must disagree with that portion of it which related to political agitation. A course within the limits of the Constitution might be pursued which would effect the suppression of the latter sort of agitation. It was well known that an Act had existed fully sufficient for this latter case, and that if the right hon. Secretary for Ireland advised the adoption of it—for be seemed in the present instance to be chief adviser of Government—he would have the whole of the House in his favour. The Act he alluded to was the 10th George 4th, chapter the first. He would tell the right hon. Secretary why he had not made use of that Act. If he had, the English Members of that House would have taken it up, and asked, why break in upon the Constitution, when he had already the power of suppressing agitation by suppressing the hon. and learned member for Dublin? That would have been done some time ago, had not the Act expired just at the moment of the dissolution of Parliament. When such an Act could now be revived and put in force, he was surprised that the right hon. Secretary should come forward and ask
 600
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that the six Judges, in their charges to Grand Juries, had completely contradicted the allegations in the preamble; that such "alarm and intimidation" had been created "as materially to impede the due course of public justice, and to frustrate the ordinary modes of criminal prosecution." On the contrary, it appeared, that, in all eases, the fullest evidence had been procured. The individual, for instance, who had murdered the Maddoxes, was hanged at the present Assizes. Was the ordinary mode of criminal prosecution frustrated here? In short, it was a bill got up for the purpose of collecting tithe; and he put the question, with all due respect, to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, whether such was not really and truly the case?
 Mr. H. Grattan  moved, as an Amendment to the first clause, "That it shall and may be lawful for the Lord-lieutenant, or other Chief Governor or Governors of Leland, at any time after the passing of this Act, and from time to time during the continuance thereof, as occasion may require, by his or their order, to prohibit or suppress the meeting of any association, assembly, or body of persons in Ireland, which he or they shall deem to be dangerous to the public peace or safety," &c. the insertion of the words, "by and with the advice of his Majesty's Privy Council for Ireland specially summoned for that purpose."
 Mr. Henry Grattan  would take the hon. Member at his word. The Ministers were not only taking away the protection from life and property, but were actually robbing the people of their liberty, by this Bill, which, he again asserted, was to facilitate the collection of tithes. Within the last fortnight his Majesty's Attorney-General for Ireland had actually put up to sale the chattel interest of a tenant for tithes. After that, could they wonder at excitement—was not that adding fuel to flame? He would state one case of oppression with regard to the collection of tithes that had come to his own knowledge. In the county of Waterford, a sum of 4 l s d l 583 l s d
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that he held in his hands a number of petitions, which had come to him from eighteen or twenty different places—principally from parishes ill the counties of Meath, Clare, and Mayo—all against the Bill, and praying that it might not pass into a law. One of the petitions, in particular, deserved the attention of the House. The petitioners deplored the occurrence of several murders, but at the same time, stated that there were great exciting causes for all the outrages which had been committed, amongst which stood most prominently the levying of tithes and the Grand Jury Cess. On Monday last five individuals had been found guilty of White boy offences, and sentenced to punishment; so that it was preposterous for the noble Lord to suppose, that the law, as it at present stood, was not capable of reaching those or any other offences committed in Ireland, provided it was put into active execution. It was then to be
 578
 Mr. Lambert  said, that if he was meant by the hon. Member as one of the persons who had got into Parliament by agitation, he threw back the calumny with contempt. He was anxious to withdraw any term violating the rules of the House; but within those rules there was no language too strong to express the contempt with which he regarded the assertion of the hon. Member. He (Mr. Lambert) had obtained his scat by no undue influence; he had not been borne into the House, like others, upon the wings of faction; nor did he owe his scat, as that very hon. Member did, to factious agitation, more unwarrantable than that employed in any other county of Ireland. The hon. member for Wicklow had argued that this Bill was intended to facilitate the collection of tithes, and his argument was so forcible and direct, that nothing but a plain negative could overturn it. Ministers had declined negativing the assertion; they had, indeed, entered into explanations, and evaded a direct answer in such a manner, that there was no gentleman who must not be convinced that the collection of tithes was the real object. The hon. Secretary for Ireland acknowledged that he put decrees for the recovery of tithes into the hands of the police. Now this Bill authorised them to break open any house—and was it to be imagined that the decree would not then be executed? If, by such proceedings, it was hoped to check agitation, Ministers were utterly mistaken. A course so odious would defeat itself; for, though public agitation might be prevented, private could not; and individuals would meet to discuss their wrongs.
 Mr. Lambert : although he by no means approved of the powers of the Bill, and, indeed, considered them highly unconstitutional, was nevertheless convinced, that
 629
 Mr. Lambert  denied, that he was returned to that House by agitation; and reminded the hon. and learned member for Dublin of the time vi/hen, thinking that he was devoting his splendid talents to the cause of his country, he (Mr. Lambert) had stood by that hon. and learned Gentleman when he was deserted by other friends. Was it because he approved of that wholesome agitation which had produced Catholic Emancipation, that he should not wish to put down a species and extent of agitation incompatible with good Government?
 Mr. Warburton  asked, whether, as in the case of ordinary Courts-martial, the commanding officer would have the power of sending back a sentence for revision?
 Mr. Buckingham  rose, but was received with such coughing and cries of "question!"
 619
 Mr. Buckingham  objected to a postponement of the preamble, because it formed the foundation of the Bill; and the truth or falsehood of it formed a most important question, inasmuch as all the consequences of the Bill depended on that.
 Mr. James Grattan  deprecated the introduction of such topics during the discussion of Irish petitions.
 Mr. James Grattan  had no doubt, after this explanation, that the Act was to be applied to the collection of tithes. He
 608
 Mr. Brocklehurst  presented a similar Petition from Macclesfield, signed by 2,400 people. He must, however, take the opportunity of saying that, though an ardent supporter of constitutional liberty, still he could not support the prayer of this petition, after hearing the case made out by the Ministers, to arm the Government with the power, great though it was, which was proposed to be given them by that Bill. The petitioners stated, that they had heard with delight of the measures of conciliation which were stated to be in preparation; but they were of opinion that, even if they were all passed, they would not relieve that country from a tithe of its burthens, and grievances, and prayed the House not to pass that Bill before trying the effect which measures of conciliation would have.
 Mr. John Fielden  said, as the hon. Member could not support the prayer of the petition which he had presented, he (Mr. Fielden) would take that office upon himself. He begged to say, that he most cordially agreed with all the statements contained in it. When it was admitted by the hon. Member, as it had been, that the weavers of Macclesfield were in a state of great distress, they could not look with a favourable eye on their Representatives who supported a measure which must enhance the expenses of the country, and at least, prevent those burthens being diminished under which they laboured.
 Mr. Hume  was greatly surprised that any person could for a moment consider the preamble substantiated by the Report. As to what had been said about these outrages being carried on with impunity for a long time before the laws could have their due effect in suppressing them, whose fault was this—who were to blame for this long impunity for crime? Why, the Magistracy and the Government themselves. Indeed, he himself considered the Report conveyed a censure on the Magistrates and Government, for their indolence and inactivity. He denied that the Report proposed anything like the monstrously atrocious Bill now brought forward. The utmost it recommended was Special Commissions. With respect to the proposed Amendment, he fully concurred with the hon. and learned member for Dublin in protesting against the preamble. The usage of the House, however, was to postpone the agreement to the preamble of any Bill till the various provisions or
 607
 Mr. Hume  asked, was that to be the conduct of Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench—that the reception of a Member who wished to express his opinions? He was as anxious to get rid of the Bill as any other individual, but he protested against such indecorous behaviour. The cry of Order came with a bad grace from persons who refused an hon. Member a patient hearing. The mode of that Gentleman's reception was very improper; and should it be persisted in, he (Mr. Hume) would propose that the Chairman do quit the Chair, and ask leave to report progress.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise at the warmth of manner and language of the right hon. Gentleman. He had really hoped, that, whilst he was complaining of the conduct of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, the right hon. Gentleman would at least have exhibited a specimen of the manner in which Members should conduct themselves. His object in rising was to deprecate the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman in making every subject of discussion a personal matter between himself and the hon. and learned member for Dublin. What right had the right hon. Gentleman to taunt his hon. and learned friend with the Volunteer association? What right had he to refer to speeches made out of that House? The right hon. Gentleman really suffered the influence of personal pique to appear too strongly. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would confine himself to what took place within the walls of that House, and not deviate from the rules by adverting to what took place elsewhere. Whilst on the one hand he was not prepared to defend the expressions of the hon. and
 625
 Mr. Perrin  objected to confounding in this manner the Legislative and Executive powers; but he would not deny, that a strong case had been made out against the associations, some of which had been named. Perhaps, however, they might be suppressed by the common law. Dangerous they certainly were; but he would share the odium and responsibility of sup pressing them, if they should not be at present unlawful. In his opinion, it was more dangerous to grant the proposed powers to the Judges; and the course he should consequently recommend was, that the Lord-lieutenant should be empowered at once to disperse any meeting previously declared illegal.
 Mr. Perrin  said, that with the exception that this Bill went to take away Trial by Jury, he felt compelled to give it his concurrence. He lamented the state of the country had created the necessity of bringing in such a Bill; but, however reluctantly he did it, he should feel bound, in the course of the further discussion it might undergo, to give it his support.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  accused the hon. member for Shoreham (Mr. Goring) with having been guilty of needless and uncalled-for personality towards the hon. and learned member for Dublin but he advised the hon. Member to look to himself, or he might subject himself to a similar personal attack.
 Mr. O'Connell  said he would not, upon that understanding, press the Motion for the Chairman to report progress.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know where the hon. Member for the county of Wexford would have been but for political agitation? Not member for the county of Wexford, certainly. He did not allude to the lust, or the preceding election. What he meant was this. Was not the hon. member for Wexford of the same religion as he (Mr. O'Connell)? Could he have been a Member of Parliament, had it not been for the Emancipation, which was caused by political agitation? And now the hon. Gentleman, who had been so much benefited by political agitation, threw out his taunts against those to whom he was indebted for the advantage.
 Mr. O'Connell  denied that he had shown
 631
 Mr. O'Connell  declared, that he had been informed upon good authority, that of Sir William Brabazon, that the most virulent persecution in the county of Mayo was on the side of the hon. Member. There was not a more accomplished scholar or a more distinguished man than Dr. M' Hale; and he had never done an act more essential to the welfare of Ireland than in supporting the 40 s
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that it was half past twelve o'clock, and that they had been at it ever since five o'clock; nay, with very little intermission, since twelve o'clock at noon. Under such circumstances, the attention of the House could not be adequately bestowed on the important subject before them. He would, therefore, move, that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. O'Connell  put it to the House whether the Irish Members were to be allowed an opportunity of defending themselves? He had an Amendment to propose to the clause, but at that late hour he was unwilling to commence a fresh discussion.
 Mr. O'Connell  felt, that the malignity of the hon. Gentleman's charge carried its antidote in its folly. Those whom the hon. Gentleman had presumed to call "marauders" were his equals in every conventional qualification—not to say any thing touching endowments, natural or acquired. The attack of the hon. Member was as uncalled for as it was absurd and unfounded.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged the right hon. Gentleman to bear in mind, that if, on the one hand, the Lord-lieutenant would be forced by the Amendment to proclaim an undisturbed district, the inhabitants of those undisturbed districts might be, on the other hand, forced by the clause as it stood to follow the course pursued in the disturbed ones, seeing that their peaceable conduct did not insure them an exemption from despotism. The admission of the right hon. Gentleman, that the focus of agitation was perfectly free from disturbance, was a pretty comment on the Bill, and the unfounded assertions of its framers and supporters, which identified agitation with disturbance.
 Mr. O'Connell  was quite delighted at hearing the observations of the right hon. Gentleman. He had asserted, that the Bill was a copy of the former one—it was no such thing; it contained an additional grievance and an additional deprivation of right, for the disobeying a Lord-lieutenant's proclamation was made by it a misdemeanour.
 621 622
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed, that after the word "order," in the fourth line, there should be introduced these words, "with the consent and authority (delivered in writing) of the Judges of the King's Bench in Ireland, or any two of them." His object was, to take from the Lord Lieutenant the power of suppressing any meeting whatever, without the sanction of at least judicial men, acquainted with the law, and responsible to Parliament. As the Bill stood, the Lord-lieutenant could suppress any meeting, civil, corporate, political, or religious, without oath, suggestion, or insinuation, from any person, of an evil intention entertained by the meeting. The law of Ireland was the Lord-lieutenant's declaration;  Sic volo, sic jubeo; stat pro ratione voluntas
 Mr. O'Connell  would not press his Amendment.
 Mr. Morgan O'Connell  rose only to make one observation. The hon. and learned Member had called Mr. Steele a seditious maniac. He gave that assertion a most direct and unqualified contradiction.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the right hon. Gentleman was right in saying, that he ought to have said "Cabinet Minister" when he said "Privy Councillor." The right hon.
 626
 Mr. O'Connell : Hon. Members might cheer at such arguments; but they should remember, that it was a question of slavery or liberty with Ireland. Wherever outrages existed, the Lord Mayor could proclaim with the assistance of the Privy Council. But this clause did not at all relate to such situations. This clause applied to Clare, to Meath, to King's County, to Dublin—to various places where no outrages existed. He loved the horror of public meetings—the detestation of agitation—that had lately become fashionable in that House. He liked the maidenly modesty with which agitation was denounced by those very men who owed their seats to it. The very Ministers themselves, who joined in the cry—would they have been where they are but for the exertions of the Birmingham, London, and other Unions? It was objected that the effect of this Amendment was to unite the legislative with the Executive. But did the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman recollect who made Lord Ellenborough a Chief Justice and a Privy Councillor at the same time.
 Mr. O'Connell  Ay; but who made him a Cabinet Minister?
 Mr. O'connell  said, it was melancholy to hear a legislator about to legislate for Ireland in such deplorable ignorance of the true state of the case. Why, this part of the Bill did not relate to outrages, but to the suppression of meetings and associations.
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  said, that five of these petitions having been presented from the county he represented, he begged leave to support the prayer of them. They were numerously and respectably signed. They asserted that their county was in a state of tranquillity, notwithstanding it had been stated in that House that it was in a state of disturbance. He would appeal to his noble colleague opposite, whether, from what had been done on numerous trials, the law was not sufficient, as had been demonstrated, to put down those disturbances, if it were to be put vigorously into execution. One of the
 577
 Mr. Methuen  said, he was convinced that some legislative enactment was necessary for the tranquillization of Ireland. If his mind had not been made up before, he should have been convinced by the speech of the hon. Member on the floor (Mr. Finn). He hoped that Ministers intended to act by Ireland in the same spirit as they did for England, otherwise he would not give them his support towards passing that Bill into a law. However, he conceived that the law must be made paramount, and protection afforded both for life and property
 Mr. O'Ferrall  said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that this was not the time to discuss the preamble, and he recommended that the discussion be postponed. The recommendation of the Committee, of which so much had been said, had not been adopted by the right hon. Gentleman; if it had, there would now, he believed, have been peace in Ireland, He did not deny, that as those measures had not been adopted, other measures were now necessary; and he for one should be ready to agree to such measures as would strengthen the hands of the Government to put an end to the present atrocious system of outrage and murder. Let the Government, however, satisfy the House that those atrocities could not be put down without such
 616
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he and those by whom he was surrounded fully concurred in the sentiments, feelings, and opinions, manifested by the right hon. Gentleman upon this subject. There was no Gentleman on his side of the House, who did not feel every sentiment of horror and reprobation of such a crime. In this case there had certainly been an invasion of the rights of property, if the facts were really such as had been represented. But the blood of this man was yet fresh. Did this fact, which happened four days ago, justify the allegations in the preamble, which was framed long before? Why was this stratagem made use of—this fact brought forward, just as the House were entering on the threshold of the Bill? Was it not an
 610
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, the opposition to the preamble would be extremely reasonable at the proper time, but the postponement of it was only a matter of form. It must be considered hereafter. It was said, that the existing laws were sufficient for the suppression of disturbance in Ireland, while at the very same time it was admitted that some new laws were necessary for the pacification of that country. If new laws were considered necessary, then it was clear that the present laws were insufficient. He should vote against the Amendment. There was, however, one part of the Bill to which he was opposed. He did not approve of giving over any portion of his Majesty's subjects to a military tribunal.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  suggested, in order to facilitate the discussion of the subject, that the first Clause of the Bill should be divided, and the parts relating to public meetings and to Courts-martial, considered separately.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Shaw) had detailed a case of murder with great pathos. Now, he wished that some hon. Gentleman on the opposite side, would show what greater security against murder the Bill provided than existed at present.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  would only observe, that the petition did not support the Bill now before the House, but merely prayed that a bill might be passed which would put down the disturbances prevalent in Ireland. If he had supposed that the Bill would have that effect, it should have had his most hearty support; but so far from that being his opinion, he conceived that where one life was now sacrificed a hundred would be after the passing of that measure. The petition also prayed for redress of the grievances of Ireland; but he saw no such intention in the Bill, nor did he give his Majesty's Ministers any credit for what they had proposed. What was the paltry Church-cess which they proposed to abolish, compared to the great grievances under which the country laboured? He saw, by the papers of that morning, that a most respectable Roman Catholic gentleman had been most cruelly and barbarously murdered, not from any political cause, but merely because he distrained
 582
 Mr. Fitzgerald  presented several Petitions from Louth and King's County, against the measure of coercion for Ireland now before the House. The petitions contained a large number of signatures. They clearly proved, that as regarded the county of Louth, the measure brought forward by his Majesty's Ministers was perfectly unnecessary. The right hon. Secretary of State for Ireland had given the House a statement upon anonymous authority of the intimidation of a Juror in the county of Louth. Now, he could state, from his own knowledge of that county, and from experience gathered by constant attendance at the Assizes, that no such case of intimidation had occurred; he repeated, therefore, the statement of the petitioners, that there was no necessity whatever, as regarded the county of Louth, for the enactment of this tyrannical and oppressive measure. The statements made with regard to the backwardness of the gentry of that county to do their duty, he denied  in toto
 Mr. Fitzgerald  concurred in the observations of the hon. member for Colchester. He did not complain of the want of attention to himself individually; but he certainly had been anxious that some one of his Majesty's Ministers should be present to listen to the statement he had to make, particularly as he had not been able to obtain a hearing on a former occasion. If he had been allowed a hearing on that occasion, he should have stated that he had received a letter from one of the Deputy-lieutenants, informing him that Sir Patrick Bellew had written to him, the Deputy-lieutenant, to say that his part of the country had become perfectly tranquil. He mentioned this, as the right hon. Secretary had laid great stress upon a letter of Sir Patrick Bellew's. But what would the House think when he stated that that letter had been written five weeks previously to that written by the Deputy-lieutenant, and was for the specific purpose of being allowed to put the Peace Preservation Act in force, permission to do which had been granted and acted upon, with the best possible effect?
 Mr. Christmas  would vote against the Amendment. Agitation in Ireland had, within the last two years, been kept up to an enormous height, and for no good purpose. In his opinion, it was necessary to suppress the agitation, whatever means might be employed.
 Mr. Cobbett  was very unhappy in being obliged to differ from opinions so well ex-pressed; but so far from conjuring the people of Ireland not to run for gold, he conjured them to run for gold. It was truly said, by a wise man, that paper money was strength in the beginning, but weakness in the end. Gentlemen might say what they pleased about this matter, but they
 587 588
 Mr. Cobbett  would take care not to offend again. What he meant to say was, that in no state of things in which the Irish people could be placed, could they be worse off than they would be under the Bill. That was all he meant to say. Seeing the right hon. Under Secretary for the Home Department in his place, he begged to ask him whether he had not heard of certain societies or conspiracies on foot relative to paper money; he meant the Currency Clubs?
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the preamble of every Bill ought to be strictly true. He recollected a Bill with which he was connected having been brought before the Lords. The first thing their Lordships did, was to inquire whether the preamble of the Bill was true. He proved that it was not true, or rather he threw it on the opposite party to show that it was true. This could not be done, and their Lordships proceeded no further in the business. He had examined the preamble of this Bill, and in his opinion, every word contained in it was false. There was no evidence to prove the allegation, or to justify them in taking away the protection
 603
 Mr. Cobbett , as he had been personally alluded to, begged to observe, that he had never been a party to an understanding of the description referred to by the hon. Member. The proposition that he had put forward to the House was, that the petitions should be read aloud, and that the whole of them should be printed at full length, and that, upon such course being adopted, he would abstain from saying a word on any petition he had to present. With respect to the time which he had occupied in the presentation of petitions the other day, the hon. Member had made a little mistake, as he did not entertain the House more than thirty-five minutes. He hailed with great pleasure the presentation of a petition of this sort
 574
 Mr. Dugdale  had been requested to support the prayer of the petition, presented to the House by his colleague, which he did with pleasure. When the House found a petition of that kind come from a town like Birmingham, signed by all the Magistrates, the high and low bailiffs, and 1,400 of the most respectable inhabitants, it surely might be received as an answer to the often-repeated assertion, that the people of England were wholly against this Bill.
 Mr. Finn  said, that nothing could prove so much the ignorance with which the legislative measures connected with Ireland were passed in that House, as the sentiments expressed by the hon. Baronet, when he said, that he and the Members that acted with him, were the people that had raised the storm, and that it was in their power at once to allay it. The people of Ireland would entertain their opinions and remain in their present excited state, so long as they were oppressed as at present; they would do so, though he, and all that acted with him, changed their opinions to-morrow. If they were to
 581 s d
 Mr. Finn  said, there was one observation, that respecting the run now occurring for gold in Ireland, on which he wished to say a word. When reform was wanted in this country, he would not say whether it was wisely done or not, but the fact was, that placards were stuck up in the City, saying: "If you want to slop the Duke, go for gold." People in Ireland had taken the hint, and thought that if they wanted to stop the Ministers they must go for gold. This might be unwise, and might be the effect of mere desperation; but it showed the feelings which had been already introduced in the country by this Bill. Self-interest and advantage were forgotten, and in their desperation men ruined themselves in order to check the fatal course of his Majesty's Ministers. This was only a foretaste of the dreadful results of this measure, which his Majesty's Ministers could not, he was sure, have calculated upon when they brought it in. Whilst speaking upon this subject, he would remind the House of a difference which existed between this country and England. In England no notes were allowed to circulate under five pounds in value, and the same law ought to be established in Ireland; for as long as they
 586
 Mr. Finn  presented three Petitions from parishes in Kilkenny, to the same effect. Upon only one of them would he detain the House. He considered it to be of very great importance, as it contradicted one of the facts which had been so often relied on to justify this coercive measure. The petitioners denied that the Jurors upon the Carrickshaugh trials, who had voted for conviction, had been obliged to fly the country, and stated, that five of them were still living in their own houses unmolested—that one had removed, on account of pecuniary embarrassments, and one for causes not known. He took that opportunity of saying, that he was happy to observe, that upon this question, the people of England differed from their Representatives, for they had not sent up any petitions but what were against the Bill. Their conduct, at least, had
 575
 Mr. Finn  blamed the Magistrates of
 618
 Mr. Peter : But the former are likely to be the consequences of the latter. He must appeal to the House, whether he had given the hon. and learned member for Dublin any just cause for the language which he had employed towards him.
 Mr. Peter  said, that the Lord-lieutenant was responsible for the manner in which he
 623
 The Speaker  said, an hon. Member might give what advice he pleased, but it was not allowed in the House to ascribe motives to any hon. Member; and had any hon. Member put that interpretation upon the speech of the hon. member for Oldham, which it appeared, he wished this House and the country to put upon it, it would have been most disorderly. When, therefore, the hon. Member himself makes running for gold synonymous with producing confusion, it is clear, uttering that in this House is most disorderly, and the hon. Member is lawyer enough to know, that what he has now uttered, if uttered out of the House, would have subjected him to the operation of the law.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  presented a petition from the Magistrates of the county of Warwick, acting in the Birmingham division; and from the bankers, merchants, and numerous tradespeople and shopkeepers, all rate-payers of Birmingham, regretting, and expressing their heartfelt sorrow that some measures were necessary for the purpose of putting an end to the disturbances that existed in Ireland, and stating their reliance upon the House to adopt such measures as would really redress the grievances under which that country laboured, and by which they would secure to every class of his Majesty's subjects, good government, and by which they would have securities for their persons, and protection for their properly. He had
 579 580
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  had only said, that he agreed to the principle of the Bill—not to its details. If he thought that by sup porting Ministers he was imposing chains upon others, he should be the last in the world to vote along with them; but the idea of liberty which he entertained differed widely from that entertained by the right hon. Member opposite. He did not call that liberty, where a man claimed freedom of action for himself, but denied it to every other person. He considered true liberty to be the right of every man to do what he felt to be agreeable or advantageous to himself, without infringing on the happiness or advantage of others.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  said, that the effect of a run for gold in Ireland would be most injurious to the poorer classes, and it was to be regretted, that the leading men among those who opposed the Bill now before the House did not rise in that House, and conjure the people of Ireland not to be deluded by the cry of running for gold. Such a cry could not produce any good, but would be most of all injurious to the poor men who had put by money in the Savings' Banks, who would draw it out and must spend a part of it—perhaps a part they could hardly ever replace—before their confidence was restored.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  opposed the Amendment. He had sufficient confidence in his Majesty's Ministers to indulge in the hope that they would not pass the Bill without some qualifications.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  opposed the Amendment. It would be liable, he was afraid, to bring disturbance into counties previously peaceful, by restraining the Government from putting down dangerous associations. It would, therefore, be an evil, as it would compel the Government to have recourse to severer measures than the mere suppression of a dangerous association.
 Lord Althorp  thought it unreasonable in the hon. and learned Member to ask the Chairman to report progress before the clause under consideration was disposed of.
 Lord Althorp  said, that a good deal of confusion had been produced by the different subjects and questions introduced to the notice of the House on this occasion. With respect to the answers of his right hon. friend to the member for Wicklow, his right hon. friend did not mean to apply the case quoted to the particular part of the preamble referred to by the learned member for Tipperary. The hon. member for Wicklow had asked his right hon. friend for some proof of a conspiracy or attack against rights of property, other than those involved in a resistance to tithes; and, in reply to the demand, his right hon. friend stated a case of murder which had no connexion with tithes, but which did involve an attack on another description of property. Doubtless, the preamble was not founded on this case, which had happened since the framing of the Act; but Ministers did found the preamble on the general state of the country—minder being referred to among other crimes—and this recent instance of murder showed that the slate of the country remained the same as it was when the Bill was framed; consequently, that the provisions then called for were still necessary. He had stated before, and he now stated again, that it was not the intention of Ministers to use the Bill for the collection
 611
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill.
 Lord Althorp  had no objection, as he thought the course would be convenient.
 Lord Althorp , in moving, that the Speaker leave the Chair, wished to state, that, in consequence of the Representations to Ministers, by those who were generally disposed to support the Bill, it had been determined to make two alterations. The first related to Courts-martial. Ministers were ready to provide that no person should be permitted to sit upon a Court-martial under the rank of captain in the army. They were also prepared to concede that, when the number of members of a Court-martial should not exceed five, the verdict must be unanimous; when the number should not exceed seven, at least five must concur in the decision; and where it exceeded seven, seven Members must agree before punishment could be inflicted. The second alteration related to domiciliary visits, regarding which
 590
 Lord Althorp  replied in the negative; adding, that the smaller the number of Judges, the greater was the necessity for unanimity.
 Lord Althorp  was not prepared to give an answer, at that moment.
 Lord Althorp  was not quite sure whether, according to the ordinary practice of the House, the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite justified in moving an instruction to the Committee of the nature proposed. He had always heard it laid down as a rule of that House, that instructions to a Committee, not giving that Committee power beyond what it possessed before, could not be moved. The Committee already possessed the power of altering the clause to which the hon. and learned Member had referred, and, therefore, his instruction, to say the least, was unnecessary. It appeared to him, that the moving of such an instruction could only be intended for the purpose of delay. The hon. and learned Gentleman had told the House, that he wished to take its opinion upon three great constitutional questions—first, upon the impropriety of abolishing the right of petition; next, upon the impropriety of abolishing the Trial by Jury; and, thirdly, upon the impolicy of suspending the  Habeas Corpus 597 598 599
 Lord Althorp  opposed the Amendment. Instead of operating to mitigate the evils of Ireland, it was calculated to aggravate them, He admitted that it was a great evil to go beyond the Constitution, and trust such arbitrary powers in the hands of an individual. But what were they to do? If they were to attempt to define what should be an illegal meeting, they might use all the ingenuity possible, but there would still be counter ingenuity sufficient to enable the parties against whom it was directed to evade it. They were, indeed, but little aware of the difficulty of defining an illegal meeting so as to prevent evasion; and the only alternative which they had left was to give the Lord-lieutenant the power of deciding what meetings were illegal, and to prohibit them accordingly. The only experiment which had ever been made of this last course had succeeded, and the only question was, whether they should confer this power upon the Lord-lieutenant, or legislate at the risk of evasion and defeat?
 Viscount Palmerston  had never heard more uncalled-for observations than those made by the hon. member for Middlesex on his right hon. friend. So far from throwing out anything in anger, he had only come to the defence of an hon. Member from the uncalled-for attack of the hon. and learned Gentlemen. The hon. member for Middlesex thought it improper to advert to anything but what had taken place in that House, and that they should abstract their attention from anything which had occurred in Ireland. That might be a convenient doctrine for the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and for the hon. member for Middlesex; but the House, in discussing Irish subjects, would not be likely to comply with the recommendation of the hon. Member, He hoped the House would now direct its attention to the clause under consideration, and that there would be no other attempt made to add fuel to the fire.
 Mr. Strickland  wished to declare, that he also gave them his support, and that he did it with the most perfect satisfaction. He hoped the Bill would not be delayed, and it was on account of the fear of delay that he should oppose the appointment of a Commission. Such would certainly be the effect of that Commission, if it was not actually its object. He could not conceive that any person required proof of the fact, that children of a tender age were not fit to stand for fifteen hours in the day upon machinery worked by steam.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that it was a question of humanity and religion that ought not to be neglected. The objection to the present system was, that it not only destroyed the health of the children, but prevented them from having any religious education: that the only way in which they obtained that education, was by having slips of Catechism put into their sleeves when they went to work in the morning, and he regretted to add, that he
 642
 Mr. Wynn  was in favour of the appointment of another Commission. Evidence had been heard only on one side, and it was only fair that the other should have an opportunity of rebutting the charges against them. But, as the Bill should not be delayed beyond the present Session, he thought an instruction should be given to the Commission to make all due haste.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the appointment of nominees was for the express purpose of excluding Counsel; and when the accused had a Gentleman of such ability as the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last (Mr. Nicholl) for their nominee, it was quite certain that their interests would not suffer from the absence of Counsel. For his own part he would never throw the shield of his humble abilities over corruption. The delay which would be produced by permitting Counsel to exercise their ingenuity in cross-examination would be ruinous to those who had only justice in view. In giving nominees every thing necessary for justice was done, and he therefore trusted that the House would not accede to the Motion.
 Mr. Wynn  thought it was a great mistake to conclude, that, because there were nominees there should be no Counsel. The nominees could not, and ought not, to act as Counsel; for, when placed on the Committee, they were judges, and were bound to act in that character. The hon. and learned Member who spoke last, said they ought not to throw their shield over corruption. Now he (Mr. Wynn)
 645
 Colonel Williams  thought there could be no necessity for the ingenuity of lawyers in this case, the delinquency of the accused was so flagrant.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said it was quite obvious, that some how or other a considerable degree of party spirit had found its way into this Committee more than was usually to be found in Committees in that House. With great respect for the Members of the Committee, he was bound to say, too, that the choice had fallen, by mere accident, no doubt, on very young and inexperienced Members of that House. This being the case, he thought" it desirable that they should be assisted by the knowledge and experience of Counsel; and if the noble Lord (Lord Sandon) called for a division on this Motion, it should have his support.
 An Hon. Member  said, that he objected to the appointment of Counsel, because he never saw a lawyer enter into any business which he abridged; and as he was one of the Committee, he could not but observe that, in justice to them all, it was but fair for the House to order the Ballot to be gone over again, upon this new understanding.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to ask the noble Lord whether some time could not be set apart for the reception of petitions against the Irish Coercion Bill, before it proceeded any further in Committee? He understood there were a vast number of petitions yet to be presented against that Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, perhaps the noble Lord would consent that petitions against the Irish Bill should be presented at a late hour on that evening.
 Mr. Wynn  said, before the House entered into any discussion upon the Bill itself, he was anxious to state the reasons which induced him to think that the Ministers had adopted an irregular course of proceeding-, in their mode of introducing it. When this Bill was first introduced into Parliament, it was doubted whether, as it related to a great change in the religions establishment of the Church of Ireland, it ought not to have originated in a Committee of the whole House. By this Bill it was proposed, to put an end to nearly one half of the bishoprics of Ireland, and to suspend all appointments to certain benefices in that country. Whether an alteration of so great an extent, did not bring this Bill within the standing order of the House on matters of religion, he would not then stay to examine; he would only say, that in his opinion. Ministers would have acted more prudently, had they conformed to the usual practice in cases of this sort, instead of originating a new precedent upon it. They had however transgressed another rule of ancient standing of still more importance, by which it was provided, that no bill imposing a tax upon the community, should originate, except in a Committee of the whole House. On the 18th of February, 1667, the House resolved, and the resolution had since become a standing order,—"That if any motion be made in the House for any public aid or charge upon the people, the consideration and debate
 648 l l 649 pro tanto
 Mr. Stanley  said, the right hon. Baronet had, on a former night, suggested a similar course to that he had now recommended. He (Mr. Stanley) had not such a great knowledge of the rules and orders of the House as the right hon. Members who had recently spoken possessed, and he had not looked into precedents as they had done; it struck him, however, that the whole of the argument turned on the fact, whether the general interest, or a local interest only was affected by this measure. The right hon. Baronet had quoted a resolution of the 29th of March, 1707, providing, that "The House would not proceed on any petition, motion, or bill, for granting any money, or releasing or compounding any sum of money owing to the Crown, but in a Committee of the whole House." Now, he read that resolution, and the practice of the House, as arising from a constitutional jealousy of the power of the Crown. It had reference to money advanced by that House to the Crown. He would not attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman opposite into the precedents which he had quoted, but there was a case to which he would call the attention of the House, because it appeared to him to go on all-fours with the present—he alluded to the Bill for the regulation of the salaries of curates. By that Bill certain reductions were made in the salaries of incumbents, in order to enlarge the incomes of a portion of the clergy who were inadequately provided for. That Bill was not submitted, in the way proposed, to a Committee of the whole House, nor did it originate in that House at all, but in the House of Lords. That Bill consolidated the law for enforcing persons not residing on their benefices to support and maintain stipendiary curates in England and Wales. [ Sir Robert Peel: 654
 Mr. O'Connell  said, they had much business to do, and they ought to put an end to this discussion. It was most clear to him that this was a tax. That was his opinion. In the preamble of the Act this was called neither more nor less than an annual tax. He never felt himself abashed in performing a public duty; but if ever there was a case where he regretted to do his duty it was the present. He did not want to postpone this Bill, but he wanted to know how this blunder had been committed. It was set forth in the Bill, that first fruits in Ireland should be repealed, and that there should be "the substitution of an annual tax in lieu thereof." This stared them in the face in the very first line; and when that was so, how could they go on with the second reading of this Bill without first submitting it to a Committee of the whole House? How did they happen to overlook such a circumstance as this? What, he asked, was this but an annual tax? Here was a certain portion of the property of a certain class of the King's subjects which was to be taken every year, and at all events. Now, if that was not a tax, he really did not know what a tax was. What could Gentlemen opposite call it but a tax, which they had called it in the Bill? With respect to the Curates' Bill, it was a very different matter. The Act of Parliament said, if the curate be not paid so much, the incumbent shall be compelled to make it up. This was not a tax, but it was a penalty for not performing a duty. What, he asked, would future Parliaments say, if, after debate and deliberation in that House, it should be determined that this was not a tax? Why, they might carry the precedent to the most alarming extent. In his opinion the Bill ought not to proceed now, because the proposition was a plain and a clear one. He, therefore, could not vote against the Gentlemen who cheered him, without violating that which he would never violate—a great constitutional principle.
 Mr. Pryme  said, there were several descriptions of bills connected with money which did not originate in a Committee of the whole House. A turnpike bill or a drainage bill was a tax bill, yet it was never known that such measures originated in a Committee of the whole House.
 Mr. O'Connell  would recommend the noble Lord to form two Bills out of one. That part of the present Bill which related to the lessees of Bishops' lands, would meet with great difficulties in its details; and, in the present state of Ireland, persons with a command of capital would have great advantages, while persons of straightened means would be exposed to great disadvantages in purchasing this property. He would recommend, therefore, that the Bill should be divided into two parts, one part should be referred to the Committee, and the House should proceed with the other.
 Mr. Stanley  was sensible that the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman had much to recommend it, but there was one circumstance which rendered the proposed separation a question of much difficulty. The part relating to Bishops' leases hung so much together with the other that it would be almost impossible to run the risk of passing one and of not passing the other. One of the leading principles of the Bill was, to suppress ten Bishops' sees, and place their revenues in the hands of a permanent board. At present the possessors of Bishops' leases derived many of their advantages from the apprehension which the Bishops had to run their lives against the leases which induced them to renew these leases every year for a reasonable fine. But of course no motives of that kind could exist in an undying board. There was a necessity
 665
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted the existence of the difficulty pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman but it might be obviated by ascertaining the average fines paid by the lessees of Bishops' lands and compelling the Board to renew the leases at a similar rate, or to make the lease perpetual on the term, regulated by that average proposed by the noble Lord. Allow him then to say one word of himself. He had been represented in the newspapers, both of England and Ireland, as giving his support to this Bill because he possessed property of this description. He had not, however, a single acre of land in his possession held on lease from the Church, and was not in any way, either directly or indirectly, interested in Church lands.
 Mr. Baring  thought the impossibility of now getting anything like a proper value for the Church lands in Ireland, owing to the state of the country, should they be disposed of, ought to be taken into consideration. He suggested, therefore, that the average fines heretofore obtained by the Bishops should be ascertained, and that the Board should be compelled to dispose of the lands at that rate.
 Mr. Stanley  said, there would be a considerable loss if the Board should be bound not to ask a higher sum than the average of that paid to the Bishops. There was a considerable difference in the value of a lease for twenty-one years and for perpetuity, and if the hon. Members advice were followed, the present holders of Bishops' leases would obtain all the advantage of the perpetual lease without paying for it. The object of the Ministers was to make the tenants pay for that advantage, and the surplus thus obtained would be placed in the hands of the Board to be disposed of as Parliament might please.
 Lord Ashley  was of opinion, that the House ought not to be stopped from legislating on the subject, merely because ten or twelve gentlemen fancied themselves aggrieved by the tendency of the matter already known to the public. He knew that they had had an opportunity of considering the provisions of the Bill he had himself introduced, for he had sent 100 copies of it into the country to those most interested in the matter. The only effect of a Commission would be to delay the Bill, so that it would be lost this Session as it had been lost in the last.
 Lord Ashley presented a Petition from the Cotton Spinners of Glasgow, in favour of the Ten Hours' Labour Bill. Another, to the same effect, from the Operatives of Chorley; a third, from the Churchwardens and other Inhabitants of the Ward of Bishopsgate; and, a fourth, from Little Bolton and neighbouring places in Lancashire. The latter prayed, that the House would not grant the Commission of Inquiry upon the Factories' Bill, as such a proceeding would only tend to delay the measure. He cordially supported the prayer of all these petitions.
 Lord John Russell said, that Gentle-
 658 d 659
 Lord John Russell  suggested, that when there were a number of petitions on one subject, and with the same prayer, they might all be brought up together, and only one question be put on them, namely that they be laid upon the Table.
 Lord John Russell  took that opportunity to controvert the opinion of the hon. member for Middlesex as to bills with money clauses being read a second time,
 663
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the question bad been treated only with reference to the Church and the holders of the leases, but there was a third party who ought to be considered—the people. It was of great
 666 l l l l
 Mr. Harvey  said, that it would greatly expedite the inquiry, if Counsel were allowed, as their habits of examining evidence would enable them, to despatch ten witnesses, whilst the ordinary mode of examination by a Committee would enable it to hear only one. He therefore felt it right to sanction the Motion of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he thought he could at once meet the Solicitor General upon the ground that he had taken to defend the propriety of the present mode of proceeding. The Solicitor General said, it was imposing no tax upon the people. Now, as to its being a tax, what were the words of the 14th section? That the Commissioners should make a valuation of all livings, and "levy thereout, from and after the commencement of this Act, for ever, a yearly tax." Then surely the hon. and learned Gentleman would not deny, that the clergy of the Established Church were a portion of the people not disentitled to that
 656 l l 657
 Mr. Robinson  did not suppose the hon. Member wished to delay, unnecessarily, any measure of this sort, or that he would move for a Commission merely for the purpose of effecting that object, but there could be no doubt that, in fact, such would be the result of the appointment of a Commission. He did not know how any man, aware of the circumstances already disclosed upon the evidence, could think for a moment, that the legislation proposed ought not to be adopted. There was no charge of cruelty against the masters—the charge was against the cruelty of the system, and it was the system that the noble Lord's Bill went to remedy. He thought, that the House were bound to protect these poor children from the effects of the system, against which they could not protect themselves.
 Mr. Wilbraham  thought, that a Commission ought to be granted, and that it might be so managed as not to prevent the Bill passing this Session.
 Mr. Goulburn  was of opinion, that great advantage would accrue by affording time for deliberation on a point which appeared to him, if the objection of his right hon. friend were well founded, to be one of very great importance. If this were a tax on the people, it was important to prevent the House from levying it without adopting those safeguards which were hitherto deemed indispensable. If there were only a doubt on the subject, it was of importance to give it due consideration, and thus to avoid the evil consequences that might arise from a wrong and hasty decision. The right hon. Secretary had not proved the least analogy between the Curates' Bill and the Bill then before the House. The Curates' Bill was in the nature of a penalty on those individuals who forbore to do that which the law called on them to do. In that case, it was a penalty on the non-residence of the incumbent, who was liable to the payment of the several penalties which the Act stated, but which did not touch the resident clergyman. But how stood the case in the present instance? There was no possibility for any clergyman, resident or non-resident, to escape from the tax. The Bill imposed upon every clergyman in Ireland a tax, varying from five to fifteen per cent. It was a tax levied by that House, paid to the Commissioners of the Crown, and applied to a
 655
 Mr. Warburton  thought it but fair to all parties that a Commission should be granted. Means might be taken to prevent its delaying the Bill; and of this he was sure, that the more evidence was taken, the more would the necessity for the Bill be shown.
 Mr. Benett  thought Counsel unnecessary, as nominees had been appointed. Admitting Counsel to cross-examine witnesses would produce expense and delay, and probably throw the ulterior measures which might be necessary over to another Session of Parliament. He had already devoted himself for three years to the investigation of this question, and he must oppose every proceeding which he thought would lead to unnecessary delay.
 Mr. Nicholl  thought there was great reason for acceding to the Motion on this ground, that in truth and in fact there was already Counsel on the other side; so that if the House rejected the noble Lord's Motion, there would be Counsel for the prosecution and not for the defence. When he said that there was Counsel for the prosecution, what he meant was, that the hon. member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason), who was not a Member of the Committee, but who was a Barrister, sat behind the hon. member for Wilts (Mr. Benett), and suggested such questions as his legal skill and education enabled him to frame, in order to sustain the charge of bribery. This was giving an advantage to one side, which should be made up to the other by allowing Counsel. Some observations had been thrown out as to delay, but he thought the House could scarcely expect the investigation to close very soon, when he informed it that summonses were already sent out for above a hundred witnesses.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  assured the House, that he did not propose the appointment of a Commission with the view of delaying the Bill introduced by the noble Lord, but in order that the subject, on which the House were about to legislate, might be better understood, and, also, for the purpose of clearing the characters of the masters from those imputations which seemed to be cast upon them by the
 641
 Mr. Brotherton  did not consider the manufacturers to blame. The objection was solely against the system, but neither master nor workman could do anything without the aid of the law. In accounting for the present system of overworking children, various causes had been assigned by hon. Members, By some, it was ascribed to the taxes, by others, to the inhumanity of the parents of the children; but a great proportion of the supporters of the Ten Hours' Bill attributed it to the avarice and oppression of the masters. That it was not wholly ascribable to the taxes was evident; for when the taxes were not one-fourth of their present amount, children were employed a greater length of time in cotton-mills than at present. They ought not to throw the blame entirely on the parents, for thousands, and tens of thousands, of them had petitioned Parliament to restrict the hours of labour in cotton-mills. That the masters were not all of them cruel and oppressive, he could take upon himself to assert; for when the Bill, brought into this House by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster, in 1831, was under consideration, he obtained signatures of about forty of the largest proprietors of mills in Manchester and the neighbourhood, to a petition in favour of a reduction of the hours of labour. There must, then, be something in the system which neither masters nor parents nor children could resist, unless they were aided by the law. He did not blame the masters, generally—it was the system he complained of; and he could not see that any useful purpose could be
 643
 Mr. Hume  said, that he certainly could not look upon the imposition proposed to be made by this Bill in any other light than that of a new tax, like the tax upon pensions, or any other tax; and he had, therefore, no hesitation in saying, that such an imposition ought to originate in a Resolution of a Committee of the whole House. He repeated, that he considered the tax proposed to be imposed by this
 662
 Mr. Hume  repeated that where the money clauses did not constitute the essence of the Bill, the course he had referred to was the one usually pursued.
 Mr. Hume  thought that the first principle put forth in the preamble of the Bill, and to which all the other principles in it were subordinate, regarded the reduction in the number of the Bishops in Ireland. He considered that to be the first and most important object of the Bill. He looked upon the principle of the Bill to be the reform of the Church of Ireland, beginning with a reduction of the number of Bishops there; and he regarded the part that related to Church cess as only incidental to the main object of the Bill.
 Mr. Hume : the preamble of the Bill was, it was well known, always postponed.
 Mr. Wason  opposed the Motion, on the ground that it would lead to great delay and increased expense, as the funds of the Corporation of Liverpool would be misapplied in the defence of the persons charged with bribery. If Counsel were admitted,
 644
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the measure was one of importance, and deserved the best and earliest consideration of the House. He trusted the noble Lord would press the Bill through the House. While they were talking of Commissions the children were perishing.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that this was a case of great difficulty, and he did not underrate it when he declared, that it was well worthy the attention of the House. He wished to adhere to the utmost extent to the ancient and well-known usages of Parliament. He should rather be inclined to put up with any partial inconvenience than to break through the rules and orders which Parliament had long established. He would state the case as he understood it, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair would favour the House with his opinion, because, he believed, the House relied on his knowledge of the subject, and not only on his knowledge of the orders and usages of the House, but on his well-known and often manifested impartiality. The House, he was sure, would be entirely satisfied, and the minds of Gentlemen would be set at rest, when he gave his solemn and deliberate judgment. An Order on their Journals directed that where taxes were to be granted to the Crown a Committee of the whole House should be appointed to inquire into the subject. This was done with a twofold view—for the protection of the people, and to avoid, if possible, any jealousy of the Crown. If he was to construe the Order strictly, nothing but taxes to be raised for the Crown was contemplated by it. If he looked to the letter of the Order it related only to taxes imposed on the people that would ultimately be placed at the disposition of the King. When he considered the precedents cited by the right hon. Secretary, they left him in a state of doubt. One of the precedents was that of Westminster. In that case certain stamp duties were included in the bill. Now, as he had not learned whether those stamp duties were independent of the Crown—and, he confessed, he knew no instance where such duties were not for the Crown—then he scarce knew how to decide as to the weight of the pre-
 660 inter se
 Mr. Cobbett  approved of that provided the petitions were read at length and printed.
 The Speaker  said, that, having been called upon by the hon. and learned Member to state to the House what were his views upon the point now before it, he begged to say, that while he was ready to admit, with all those hon. Members who had spoken upon the subject, that it was one beset with difficulties, it appeared to him that those difficulties arose out of the meaning, intent, purport, object, and character of the Bill, rather than out of the interpretation to be put upon the rules and forms of that House, with regard to which there could be little or no difference. He took it, that the question now before the House was, whether one of the objects of this Bill was the imposition of a tax, or not; and, in order to ascertain that point, it was necessary that they should come to a clear understanding as to what the meaning of a tax was. Now, as he took it, according to the
 661
 The Speaker  observed, that the principle to which the hon. Member had alluded had not the precedence in the preamble of the Bill. The preamble in the first instance stated, that "whereas it was expedient to make provision for the abolition of first fruits in Ireland, and the substitution of an annual tax in lieu thereof." Its second object was announced in the following words: "That it was expedient that compulsory assessments by exclusive vestries should be abolished." And then came its third object, "That the number of Bishops in Ireland might be conveniently diminished," &c.
 The Speaker  said, that the only question was, whether the part of the Bill in question did not constitute the essence of it. It was quite true that Bills were often read a second time, and then that money clauses, such as clauses granting salaries, were afterwards passed by a resolution of a Committee of the whole House, and incorporated in such Bills; but that was in the case where it was not the sole intention and object of the Bill to grant salaries, but where such salaries were granted in aid of the objects of the Bill. Here, however, the question was, whether, from the beginning to the end of it, the whole object of the Bill was not the imposition of a tax.
 The Solicitor General  said, the question was, whether this were a bill for imposing a tax on the people, or for granting a revenue to the Crown? If it were either one or the other, then it would be necessary to submit it to a Committee of the whole House; but if it were merely a measure for regulating the property of the Church, for the benefit of the Church, then he conceived that such a proceeding was not called for. In that case he did not think there would be any violation of the orders of the House if they went on with the second reading. The right hon. Baronet had quoted the case of the Westminster Police Bill; but it was mixed up with a provision for a stamp duty, and he knew of no such duty that was not levied for the Crown. The case was not, therefore, in point. The right hon. Baronet had also adverted to the Glasgow case, but about it no question had arisen, and, therefore, he thought it carried little weight with it. The proceedings of the Committee of Supply and of Ways and Means with respect to Mr. Campbell's claim, were of so different a nature from the present measure that the Glasgow case did not apply to it. With respect to the Curates' Bill, he contended that it was a tax on every incumbent in England, according to the annual amount of his living. If it were 1,000 l
 The Solicitor General  said, that he was glad to hear what had fallen from the noble Lord in favour of Counsel being allowed; because he could with great sincerity avow it to be his opinion, that, instead of delaying the inquiry, the aid of Counsel would operate by way of despatch. It ought, however, to be a regulation of the Committee, that no speeches should be allowed, but that the Counsel should simply direct their attention to the examination of witnesses.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that tills Bill most decidedly imposed a tax on the Irish clergy. He relied on that word, and he would force it into discussion. He saw clearly that it was a tax on one part of the community; and he contended, that no portion of the King's subjects should be deprived of the benefit of any of the forms of that House.
 Sir Robert Peel  was only stating the case with greater limitations than the noble Lord. In the first place, the noble Lord stated that it was a tax for the Church, and not for a general public concern; and, second, that the House might proceed to the second reading of the Bill, and before going into Committee upon it, that we might refer the money clauses to a Committee of the whole House. According to the practice of the House, the Bill ought not to proceed to a second reading without those clauses being submitted to the preliminary ordeal of a Committee of the whole House, by whom they would be affirmed, modified, or rejected. On the 29th of March, 1707, it was resolved—' That this House will not proceed on any petition, motion, or bill, for granting any money, or releasing, or compounding, any sum of money owing to the Crown, but after examination by a Committee of the whole House, and the same is declared to be a Standing Order of the House.' On the 27th of June, 1735, a bill was introduced for establishing a police force in Westminster, which was found to contain clauses for a stamp duty, and other taxes. No motion having been made to submit it to a Committee of the whole House, it was thought advisable the next day, said Mr. Hatsell, to withdraw that Bill, and to proceed in the regular course. That was merely a local tax, providing for the police of the city of Westminster, and because there was not a preliminary Committee of the whole House, the Bill was withdrawn. Was not that a strong case? In that instance it was a local tax which was proposed for a local object; and yet the neglect of the preliminary proceeding caused the withdrawal of the Bill. Mr. Hatsell said, upon that principle the House laid it down for a rule as long ago as the year 1667—' That no motion or proposition for an aid or charge upon the people should be "presently" entered upon; that by this means, due and sufficient notice of the subject should be given; and that the Members should not be surprised into a vote, but might come pre-
 652 l l 653
 Sir Robert Peel  never felt more perfectly satisfied of the validity of any objection, than he did at the present moment, of the validity of the objection which had been taken by his right hon. friend; and, although the expression might be a bold one, he felt certain that he could convince the noble Lord of the actual necessity, conformably with the rules of the House, of not proceeding without previously discussing the clauses referred to, in a Committee of the whole House. The noble Lord had stated very fairly, that the authority of his right hon. friend had great weight, but that he was not prepared to accede to it; and the two main grounds upon which he founded his objection were these—first, that it was not a general tax on all his Majesty's subjects, that it was a tax on the clergy, and that the purposes to which it is to be applied, were local rather than general.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in presenting
 647
 Sir Robert Peel  would suggest to the noble Lord whether it would not be better at once to appoint a Select Committee to search into precedents upon this point, and to make a report to the House, either to-morrow night or upon Monday next, on the subject, in order to direct the judgement of the House with regard to it. If such a course should not be adopted, the House would come to the decision of the question upon Monday not one whit better prepared than it was at present.
 Lord Althorp  moved that a Select Committee be appointed to examine precedents and to report their opinion whether the "Bill to alter and amend the laws relating to the temporalities of the Church of Ireland" should by the rules and orders of the House have originated with a Committee of the whole House.
 Lord Althorp  had no objection to that proposition.
 Lord Althorp  thought the request of the hon. and learned Gentleman was not quite reasonable. Nine hours in the week were already devoted exclusively to receiving petitions, which would be ample for the purpose, if Gentlemen would not make such long speeches whenever they presented a petition.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of the Church Reform Bill (Ireland).
 Lord Althorp  doubted very much, if Counsel were allowed, whether it would not be for their interest to delay the proceedings before the Committee, and thus protract the inquiry to an unnecessary length. If, however, any regulation could be adopted, by which unnecessary delay
 646
 Lord Althorp  had said, that a certain
 651
 Lord Althorp  said, that on a question of this nature, which came upon him also by surprise, he felt great unwillingness to state his own opinion. It did, however, appear to him that the rule which had been referred to always applied to cases where the tax was clearly laid on the subject for the public service generally. A bill had been passed something in the nature of the present, by which incumbents were compelled to pay larger sums to their curates. The money clauses of that Bill were not referred to a Committee of the whole House, and he never heard any complaint made on that account. It was most important, certainly, that they should not interfere with any regulation of Parliament having, for its object, the protection of the subject; but he did not think that the present was one of the cases which came within the rule. The word "tax," it was true was made use of in the preamble of the Bill; the tax there spoken of was not, however, for the general benefit of the State, it was entirely applicable to a particular purpose. The tax so mentioned, was specifically for "the building, rebuilding, and repairing of churches, and
 650
 Lord Althorp  said, that after the discussion which had taken place, he would if the House agreed to it, be ready to postpone the second reading of this Bill to a future day. The question having been raised as to whether this Bill did not impose a tax, and whether, therefore, it should not originate with a Committee of the whole House, he should be extremely sorry that such an important constitutional question should be determined without the fullest and most deliberate consideration, and, whatever might be his own opinion on the subject, after so much doubt had been thrown upon it, he should be sorry to call upon the House to come to a decision upon the point at once. He was therefore ready to defer the Order of the Day for the second reading of this Bill until some day next week, in order that the House might in the meanwhile have time to consider the question that had been raised.
 Lord Althorp  said, as the sense of the House appeared to be against a Commission, he hoped the hon. Member would postpone moving for it.
 Lord Sandon  regretted very much that he could not follow the example which had just been set him by other hon. Members, and postpone his Motion; but its nature was such that it would not admit of postponement, and it would be unnecessary for him to enter at any length into the grounds upon which he called upon the House to accede to it. His Motion was, "that the Corporation of Liverpool should have leave, by their Counsel and Agents, to examine witnesses before the Committee on election transactions at Liverpool." The purpose of this Motion was to enable the parties whose rights and privileges were involved in this investigation, to have the benefit of the skill and practical experience of Counsel in cross-examining witnesses. He could not conceive upon what grounds the Motion could be objected to; but, he might state, if there should be any objection, that the Corporation were willing that their interests in the Committee should be confided to a single Counsel.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to propose an Amendment on the clause. As it stood at present, it enabled the Lord Lieutenant, by order, to prohibit or suppress any assembly deemed by him dangerous to the public safety, and inconsistent with the administration of the law, and to declare every such prohibited meeting an unlawful assembly. He would propose, as an amendment, that it should not be lawful to prohibit or suppress any meeting peaceably convened and conducted, which met for the exclusive purpose of petitioning the King or Parliament for the redress of  bonâ fide bonâ fide 669 bonâ fide
 Mr. O. Connell  asked the House, whether some limit ought not to be put to the despotism of the clause? Ought there not to be the limit of complaint? He knew not when the power of complaint was more necessary than when despotism was established.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was ready to adopt the suggestion of his hon. friend the member for Meath (Mr. Grattan), and had no objection to add to his amendment that three days' notice should be given of such meeting to the Lord-lieutenant, if held in the county of Dublin, or ten days' notice to the Lord-lieutenant of the county, or his deputy, if the meeting was to be held in any other county. The Committee would understand, therefore, that, according to his amendment as it was now shaped, to render a meeting lawful, it must be peaceable—held for the  bona fide 672 bona fide
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member, like his Majesty's Ministers, had of late contracted a mighty dislike to Political Unions. He remembered when those Unions were defended by the right hon. Gentleman opposite; and the hon. Gentleman would probably live to be old enough, if this precedent were adopted, to see the liberties of England endangered:—190 petitions were presented this morning, against the Bill: he presented fifty himself in less than twenty minutes, an example worthy of being followed—190 petitions, signed by thousands and tens of thousands of English and Scotchmen, and by upwards of a million Irishmen, were this morning presented against the Bill—there was not one in favour of it. One of the mischiefs which rendered a domestic legislature the more necessary in Ireland was the want of sympathy which the leading newspapers evinced for her condition, and the shameful and barbarous manner in which they exaggerated every fact against her. When the principles of
 673 Habeas Corpus bonâ fide
 Mr. Pryme  said, that no man felt more than he did the injury which the agitation of the question of the Repeal of the Union had effected; but he could not see, that that was a sufficient reason for the suppression of meetings for the repeal of grievances. The question before the Committee simply was, whether the clause was necessary to the peace of Ireland.
 674
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think he could be suspected of any intention to sanction such a power.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that the impatience of the House should not prevent him from expressing his sentiments. He had been fourteen years in Parliament, but he had never witnessed such extraordinary exhibitions
 677 678
 Mr. Stanley  denied, that this clause could or would be perverted to any such unconstitutional object as an infringement on the right of petitioning, by preventing legitimate meetings. The right hon. Gentleman was perfectly right in stating, that a clause in the Proclamation Act, similar to the present, had not been used to suppress petitioning, and if such were the case with respect to an act passed by a Tory Government; a slight stretch of the right hon. Member's powers of reasoning might have led him to the conclusion that the result would not be different in the present case. But although it was not meant to infringe the right of petitioning by this measure, it was essential in the present state of the country that the Lord Lieutenant should be constituted, in the first instance, the Judge of what was likely to be  bonâ fide bonâ fide 679 bonâ fide
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the right of petitioning was sacred; as to what the right hon. Secretary had said about no meetings for legitimate petitions having been interfered with under the power of the former clause, the reason was, that no one had ever attempted to get up a petition at that time; there was good care taken to prevent any such thing being attempted.
 Mr. Cayley  would support the whole Bill, because there were remedial measures in the contemplation of the Government for the improvement of Ireland, which he was sure every English Member would support.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that such a proviso was unnecessary, as the hon. Gentleman and the House might rely upon it that the Lord Lieutenant would not exercise the powers confided to him by this Bill so as to interfere in an improper way with the subject's right of petition. If, however, the hon. Member would allow this proviso to stand over till the report on the Bill, so as to give time to the Government to consider the proposition, he would not say that he would then object to the insertion of at least the first portion of the proviso.
 Colonel Torrens  wished to state the grounds of the vote which he should give, that the clause, as amended, do not stand part of the Bill. Many hon. Members assented to this and to other clauses of the Bill, because they had confidence in his Majesty's Ministers. Now this was the very reason why he dissented from the Bill. He had confidence in his Majesty's
 684 685
 Mr. Ruthven , adverting to a notice of motion given in the early part of the evening by the hon. member for South Durham, deprecated any precipitate interference with the currency of Ireland, such as that of making the Irish Bank notes a legal tender, which could have none but the most injurious effects [ Question
 Mr. Ruthven  knew that: but it was sufficient to excite alarm that such a notice had been placed on the Books of the House. It would be carried to Ireland by that evening's post, and would very probably cause an immediate run upon the banks. He was not one of those who wished to ruin the banks.
 Mr. Ruthven  contended that he was strictly in order. He was merely pointing out the consequences which would result from such a proposition. He saw that the House was not disposed to listen to him, and therefore he would merely repeat, that the very agitation of such a measure would cause a run on the bank, instead of preventing it.
 Mr. O'Connell  had heard of such a thing as passive resistance amongst loyal men, and there were many friends to the King and his Government who refused to pay tithes. They were very loyal subjects, but they refused to pay tithes. Why should not others act in the same manner? In fact, the moment he saw the hon. member for South Durham, he prophesied that he would be soon in the middle of the Treasury Bench, and the prophecy was likely to be accomplished. He would now state the nature of the first clause, which was utterly misunderstood. Would it be believed that no promulgation of the Lord Lieutenant's order to suppress a meeting was necessary? [ No No
 Mr. Stanley  wished to observe, that during the absence of the hon. Member, the Solicitor General stated that words were to be introduced into the clause, rendering the promulgation of the order necessary.
 Mr. O'Connell  was arguing on the clause as it stood in the Bill, and the right hon. Secretary had contradicted him, when speaking of the contents of the Bill in his hand, though the right hon. Gentleman now admitted that such words were to be introduced into the clause. He would appeal, however, to the Chairman, and ask whether it was not then impossible to introduce anything into the clause? [ Chairman assented 690 No, no 691 No, no fiat 692
 Mr. Stanley  observed, that the House might well be weary of the debate. He should say but a few words, in order to recall the attention of the Committee to the proper topic. The hon. and learned Gentleman had been arguing upon the supposition that the order of the Lord Lieutenant was to be a verbal order, although he knew that a distinct pledge had been
 693 694 695
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that it was exceedingly easy to make assertions. He knew Ireland better than the right hon. Gentleman; and he ought also to have a deeper interest in its prosperity. [ No, no 696 Mr. Stanley expressed his dissent
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to that part of the clause which authorised Magistrates to force their way into any House in which they should have reason to believe that any prohibited meeting was held, as being-much too vague, as giving too great a discretion to Magistrates, and as affording no redress to individuals wrongfully apprehended.
 Mr. Stanley  begged pardon for interrupting the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he wished to say, that if the hon. and learned member for Dublin acquiesced in the earlier part of this clause, his Majesty's Government would be disposed to yield the other point, and to exchange the summary jurisdiction for Trial by Jury.
 Mr. O'Connell  could not acquiesce in any part of the clause, although he would not have recourse to the desperate expedient of a division.
 Mr. O'Connell  asked if it was understood that the summary jurisdiction of the Magistrates was taken away, and the Trial by Jury substituted?
 Mr. Stanley  replied in the affirmative.
 Mr. O'Connell  stated, that he had a further objection to this clause. By the first clause every person present at a prohibited meeting was to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and was to be tried and punished according to the course of the Common Law. By the second clause, any person who did not depart from such meeting within a quarter of an hour from the time of the notice of the Magistrates to do so, was to be proceeded against in a summary way, before any two Justices of the Peace, and imprisoned for three months, and for a second, or any subsequent offence, for one year. To this summary jurisdiction on the part of the Magistrates he most strongly objected.
 Colonel Perceval  said, before the Committee came to a vote expunging that part of the clause which he thought most beneficial—namely, taking the great political offenders out of the operation of the Bill; persons who were the great causes of all the miseries that afflicted Ireland, he must enter his protest against such a course. It was now proposed to submit these offenders to the operations of the common law; now, if the common law were sufficient to grapple with them, what reason could there be for proposing the present measure? Nothing reconciled the Bill to those with whom he acted, but the knowledge that the common law was insufficient. In giving his support to the first reading of the Bill, he had implored the right hon. Gentleman not to permit its provisions to be frittered away; but he regretted to perceive, that even in the very first clause, the right hon. Gentleman had conceded to the enemies of all order. It would be competent for the Volunteers to enrol themselves, and unless they were guilty of some atrocity, they could not be brought under the operations of the Bill. Impressed with this conviction he must enter his protest against the first deviation from the principles of the Bill as he had agreed to it.
 Mr. Lynch  would, under such circumstances, allow the proviso to stand over until the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. Lynch  proposed the insertion of a proviso at the end of the first clause, to the effect that the Act should not be construed to extend, or in any manner to affect meetings of counties, or divisions of counties, called by the Lord Lieutenant, or the Sheriff of the county, or by four Magistrates; and that it should not extend to any public meeting in any borough or town corporate, called by the Mayor or other constituted authorities, or to any meeting of any ward or division in such boroughs or towns corporate, when so convened.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  trusted the House would adopt the proposed Amendment, and thus mitigate in some degree the severity of this horrible encroachment on the Constitution. As for the responsibility of the Lord-lieutenant alluded to by the Solicitor General it must evidently be a mere name, for he was authorised at any time to prohibit a meeting  ex mero motu
 Mr. O'Dwyer , acting from a feeling of duty, rose to protest against the clause. He maintained, that the chief cause why Great Britain had escaped those revolutions, which, in modern times, had desolated other countries, was, that the people possessed a quiet and lawful means of making their opinions known. The hon. Member begged leave, in support of this view to direct the attention of the House to the following passage from the writings of De Lolme, whom he considered to be admirable authority in all that related to
 681 * * * 682
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  also opposed the clause. By whom, he asked, were the powers which the Bill conferred, to be exercised? By an irresponsible body. What satisfaction was it to the Irish when their liberties were crippled, to be told that they might trust the Lord Lieutenant? It was a mockery of justice. What now became of the boasted Constitution, if that might be practised? What became of that which had bound Ireland to England, by the ties of sisterhood and affection—when, just as the cup of hope and of affection had been raised to her lips, and dashed from her hands, she was told, that the mis-government of unreformed ages was to be established and confirmed by the first Reformed Parliament? What state must the Irish be in, when they asked to go back to the old tyranny—when they implored the Parliament for the blessings of packed Juries, and the summary operation of the law? Even these evils were preferable to Courts-martial, and to hiding-holes, into which any one might thrust an Irishman. If any part of Yorkshire were disturbed, would any Member consent to apply such a measure as this to London? Certainly not; and was not that a parallel case? No man could deny it. When had any disturbance arisen from a meeting in Ireland? He had presided over many—over 200,000 persons—hastily called together under the sanction of the right hon. Secretary, at a time when the voice of agitation was music in his ears; and all was peace and quiet. They had no banners with a bloody knife hanging over a king's head; there was no exciting people to rebellion. No such thing. Why not suppress such meetings when they occurred here, and threatened the State with ruin? Why was not a measure like this introduced in 1817, when some such notice as this was posted on the walls of London:—"Have a care. Britons to arms! The whole country watches the signal from London; arms! Break open the gunsmiths' shops, and other likely places to find arms. No Regent! No Castlereagh! Off with their heads! No Church! No tithes! No inclosures! No Bishops! Now is the time! Free, free yourselves, or you are
 683
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that if Magistrates were not considered worthy of confidence, let them be struck out of the Commission.
 Mr. George F. Young  was willing to intrust all powers rendered necessary by the state of Ireland to the Lord-lieutenant; but he was ready to give his consent to any Amendment having for its object the preservation of one of the most sacred and constitutional rights of the people, provided it could be shown not to neutralize the effect of the clause. He would certainly vote against the Amendment of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, because he believedit had been proved that that would nullify the clause; but he should like to know whether something in the nature of the hon. member for Meath's (Mr. Grattan's) proposition might not be adopted.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he entirely coincided in the remarks made by the hon. member for Kircudbright, and considered his objection fatal to the clause.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that the powers
 670
 Mr. Lambert  begged to ask, if it was to be in the power of the Lord Lieutenant to suppress a meeting in any district of which he had received no notice?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that according to the wording of the Act, no person was to be considered guilty for attending a prohibited meeting until he refused to depart.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he objected to the whole clause, which he was convinced was, in fact, levelled against the hon. member for Dublin, and was intended to put him down. He did not, however, think that the attempt would be successful. Might not an account of a meeting which never took place be published? Might not the speeches and sentiments said to have been delivered at it be given forth to the world? If the inflammatory language delivered at meetings were the thing most dreaded, from the effect it was supposed to have upon the people of Ireland, how was the promulgation of such a fictitious account to be prevented by the Act?
 Mr. Hume  asked, what would be the consequence if they did not agree to this Amendment? If they did not allow the people to meet, and to state their grievances, the refusal of that constitutional right would give rise, more and more, to insubordination and disturbance. He would ask of the noble Lord whether his object, that of pacifying the people and restoring tranquillity, would be forwarded by such a proceeding? On the contrary, would not the putting down of public meetings in this arbitrary manner render the people more and more discontented? The disturbances that afflicted Ireland arose from grievance and oppression; and should not the people of that country be allowed, by petition, to place before the House whatever grievance or oppression they had to complain of? They ought to be cautious how they permitted even small inroads on the Constitution. They extended from day to day, and, at length, one by one, the liberties of the people were sacrificed. He meant not to defend meetings which assembled to disturb the peace and quiet of the whole community, but, in the language and words and meaning of the Amendment, he would contend, that when any portion of his Majesty's subjects wished to meet peaceably, and intended, at such meeting, merely to state to that or to the other House of Parliament any grievance by which they were oppressed, it was against the most sacred and valuable privileges of the Constitution to prevent them from assembling. In 1825, when a bill was brought in, the object of which was to put down the Catholic Association, Mr. Brougham, with reference to that measure, spoke thus:—' I am the advocate of the right of the Irish people to meet, to consider, to plan, to petition, to remonstrate, to demand; and my frank opinion is—an opinion which I set out with avowing, and, which, I trust, will reach the whole of Ireland as well as the whole of England—that the more energetic their remonstrance, provided that it be peaceable—the stronger the language they use, provided it be respectful—the more firm their port, the more lofty their demeanour, the more conformable will it be to the high interests of those who have all at stake which can render life desirable, or existence honourable; and infinitely more likely to succeed than any abject
 675 *
 Mr. Hume  moved the second reading of Sir John Soane's Museum Bill. He observed, that Sir John Soane had been engaged for thirty years in collecting books, manuscripts, and antiquities, at a great expense, and had arranged them in the most complete order; so that, at once, reference could be made for the attainment of any particular information. Having derived everything from science himself, Sir John Soane was willing to communicate the advantages of his researches, and the benefit, of his labours to the public. He wished that the Museum he had formed should be useful to others; and for that purpose he now asked the House to pass this Bill, which was to invest certain trustees with the management of the Museum, for the public benefit, and to enable himself to complete his purpose of investing 30,000 l l l l l
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any arrangement had been made for the future? He thought that each place or
 699
 Mr. Pease  said, that ever since he had taken his seat upon that (the ministerial) side of the House, he had become a mark for every one to shoot at; but he should, nevertheless, do his public duty fearlessly. Though he had many objections to different parts of the measure then before the House, he would, notwithstanding, give his support to the first clause. It did not, in his opinion, interfere with the right of petitioning. Two or three persons might frame the petition, and then procure the signatures of every individual in the town or district. He firmly believed that his Majesty's Ministers had no disposition to invade the liberties of the subject, and he should give his vote for this clause in the most perfect confidence that by so doing he was fulfilling his primary duty in supporting the King and Government.
 Mr. Pease  informed the hon. Member that he had withdrawn his notice.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that by the Amendment moved, no meeting could be held without ten days' notice, and then, in all cases, notice was required to be given to the Lord Lieutenant. This was to be the case in the proclaimed districts; but what, he would beg to ask, what was to be the law where the district was not proclaimed? He begged to put that question to the noble Lord, and he should be happy to see that the noble Lord had as much sympathy with the people of Ireland as he once showed to the Creoles. He begged to ask the noble Lord, if the Lord Lieutenant was to have the power of preventing meetings in the districts not proclaimed? As the clause now stood, he understood, that the Lord Lieutenant had the power. Then it followed that the Lord Lieutenant was to know by intuition what was to be said at meetings; he was to know it by anticipation. The people of Ireland were, in fact, to have no right to meet for the purpose of petitioning, either in the proclaimed districts, or those which were not proclaimed. He, at least, saw no difference in this respect between the proclaimed and the other districts. Those who opposed this measure were told that they ought not to refer to what took place in 1819. He, however, would glance at what was done at that time; premising that there was nothing so harsh in the Six Acts then passed as was to be found in this measure. Was there anything to be found in those Acts like placing an immense power—the power to prevent
 * 676 Yes
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that his Majesty's Government themselves showed that they had no confidence in Magistrates by proposing to call in soldiers to execute the functions of Magistrates.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to know if the Irish barristers employed in the same way had not been paid less; viz. five guineas per day for their allowance, and one guinea per day for expenses, including travelling?
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was of opinion that the hon. and learned member for Dublin's Amendment was inconsistent with the clause, and contrary to what he stated was his wish. Conceiving that the power which the clause conferred on the Lord Lieutenant was necessary for the efficacy of the Bill, he should oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought, that they should not go on with the Bill without carrying the remedial measures forward hand in hand with it. The House was to blame in having lost so much time last night upon a mere matter of form, instead of hastening forward, as it was its duty to do, the remedial measure of Church Reform as quickly as possible. For his part he would prefer the revival of the bill against the Catholic Association to the measure now before the House. He thought the suggestion of the hon. and learned member for Monaghan (Mr. Perrin) should be attended to, and that the clause should be altered so as to give the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the power of dispersing the meetings which it was the object of this Bill to put down; but he should not have the power, which the Bill at present gave him, of creating it a misdemeanor to attend those meetings. By one clause of the Bill, the Justices, when they directed a meeting to disperse, would only have the power to punish those who remained in defiance of the law with three months' imprisonment; while by this clause, those who went away—who obeyed the prohibition and dispersed—might be punished with five years' imprisonment. Thus the real offenders would escape with a very trifling punishment, while those who had ignorantly and innocently attended the meeting, or went away when they were bid, would be severely punished. He wished the punishment to be fixed by the clause, and that a more severe punishment should be assigned to those who refused to go away than to those who dispersed. He was well aware that it was absolutely necessary to suppress the meetings and
 686
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  inquired whether
 687
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought it would be very dangerous to establish a law in Ireland which might serve as a precedent to be applied to England to-morrow. He would support the Amendment, which would leave the Bill efficient for every honest purpose.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that although the Magistrates must act on their own discretion, they would be responsible to the Lord-lieutenant of the county.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that in consequence of the omission of the words "Consolidated Fund" in the Reform Act, the Treasury, though directed to pay the Registering Barristers, had been unable to do so, without a specific vote. The Barristers had borne their expenses out of their own pockets, and those, as well as the stipulated allowances, ought, without delay, to be discharged; he, therefore, asked the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply for the purpose of agreeing to a Resolution to that effect.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the accounts of the Barristers had been very carefully gone through, and they all accorded with a certain scale of fees and expenses which the Treasury had established after due consideration. He moved "That 30,500 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  added, that the charges of some few of the barristers exceeded those which the Treasury had thought it right to fix as the maximum, and that the accounts of other barristers were below it; the first had been reduced, but of course it had not been deemed necessary to raise the last.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that the expense of registering in Ireland had been 12,000 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that in no case more than a guinea per day for expenses, and 2 s
 Mr. Spring Rice  replied, that the custom arose out of an Act of Parliament, which gave the privilege to the port of London only.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to declare, that he should vote against the clause, as he would against the entire law, however amended or altered. He resisted it because its direct tendency was to take from the Irish people the right to petition, and because it was a stepping-stone to the introduction of a similar measure into England. Everything would be done to narrow it and destroy it by degrees. But he would on this, as on all occasions, endeavour to do justice to his Majesty's servants; if they attacked the rights of the people, it was because they could not maintain their system without destroying them. They had two courses before them—redress of grievances, or deprivation of right. The former they were resolved not to grant, and, consequently, they were compelled to attack the rights of the people. Though, therefore, they might become tyrants, it was from necessity; and the question would be, whether the nation would submit to their system. The member for South Durham (Mr. Pease) deserved the thanks of the country for having let out so much of the real state of the case. The reasons he had given were perfectly understood, the whole matter was quite plain to him; and to show his gratitude to the hon. Member for the service he had rendered, though without intending it, he would tell him an American story. During that war, which he (Mr. Cobbett) should always consider a rebellion—though
 689
 Mr. Hall  said, that the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member anticipated one which he had given notice that he would move on the 9th clause. He thought that no individual whatever should be intrusted with such power as this clause conferred upon the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and he feared that the Amendment, in its present shape, would sanction the power conferred by the clause itself of enabling the Lord Lieutenant to put. down any meeting for the purpose of petitioning. He also thought that the conferring of such powers was only calculated to widen the breach between the people of Ireland and the constituted authorities of that country. ( Calls of Question
 Mr. Ward  grieved for the necessity of such a Bill, and such a clause, but believing in the existence of the necessity, he would oppose the Amendment. They had been told to look at the petitions; he had looked at them very particularly, and believed that no question which so deeply affected a nation was ever characterised in such cautious and guarded terms as the measure was in those petitions. Almost all of them had originated with the Political Unions [ No, no
 The Solicitor General  said, that the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned member for Dublin was wholly inconsistent with the spirit of the clause. The hon. and learned Member proposed to allow any number of persons to assemble, provided their object was to petition against a grievance. Now, who was to say what was a grievance? The hon. and learned Member thought the Established Church a grievance—some thought absenteeism, and others the want of Poor-laws a grievance. The proposed Amendment would nullify the whole clause. In 1825, when a Bill was passed to put down illegal associations in Ireland, the very exception now suggested by the hon. and learned Member was introduced, which rendered the Act wholly inoperative; and the evil went on increasing until the year 1829, when a Bill was passed without that exception, and the consequence was, that the Catholic Association was then put down. He admitted that the clause was despotic; but if it was required by the circumstances of Ireland—if it was necessary to put down the Volunteers—it had better be passed as it stood, than in such a modified form as to be rendered of no effect. In considering the clause, it should always be borne in mind that the Lord-lieutenant would exercise the powers intrusted to him under the liability to impeachment for their abuse.
 The Solicitor General  said, that it was proposed to introduce into the Bill a provision rendering it necessary that a public notice should be given of the Lord Lieutenant's intention to prohibit the meeting, and it was only after such public notice that any person attending the meeting would be liable to be tried for a misdemeanor. In his opinion, a person circumstanced as had been supposed, would have a clear defence against the penalties of the Bill. But he begged to remind the hon. Member, that, by the common law, the fact of being present at an unlawful meeting constituted an unlawful act, though the person present might have had no knowledge of the illegal nature of the meeting. He thought the fixing of the punishment at two months' imprisonment would be injurious, inasmuch as there might be different degrees of guilt. One man might do little, another a great deal; he might say, "what do I care for the Lord Lieutenant? I'll resist any force he sends here." These two persons would deserve different degrees of punishment.
 The Solicitor General  was of opinion that only a reasonable compensation had been given.
 The Solicitor General  observed, that any person who, after knowing a meeting to have been prohibited, should attend it,
 688
 The Solicitor General  apprehended that the expense would be considerably less the next time the aid of the barristers was required.
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed his satisfaction that the House had received this Bill in such a very favourable manner, and praised the disinterested course adopted by Sir John Soane. There had been instances in which such valuable collections were made a matter of bargain and sale, and yet professedly for the benefit of the country. This, however, was a very different case; for though Sir
 668 l
 Mr. Hutt  was anxious to be informed why in London only Tea duty free was allowed to be furnished to shipping? He thought, at all events, that the same privilege ought to be extended to the out ports.
 Lord Althorp  said, that, as the payment was generally out of the taxes, all parts of the kingdom paid a just proportion.
 Lord Althorp  objected to the proposed Amendment, because it would defeat he whole purpose for which the clause was framed. The object of the clause was to give to the Lord-lieutenant the power to suppress any meeting which he conceived to be dangerous to the public peace. The hon. and learned Member's Amendment would have the effect of rendering that power nearly nugatory; because meetings of a very mischievous character might be convened under the pretence of petitioning against grievances. Who, he should like to know, was to decide whether a meeting was called together for the  bonâ fide
 Lord Althorp  submitted to the hon. Member, that he was discussing a question not then before the House.
 Mr. Hodgson  concurred entirely with the statements that had been made by the hon. member for Boston, though be had certainly understood that the arrangement mentioned by the hon. Baronet was to take effect.
 Colonel Williams  had been requested to support the prayer of these petitions, which he did most cordially; he hoped the question would be soon brought before the House, and finally disposed of in the liberal manner which was now expected by the country.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  presented a Petition from the Dealers of Soap in the neighbourhood of London, signed by upwards of 600 persons complaining of the interruption to their trade by the heavy duties which were placed upon that article, and which rendered it impossible for them to compete with the foreigner in that article. The duty on the soap made use of by the lower
 726
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, it was quite clear, when soap was charged with a duty of 28 s ad valorem
 Mr. Alderman Wood  presented a Petition from certain persons in the Borough of Southwark, against the Irish Coercive Bill. He
 727 l
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  said, he was in the Committee appointed last year, and he was of an entirely different opinion from the hon. Member.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he did not mean to press the noble Lord to put an end to tithes. But the present system of enforcing them was so oppressive to the people, so destructive of human life, so harassing to the peasantry, so ruinous in its consequences, as regarded the Government, and so contrary to every just feeling, and to the dictates of religion, that he put it to the noble Lord whether the payment ought to be enforced while those measures were in progress? If the noble Lord were to suspend the enforcement of tithes, he (Mr. O'Connell) was sure that he would have the most respectable majority with him, in support of that measure, that he ever had since he went into office. Was the noble Lord aware of the state of misery of the Irish people? This was the period of the year when they suffered more than at any other period. The last crop was exhausted, and they had nothing for their support till the next crop came in; and the misery and want to which they were subjected, was incomprehensible to any person who had not seen it. If the noble Lord would accede to his suggestion, he was sure that it would in a great measure allay the ferment which the passing of the measure then before the Committee would necessarily produce in Ireland.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the hon. and learned Member must be aware that it was impossible for the Government to accede to his proposition. He did not know what the hon. and learned Member
 745
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was always anxious to avoid making inaccurate statements, and he did not think, that the information on which he made that one was erroneous. When the police acted in the enforcement of tithes, the people, without drawing the nice distinction drawn by the right hon. Secretary, considered that they did so by the orders of Government, and indeed that their acts were the acts of the Government. In Roscommon, none but the police were employed to levy tithes. And as to the refusal of the police to give vouchers, which was doubted by the right hon. Secretary, he (Mr. O'Connell) was sure that information might be got in London to corroborate it. There were many instances in which people offered to pay their arrears, if they could get vouchers, but vouchers were refused. He was sure that the senior member for Roscommon, if he were in the House, could confirm what he said.
 An Hon. Member  said, that the general impression in Ireland was, that the Bill was merely intended for the enforcement of tithes.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped as that was the case, that the noble Lord would consent to the suspension of the enforcement of the payment of tithes by means of the police, for the present. Collisions were happening frequently, he might say every day, between the people and the police.
 744
 Mr. Stanley  said, the clause referred to by the hon. Member was, "such persons as shall by force, threat, or other unlawful means." ["Hear, hear,"  from Mr. Shiel
 Mr. Stanley  could see no reason, if the country at large were disturbed, and if there was an agricultural district of many miles square in the centre of the country, for excepting it from the operation of the Act merely because that central district happened to be under city jurisdiction.
 Mr. Stanley  thanked the hon. Gentleman for reminding him and the House, that it was the Marquess of Wellesley, and not the Legislature, which exempted the district in question from the operation of the Act. Might not the Marquess of Anglesey act in the same manner as the Marquess of Wellesley? The Legislature had left it in that case to the discretion of the Lord Lieutenant, and why not in this?
 Mr. O'Cornell  said, it did not follow because one Lord Lieutenant was considerate and humane, that another would
 753
 Mr. Pryme  said, that if the clergy were
 762
 Mr. Stanley  said, that however, the hon. Gentleman who had proposed this Amendment and himself might differ as to the details of the Bill, they were agreed as to the one great object—namely, the necessity of giving security to property, and restoring the peace of the country; and he was sure that the hon. Gentleman would do him (Mr. Stanley) and his colleagues the justice to believe that they were as equally anxious as he was, though perhaps they proposed to travel by somewhat different ways, to arrive at the same result. He should have wished that the hon. Member had postponed the introduction of this Amendment until they came to the consideration of the Court-martial clause, as had been suggested by his hon. friend the member for Kirkcudbright, for the discussion of this Amendment involved the question, merely whether certain offences should be tried by one tribunal or by another. However, as the question had come under discussion, it was proper that the Committee should at once come to an understanding upon it. He entirely agreed with his noble friend beside him, that it was by no means the intention or the wish of the Government to apply this Act to enforce the levying of tithes, any more than the levying; of rents. He felt, at the same time, that it was of the utmost importance that the Act should make no distinction between criminal offences committed against the rights of the clergy, and those committed against the rights of the laity. The 27th George 3rd seemed to be pointed entirely against a particular description of offences, and the 11th clause of that Act was more especially framed against two species of offences—the one a general conspiracy or combination, and
 764
 Mr. Stanley  thought the hon. and learned Member ought to take care, and be a little more correct in his allusions to what had taken place. What his noble friend near him had stated was, that he had no objection to that part of the amendment which went to prevent the introduction of this Bill by the Lord Lieutenant into any county, merely because of tithes not being paid; but he objected to the latter part of the Amendment, which bore a different construction.
 Lord Altkorp  repeated that his only objection was to the latter part of the Amendment, which said, "nor shall it be lawful for the Lord Lieutenant, or other Governor, to enforce the provisions of this Bill for the payment or collection of tithes."
 Mr. Wynn  urged upon his Majesty's Ministers the absurdity of dividing in favour of a clause which the Solicitor General declared would be injurious to the Bill.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that certainly his opinion was that the clause would be better without the Amendment, and that the Government agreed to it merely in de-
 768
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he had no objection to insert after the words "from the day" the words "after that;" so that the
 770
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he should have no objection to alter the last paragraph of this clause in the following manner—"by affixing a copy thereof on some public place, in each barony, within the same district."
 An Hon. Member  proposed that a copy should be affixed on each police station in each barony.
 Mr. Stanley  objected to this alteration as it would increase the difficulty of obtaining a conviction. In some baronies there were nine or ten police stations, and unless it could be proved, that copies had been affixed on the whole number of police stations no conviction could be had under the Act.
 Mr. Stanley's  Amendment was agreed to, and the Clause as amended directed to stand part of the Bill. 771
 Mr. Stanley  proposed to omit the words "and such other persons as such Lord Lieutenant, or other chief Governor, or Governors, of Ireland, shall think fit to authorize in that behalf." The intention of Government was, to limit the power given by this clause to a particular class of public officers, and not to give to the Lord Lieutenant the power of appointing any persons to execute the Act, save those specifically named here.
 An Hon. Member  said, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin's objection might be got rid of by letting the clause run—" officers commanding his Majesty's forces of the line in Ireland."
 Mr. Stanley , who said, that a short explanation which he was about to make would obviate the objection of the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, and would render his further argument on this point at least unnecessary. In the Courts-martial clause it was the intention of Government, in compliance with the suggestions of some hon. Members, who thought that the Army ought not to be brought unnecessarily into collision with the people, to introduce an amendment incapacitating officers who were in military service in the proclaimed districts from sitting as members on a Court-martial for the trial of offenders. After the alteration should be made in that clause, enacting
 773
 Mr. Stanley  said, he had no objection to limit this power to officers of the line, as it was supposed the words would include yeomanry.
 Mr. Philip  Howard said, that he had been in the House the whole of the evening and he must say, that to the best of his observation the hon. and learned member for Dublin had confined himself to the question before the House. He thought, however, it would be better to come to some compromise upon the present occasion. Perhaps the hon. Member, and those who acted with him, would consent to sit for half an hour longer. No good, he was sure, could result from prolonging a discussion which was carried on in such an angry spirit.
 Mr. Baldwin  would seriously ask the Government if it meant to extend this clause to the cities of Dublin, Cork, Limerick, and other towns? Would the Government prevent the inhabitants of such cities from going about their business, and compel them to remain at home after dark? Why, it would prevent them from transacting their ordinary affairs. If any man were to plan a measure to restrain liberty, destroy the interests of industry, and ruin the property and revenue of a country, he could not plan a more effectual measure than this, if it were to be extended to cities.
 Mr. Lamb  stated, that Lord Althorp was at present engaged in a most important Committee, which was the reason why his noble friend was not in the House. In the mean time, however, if it was agreeable to the hon. Member to make short speeches, he hoped the House would not take the assertions for granted, until the person who was most competent had an opportunity of answering them.
 Mr. Lamb  said, that whatever course the House thought proper to pursue would meet with his approbation. He must, however, frankly state, that he left the House the other day with impressions very different from those of the hon. Baronet opposite. He certainly did not consider that any understanding had been come to on the presentation of a series of petitions on a particular subject; but even if such an understanding had been come to, he begged to remind the hon. Baronet that the petition which was first presented by the hon. member for Middlesex related to the Assessed Taxes. He thought the House could not do better than follow the old course of receiving petitions upon different subjects.
 Colonel Butler  presented a Petition from Kilkenny, against the present Tithe system. The petitioners were of opinion, that if the Government took the Church property into its own hands, it would be possible to exonerate the people from payment of tithes he agreed with them in opinion, and in order to convince the House of the real value of Church property, he would read the particulars of a document which he had carefully gone over. In a parish of the diocese of Ossory, in the county of Kilkenny, not far from where he resided, there was a portion of land, amounting to 407 acres, two roods, and thirty perches, belonging to the Bishop, for which the occupying and ostensible tenants paid a rent of 658 l s d s s d s d s d 728
 Colonel Perceval  objected to making any distinction between the jurisdiction of counties of cities and other districts, and supported the clause.
 Mr. Lynch  would move a similar Amendment as to Galway.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  contended, that the power given by this clause was of itself calculated to throw the whole country into confusion, and to create general disturbance. Why should malignant Magistrates, or perverse Lord-lieutenants, have a power given them to work mischief at their pleasure.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  moved the following Amendment to the Clause—: "Provided always that nothing in this Act shall be taken to empower the Lord Lieutenant, or any other authority, to declare the county of the city of Dublin in a state of disturbance or insubordination, or to require the application of the provisions of this Act."—The Committee again divided: Ayes 36; Noes 251.—Majority 215.
 Mr. David Roche  would take the same course as to Limerick.
 Mr. Divett  objected to the Committee reporting progress at so early an hour. The debate upon this question had commenced on the first reading—it had been followed up on the second reading—it had been continued in the Committee on every clause, to the interruption of all other business—and it ought not to be thus easily adjourned night after night. An effort should be made to make a positive progress with it. In justice to the country—in justice to the suffering people of Ireland—to the other great questions of public interest, on which the minds of the people were anxiously bent—this system of delay should be strenuously resisted. He must suggest, that if greater progress were not made, they could not, in justice
 774
 Mr. Divett  said, he had not made an unfounded accusation. He did not say that it was unnecessary to discuss the Bill, but that it was not right they should report progress at so early an hour. No one regretted the necessity for the Bill more than he did; but having once made up their minds to that necessity, and that the Bill ought to pass, he thought they should sit there till a later hour, that they might afford time hereafter for the other business of the country.
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  said, that the hon. and learned Member was right in his statement. He (Mr. O'Connor) was aware
 746
 Mr. French  denied that such was the universal practice. He could say that the tithes in one of the largest parishes in that part of the country, were not one-fortieth part of the rent, and were collected without difficulty.
 Mr. Shaw  thought there should be no misunderstanding on this subject, and hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) would explicitly state whether or not he meant to convey, that the established clergy of Ireland were to be treated as outlaws? Whether or not they alone were to be denied the protection of whatever laws might be in force for the security of person, property, and life in Ireland? He did not ask more for them than for any other class of his majesty's subjects—but it would be the most cruel injustice if they were to receive less merely because they were the most defenceless and oppressed class of persons in the United Kingdom at that moment.
 Mr. Shaw  said, there had been much useless discussion about 27th George 3rd, for independently of it a conspiracy to defraud was a common law misdemeanor—although to omit allusion to it in the 17th clause of the present Act would be to point out the clergy as a proscribed class. He (Mr. Shaw) protested altogether against the Amendment of the hon. member for Wexford, as to inserting in that clause that the Lord-lieutenant could not proclaim a district merely because tithe was not paid—it would be a downright absurdity in legislation, when the preceding words stated that nothing but outrage and insubordination could justify him in proclaiming it; but then it would be more than absurd—for it would serve to cast an insult on the clergy, and to point out their property as less deserving of protection in case of outrage than that of any other portion of the community. The hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) indeed would, in his tender mercy, allow the lives of the clergy to be protected, provided they would remain in their houses—but was not this a cruel mockery of the sufferings of men to whom on an average nearly three years' income was due, and who, for aught that hon. Member cared, might stay within, the bare walls of their houses, and die there of starvation? He would read one passage from the sworn evidence of Captain Vignolles, given within the last few days before a Coroner's Inquest, to prove the species of attack the clergy would be subject to in the exercise of their legal and just rights, if not protected by the law. Captain Vignolles swore that the most violent assault was made upon the persons engaged in the
 763
 Mr. Shaw  called upon the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Stanley) to state his views of the effect of the Amendment, as he (Mr. Stanley) had himself submitted to the Committee an amendment, which he (Mr. Shaw) understood was to be substituted for that now put from the Chair.
 Mr. Shaw  proposed to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, to move the substance of the Amendment that he should move at the end of the 17th clause, comprehending all civil processes, without specifying tithe.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the last amendment proposed by the right hon. Secretary would render the clause inoperative in many places. He knew of many counties of towns in which there was not a single barony.
 Mr. Finch  said, that he perfectly concurred in the distinction which had been drawn by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp). The Bill should not be made use of for the purpose of enforcing the collection of tithes; but then the possessors of tithes should be protected like other individuals, and their lives and properties should be secure against violence and outrage. It would seem from the discussions upon that, as upon former evenings, that though tithes were protected by the law, they were to be considered as contrary to equity and justice. It would seem, from the statement of the hon. member for Wexford, as if the opposition to tithes in Ireland had arisen from the distresses of the poor; but if the hon. Member would refer to the evidence given before a Committee of that House, he would see that Dr. Doyle boasted that he was the first person in Ireland to raise an opposition there to the payment of tithes.
 Mr. Barron  thought it would be advisable that the opinion of the Lord-lieutenant of any county should be taken before it was proclaimed. Having been personally alluded to on a former occasion, he must say, that he had procured an application to have an additional stipendiary Magistrate and the refusal to appoint one, reached him on the same day as the account of the murder of Mr. Leonard. He would never admit that the existing laws were not sufficient to punish crime, if they were promptly administered. In the case of the recent murder of Mr. Leonard, no less than thirty individuals were apprehended,
 752
 Mr. Barron  thought that there was not sufficient time given by this clause to the inhabitants of a proclaimed district to know that it was proclaimed. Two days, at least, ought to be allowed for that purpose.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  protested against the clause, as establishing a perpetual dictator in Ireland. It was a premium for agitation. It gave the dictator power to proclaim any district, and it would enable agitators to procure any district to be proclaimed, and would thus give such agitators a power over every individual in it. As they had brought in such a Bill, why did they not define the powers it conferred? They ought not to give such latitude to any man, whether he were a Lord-lieutenant or Secretary, as was conferred by the fourth clause. The Secretary or the law officers might easily find cause, in what they called the demoralization of the people, for proclaiming any district, whether there were any real disturbance in it or not. Had the right hon. Gentleman forgot Nobber? After passing this clause, it would be better for the Irish Gentlemen to vacate their seats and go home. The Government knew nothing of the state of Ireland; and he knew the right hon. Secretary too well to be deluded or deceived by him. He was sure that the whole Bill, and the whole conduct of the Government betrayed the grossest ignorance as to the state of Ireland. If the right hon. Secretary had applied himself to the business of his office, he might have put down disturbance. Yes, if he had done his duty, there might have been an end to outrage. But he knew what the right hon. Secretary was about: he was sending his lancers and his dragoons to collect tithe-pigs and tithe-pence, and he knew nothing of the disturbances till they had got to a great height. There never was an individual went to Ireland with such powers to do good as the right hon. Secretary, and there never was an individual who had done so little good. The right hon. Secretary now found that every one of his measures was a complete failure; he found that his Tithe Bill could not be enforced; that it was good for nothing; and he called upon that House to suspend the liberties of Ireland, and place that country under a perpetual dictatorship. If they would try Ireland once more—if they would spare her this additional curse, and withdraw the right hon. Secretary and his Bill for the forcible collection of tithes, the disturbances would cease, and peace and tranquillity would be restored to the country. He conjured them to pause—
 754
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that if the House sat at that hour to discuss that most important clause, it would be a sorry discussion indeed. There were many parts of the clause of a most extraordinary character, and would require the calmest and most serious deliberation.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  wished to know in what part of the Bill his hon. friend (Mr. Lambert) proposed to introduce his amendment. The right hon. Secretary said that none had been proceeded against except those who were able to pay. He knew, however, that the Attorney General had incurred expenses to the amount of 20 l
 Mr. Lambert  stated, that since the Bill had passed the House of Lords, he had received many letters from Ireland, in which it was stated, that if they did not think it was intended for the purpose of aiding the clergy in the enforcement of the tithes, they should have little objection to it. A provision therefore, such as he proposed, would recommend the Bill to the people of Ireland.
 Mr. Lambert  wished to learn from the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what was the remedial measure relative to the clergy and their rights which his Majesty's Ministers had stated they had in preparation? At the same time he must announce his intention to move an Amendment to the effect, that "that Bill should not be made use of for the purpose of enforcing the payment of tithes in Ireland."
 Mr. Lambert  rose to move an Amendment to the end of the clause. He had given his assent to the second reading of the Bill because of the outrages and agitation which existed, and which must be put an end to. He had seen nothing lately to make him form a different opinion. On the contrary, he had lately read a letter from one of the agitators, which had been published in a journal in the county with which he was connected, which called on the people of Wexford to wreak their vengeance on his hon. colleague and his children for the vote he had given in that House. He must still support the Bill; but he hoped it would be so modified as only to suppress outrage and put down the system of agitation. If it were so modified, he should give it his support on the third reading. As the Bill now stood, it was difficult not to conceive it to apply to the collection of tithes. He knew that, in many instances, tithes had been levied with kindness and with forbearance; but there were other instances, and he had seen some, in which they were levied with the utmost seventy. The Bill of 1832, which had transferred the rights of the tithe owners and the odium of collecting tithes to the Government—the Bill for forcibly collecting tithes of last Session had, as was foretold at the time, signally failed, though Government had used all its means and exerted all its powers in endeavouring to enforce it. The police, though contrary to the Act creating that force, had been employed to collect tithes, or, at least, to protect those who were employed in collecting and valuing tithes. The Army, too, had been brought out for the same purpose, and that, he must say, was a most perilous experiment. In one case, when the soldiers had been employed to enforce the collection of tithes from a poor man's potato-field, they had been unwilling to perform the duty; and the sergeant of the party at length exclaimed, "Comrades! we won't bear this any longer; let us club among ourselves and buy the tithe off, rather than enforce the payment." The Bill had increased the danger of the country, and had greatly extended the disappointment of the people. The consequences had been most injurious to the general peace and tranquillity. He
 756 "The war which for a space did fail, Now, trebly thundering, swells the gale, And 'Stanley' is the cry!" 757
 Mr. Lambert  wished only to say, that he was by no means anxious to put himself forward in making unnecessary alterations in the Bill; and in what he did propose he was actuated by the best intentions.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there seemed to be a mistake about the 27th of George 3rd. That Act comprehended both confederacies and the combinations respecting tithes, and he did not think that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman
 767
 Mr. Warburton  supported the proviso, and observed, that after the promise made by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) on a former night, to the effect that this Act was not to be applied to the levying or enforcing the payment of tithes, he could not conceive what objection could by any possibility be offered by the noble Lord or his colleagues to the present Motion. If, however, such a proviso were rejected, and the Bill were to be allowed to apply to the 11th section of the Act of the 27th George 3rd, the present could only be called "an Act for the collection of Tithes." The 11th section of the 27lh George 3rd, provided that "if any person or persons should by force or threats, or other unlawful means, prevent any clergyman or lay impropriator, or any person employed by such clergyman or lay impropriator, from viewing, valuing, setting, or selling any tithes to which said clergyman or lay impropriator was lawfully entitled, then that such person or persons should be held to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and liable to punishment by fine or imprisonment." Now, there was one species of offence which it might be contended that the provisions of the Bill could be fairly and legitimately applied to redress—he meant personal acts of violence towards clergymen, firing their houses, &c.; for such offences persons might be punished under this Act; but let it not be applied to any case that could be met by civil process. If an Amendment were not introduced which drew a distinction between crimes of violence and an opposition to tithes unaccompanied by such offences, the mere presence of a party at a tithe sale with a view to discountenance the tithe system might be brought under the 27th George 3rd. He considered the noble Lord as being bound in honour, after what he had said on a former evening, to put some limitation on the en-
 758
 Mr. Warburton  would put this simple question to the noble Lord. Would not an agreement to purchase in the lots at a distress sale for tithes be construed and interpreted by the law authorities in Ireland into a conspiracy against the payment of tithes? If that was the case, what became of the allegation of the noble Lord that this Bill would not be applied to the collection of tithes? The fact was, that all Ireland was in a conspiracy to resist the payment of tithes, and if any Irishman should do anything to defraud a clergyman of his tithes, it might be construed into a conspiracy, and might bring him within the provisions of this Act. There should be an express provision, expunging from this Bill the operation of the 11th clause of the 27th George 3rd.
 Mr. James Grattan  hoped that both Amendments would be withdrawn, for they would be perfectly useless. He was ready to believe that Ministers did not intend to apply this Bill to enforce the collection of the tithes; but it was impossible that it could be otherwise employed. The very disturbances which it was to repress—the disturbances in Kilkenny and Carlow, and other counties—had arisen out of the tithe system. He agreed with the hon. member for Kirkcudbright that the interpretation
 765
 Mr. James Grattan  again expressed his conviction that it would be necessary, before the Lord-lieutenant proclaimed a county, that the necessity of such a step should be clearly demonstrated to him. A district should not be proclaimed on the mere will or caprice of the Lord-lieutenant.
 Mr. James Grattan  was of opinion that some alteration in the clause was desirable. Whether that of the hon. member for Waterford was or was not the best to be adopted he would not say. He thought, however, that the Lord-lieutenant ought not to act until full and sufficient information was laid before him. The county might, for instance, be called together, and from such a meeting a call on the Lord-lieutenant, if it were necessary, might emanate.
 Mr. James Talbot  would not have voted for the first and second reading of the Bill if he had not been under the impression that it was not meant to enforce the payment of tithes. With regard to a statement made by the hon. member for Tralee on a former evening, that he (Mr. Talbot) had been a member of the Political Union, he denied that he had ever become so with his knowledge or consent.
 Mr. Talbot  said, that the version given by the hon. member for Tralee was very different from what he had formerly heard from Mr. French. He (Mr. Talbot) was not ashamed of having attended the meeting of the Union. He went there merely from curiosity, just as he had once gone to the Rotunda to hear the hon. Member lecture on the state of the Church.
 Mr. Marshall  presented a petition from Leeds, signed by 18,800 persons, praying for the Abolition of Slavery. He considered the present petition was a proof that the interest that had been taken by the people of Yorkshire in the abolition of slavery had not in the least diminished.
 Mr. Wilks  considered it would be utterly impossible for the House to comply with the request of the hon. Baronet to receive exclusively petitions of one particular description. He had twenty or thirty petitions on different subjects to present, and if the course suggested by the hon. Baronet were to be adopted, he should be under the necessity of attending day after day, perhaps for months, before he should be enabled to present all his petitions. He thought the House could not do better than to take its old course of receiving: petitions on all subjects.
 Mr. Perrin  said, he felt reluctantly compelled to support the amendment proposed by his hon. friend the member for Wexford, whose only object, he was sure, was to have the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) embodied in the Bill. He was quite sure, and all who knew his hon. friend must feel satisfied, that his hon. friend the member for Wexford, never countenanced or supported violence or outrage. His hon. and learned friend, one of the Representatives for the University of Dublin, had objected to that part of the Amendment which spoke of the resistance to the collection of tithes by force and violence as tending to throw a slur upon the Clergy; but he could assure the hon. and learned Member that his hon. friend near him had no such intention.
 Mr. O'Connell  was not satisfied with this Amendment, for he recollected, that the county of Cork was one district, and its opposite extremes were 150 miles apart from each other. Again, the county of Tipperary was very extensive; and yet, by this clause, a proclamation made at Carrick-upon-Suir was to be considered as a sufficient notice to the people at Senagh, eighty miles distant, that the county was proclaimed. He contended that the proclamation should be posted upon the doors of every Protestant Church and Catholic Chapel within the district. Anything so monstrous as this clause was never yet fabricated.
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed an earnest wish, that such an addition should be made to the clause as would give the public the means of ascertaining whether it was wise or expedient that any district proclaimed under the Act should be brought within its operation. He wished that it should be imperative upon the Lord Lieutenant to give public notice in the newspapers on the subject; and further, that the Lord Lieutenant should, with respect to any proclaimed district, be bound to lay before Parliament, if sitting, an account of all felonies within two or three months, at the selection of the Government, committed within such district. To effect this object he moved as a proviso that the Lord Lieutenant be required to lay before Parliament, or to publish in  The Dublin Gazette
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if he were in the vein for pleasantry, he should certainly adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, but he was not—the matter was too serious for him. He had certainly voted for the last amendment, which he must admit was as nonsensical as any he had ever supported. His fear was, that the "tithe non-payment "exemption would be got over by some other pretext being alleged as to the ground of proclamation. It was to guard against such a pretence that he had moved, and would persist in, his Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that, besides the words proposed by the right hon. Secretary to be omitted, the words "and also all commissioned officers commanding his Majesty's forces in Ireland, or any part thereof," should be erased from the clause. The words which he wished to strike out were not strict enough to exclude officers in yeomanry corps. The clause, as it now stood, included yeomanry officers, and those persons were authorized "to Search for, arrest, and detain for trial, under this Act, every person who shall be charged with any offence under it."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that that difficulty might be obviated by employing one police officer to affix all the different copies to the different police stations.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, as the clause was important, he hoped that the Chairman might then report progress.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to giving this power to military officers at all. He thought that no man should have power "to search for, arrest, and detain for trial" any person "who should be charged with any offence" under this Act, unless he was
 772
 Mr. O'Connell  was old enough to recollect the time when commissioned officers had the power to arrest in Ireland, and he was sorry to say, that they had used that power too often for the purpose of promoting the most immoral lust and debauchery. He was not sufficiently acquainted with the Army to know whether our officers had greatly improved in morality since that period. If they had not, this power ought not to be granted to them.
 Mr. O'Connell  would, at the proper time, move to exempt the jurisdiction of the county of the city of Dublin from the operation of this clause.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it appeared that the noble Lord would not object to the first part of the Amendment, because the first part of it, without the second, would be totally inoperative. He certainly had not known a case where a mere refusal to pay tithes was made a punishable offence under the 27th George 3rd; but suppose a case to occur where a refusal o pay had been given—where a distress had been in consequence issued, and where the answer to the bailiff who came to execute it was, "You shall not take my cow,"—would not the refusal in that case to pay tithes be construed under this Act to be a misdemeanor? He contended that it was absurd to say that this Act would not be applied to the levying of tithes, when they would leave the 27th of George 3rd to be interpreted by such learned sages as the members of a Court-martial.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. member for Exeter had made a most unfounded attack on the opponents of the Bill. The first part of the opposition of that evening, which had occupied many hours, he had discountenanced as much as any man; and now when he and his countrymen, who were to suffer by that Bill—that Bill which even its supporters termed arbitrary despotic, and cruel—when they were battling to obtain some little modification of its harshness and its tyranny, they were to be reproached in this manner! It was cruel in the extreme to throw out these taunts. If the public time were unnecessarily occupied, who was to blame? Why, nobody but the Ministers who introduced such an atrocious measure. There were two great principles of the Bill—the right of search, and the power of arrest and detention without evidence and without oath—which he felt it his duty to combat to the utmost. They were powers of a monstrous character, and such as ought never to be heard of in that House.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  begged leave to read a letter which he had received from Mr. John Joseph Murphy, of Dublin which would show the House what that gentleman's version of the story was. The hon. Member then read the letter, in which it was stated that Mr. Talbot accompanied the writer and Mr. French to the meeting of the Trades' Union. While there, Mr. Murphy asked Mr. Talbot to allow him (Mr. M.) to put him into nomination. Mr. Talbot answered, "Not now." Mr. Murphy then proposed that he should be put in nomination at the next meeting; to which Mr. Talbot did not object but assented. And accordingly he was proposed, and made a member. A few days afterwards Mr. French received a letter from Mr. Talbot, who by that time had gone to Athlone, in which he stated that he feared it might do him an injury with his constituents if it were known that he was a member of the Union, and begging of Mr. French to get his name withdrawn.
 747
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the Act which had been referred to, and which appeared to be followed in the Bill then before the House, looked to tithe property almost exclusively. It legislated for
 750 bona fide
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the addition a powers were merely for the enforcement of tithes. It was a tithe bill from beginning to end.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the construction was not his alone, but that of the Judges of the land. Mr. Barrington, who was for seventeen years Crown solicitor on the Munster circuit, said, that the Act contemplated every "unlawful obstruction; "but the Judges declared "that any obstruction was unlawful." Such was the construction put by these learned persons on the statute; and that construction would, of course, be acted on by the field-officers in future. He repeated that this was a measure for the collection of tithes, and would be so construed and acted on in Ireland. The Courts-martial would be useless if it were not so. It would be a dead letter unless the power contemplated by the Act referred to were admitted; and, if it were allowed, he feared it would lead to the shedding of much blood. 751
 Mr. O'Connell  agreed with the noble Lord, and added, looking to the way in which the Magistracy of Ireland was constituted, that the proposition was calculated to make the Bill a great deal worse than it was.
 Mr. Lalor  referred to six cases which had happened in the Queen's County, in which men had been distrained on for tithes who did not hold one acre of land each. He knew that personally; and yet the right hon. Secretary had said, that nobody had been distrained on for tithes except such as were well able to pay. The
 755
 Mr. Bernal  the Chairman of the Hertford Election Committee, stated that he had given notice of his intention of moving that the special Report of the Hertford Committee desiring that a Message might be sent to the House of Lords, to request their Lordships' leave for the attendance of the Marquess of Salisbury, and the production of certain of his leases of property in the borough, be taken into consideration that night. He had now to inform the House that the further consideration of this subject was rendered unnecessary, in consequence of a letter addressed to him that day by the Marquess of Salisbury, and which he would take the liberty of reading to the House. The letter was dated "The House of Lords," and was to the following purport. "Sir—Understanding that it will suit the convenience of the Committee to see the agreements entered into with some of my cottage tenants, and as some difficulty may arise in the way of obtaining them by motion in the House of Commons, I beg to enclose one, which I have in town, for the information of the Committee. They are all of a similar form, and I shall have no objection to submit to your inspection those specified in the votes of the House of Commons. But some delay will
 731
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the noble Lord opposite denied that the intention of the Bill was to enforce tithes. He did not mean to say, that the intention of the Government was, that as soon as a decree was given against a man for tithes, that decree should be delivered over to the soldiers to be put in force. But though the Ministers did not go so far as that, they went further than they pretended. There was in this Act a distinct reference to an Act of Parliament which referred exclusively to tithes. The Act 27th Geo. 3rd, related exclusively to tithes, and it was embodied in the Bill then before them. There was a series of enactments in that Act, which related not to property in general, but exclusively to tithes. That the noble Lord could not, and did not deny. Then it was pretended, that the Bill then under their consideration did not relate to tithes, but to property in general; but still that Bill referred to, and embodied, another Statute which referred exclusively to tithes. The only difference was, that the last Bill was severer than the former. It was as if they had culled out all the Irish statutes. [An  Hon. Member 749
 Mr. Sheil  demanded what necessity existed for extending this measure to any county of a city, or county of a town, in Ireland? Was it necessary with reference to Dublin, to Cork, to Kilkenny, to Londonderry? Why extend it to parts of Ireland where the most perfect tranquillity prevailed?
 Mr. Sheil  asked what the hon. member for Wexford could expect by acceding to the proposal made to him by the right hon. Secretary? He could assure the hon. member for Wexford, that he was about to enter into a compact in which the right hon. Secretary would not be found to agree. It was urged that there ought to be a specific clause on the subject, and the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed desirous to put the question out of doubt.
 Mr. Sheil  was right in the construction he had put upon what had fallen from the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The noble Lord was willing to agree to one-half the Amendment, which would, in fact, render it of no use at all. The noble Lord would agree to that half of it which by itself would be altogether inept. He would submit to the hon. Member opposite, and to the House, that the Amendment proposed b? the right hon. Secretary was by no means conclusive upon the subject. The 11th section of the 27th of George 3rd, would not be excluded from operation by the adoption of a clause to that effect. The present Ministers had acted differently from all the previous introducers of Insurrection Acts. On former occasions it was usual, in passing such an Act, to embody in it all such clauses of previous acts as were
 766
 Mr. Sheil  said, the right hon. Secretary had explained for the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Sheil  observed by this clause the; same officer might first arrest a man upon; a charge, and then try him for it after-wards. He was proceeding to condemn this arrangement, when he was interrupted by,
 Mr. Sheil : The explanation just made took away the objection which he had been about to urge, and showed the benefit of the protracted resistance which the Irish Members had made to this Bill. The Ministers were coming forward every hour with fresh mitigations and modifications of it, and he hoped to see it mitigated and modified much further than it was at present. The words of the clause were—"Every person who shall be charged with any offence." He thought they should be "who shall be charged on oath with any offence." He thought that all the executive part of this Bill should be performed by the police, and not by the soldiery. That was calculated to prevent the Army from being brought into collision with the people.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it would perhaps be better to postpone the consideration of such an Amendment as that now before the Committee until they had come to the Court-martial clause. It should be remembered that the 27th George 3rd gave, amongst other things, the power of punishing for any conspiracy to defraud the clergy of their tithes. Now, it did appear to him that the members of a Court-martial should not be constituted Judges to try what was a conspiracy to defraud the clergy.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  wished to take that opportunity to give notice, that he would move "That all further proceedings in the Irish Disturbance Bill be suspended till the measures relating to the Reform of the Church of Ireland, and the other measures for the amelioration of that country, have passed into laws. The day would never come when the Irish Disturbance Bill, as it at present stood, could pass into a law. His Majesty's Ministers said, that they would resign if it were rejected. He would much regret that such should be the consequence of the rejection of that measure; but even with that threat before him, he could not consent to deliver over the Irish nation to the dominion of the military. Did his Majesty's Ministers mean first to bring the country to a state of resistance in consequence of their measures, and then to resign in favour of their predecessors? He had another Amendment to more, which he would take an opportunity of doing-while the Bill was in Committee—namely, "that all the power granted to the Government by that act be limited to the counties composing the province of Leinster." The right hon. Secretary for Ireland had said, that the disturbances were confined exclusively to the province of Leinster, with very little exception. He therefore, as a friend to the integrity of the kingdom, and an enemy to the Repeal of the Union, thought it most desirable not to exasperate, the people of Ireland by
 743
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  wished to know, whether, in consequence of the understanding that had taken place the other day, he was now to bring up all his petitions on the subject of slavery, as he had a great number.
 Mr. Lefroy  observed, that no civil remedy was in any respect afforded by the 27th of George 3rd. It was merely intended to apply to criminal offences and outrages against property; and that being the case, he would beg to know whether, as long as tithes existed, their possessors should not enjoy the protection of the law, as well as other individuals. Were the clergy to be outlawed, and was their property to be left exposed to violence and outrage? The effect of the introduction of such a saving clause into the Bill would be to encourage the peasantry of Ireland to resist the payment of tithes by illegal combinations and acts of violence and outrage. They were all aware that an unfortunate misinterpretation had been already put by the people in Ireland upon the words "extinction of tithes" which had been employed in that House, and he
 761
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the hon. Alderman had hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be enabled to repeal this tax. Whether that noble Lord would do so he did not know, but this he knew, that the House was able to prevent him having this tax any longer, and to his mind the way to teach the noble Lord how to do without the tax, was not to let him have it. Here was another instance, added to the many he had brought forward the other day, where the poor were taxed in a much greater degree than the rich. Even in the common article of soap, which might be made for twopence-halfpenny a-pound, the poor were made to pay seven-pence or eightpence for it. The poor were made to pay 120 per cent., while the rich only paid fifty. Another article he would mention was paper; why the commonest paper in which the people wrapped their tobacco or sold their sugar paid a duty per lb. equal to the finest gold-edged paper. He should like to know the motive for all this. The noble Lord had ascribed to him on a previous occasion bad motives. For his part he judged of motives by acts; and who could doubt that the partial tax on soap was for the purpose of oppressing the poor, and relieving the rich?
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he could not sit and hear any hon. Member state that the Jews had a right to the privileges that were now demanded for them, without asking the House whether it was prepared to do away with the law of the land as laid down by the greatest authorities—whether, in fact, it was prepared to pass a law that would abolish Christianity in England? It was stated that the Jews were peaceable men, but it was well known that that peacefulness of conduct was assumed for a particular motive, to which he would not further allude at that time. He called upon hon. Members not to be led away by this cry of liberality, nor to allow those who daily blasphemed Christ to have all the privileges which had been secured to Christians in this Christian country.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that how far members for counties might be justified in supporting the prayer of petitions coming from the boroughs in the county they represented was, in his opinion, a question that had much better not be discussed, for every Member had a right do on that point as he liked. With respect to the matter of the petition, his constituents wished as much as any set of men could do that negro slavery should be abolished, but they had expressed their desire, and he thought it was reasonable before that abolition took place, to know whether the Negroes were fed worse or clothed worse than his constituents were. His (Mr. Cobbett's) opinion was, and he knew something of the matter, that they were
 730
 Mr. Cobbett  rose, and said, that as he had not had an opportunity during the debate on the Bill to express his sentiments on it, he should take advantage of the present opportunity. He was sorry to think that the Bill had been engendered in the heart of an Englishman, and brought into that House by the hands of an Englishman, but he should deem himself unworthy of existence if he did not stand up and declare the horror he felt at the introduction of such a measure. He had been lately looking into—though, indeed, it was not necessary for him to look into—for he well remembered the deeds of Pitt, and Sidmouth, and Perceval, and Castlereagh, but the present measure had an infamous pre-eminence over all the deeds of all those men. In the first place, under this Bill military tribunals were to supersede the ordinary Courts of Justice. They had heard a great deal of Whitefeet and Blackfeet, and midnight outrages, and murders; but when he looked into the Bill, he found that the military tribunals were not confined to the trial of the Whitefeet and Blackfeet. Those red-coat tribunals were to decide in cases of libel, without the intervention of a Judge or a Jury. The Whitefeet, and the midnight robbers and assassins, were not the writers of libels? This part of the Bill, therefore, could not be intended for the Whitefeet, and the midnight robbers and assassins. Comparing this Bill with others to which it bore any resemblance, he found in it one very remarkable omission. The Members of that House Were not protected. It had always hitherto been usual to insert a clause, stating that if any Member of that House was charged or suspected of having committed any of the offences
 732 733 734 735 736 Habeas Corpus 737 738 739 in propria bonâ fide 740 Question 741 742 Question
 Mr. Finn  thought that his Majesty': Ministers should avow what the real object of the Bill was. If they said one thing and meant another, the consequence would be most injurious. The right hon. Secretary had talked of extinguishing
 748
 Mr. Finn  did not want the hon. Alderman behind him to apprise him that a wealthy company having land in Derry was on good terms with its tenantry. It received 84,000 l l l l l 729
 Mr. Finn  would quote the case of the city of Kilkenny, which remained perfectly tranquil at a time when the county was disturbed, and had been proclaimed by the Marquess Wellesley; the county of the city, however, remaining unproclaimed.
 Mr. William Roche  was of opinion, that it would be advisable to convene the county at large, and to take the sense of those assembled, before the Lord-lieutenant proclaimed it to be in a disturbed state.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  certainly understood that when the first petition on any subject was presented, every hon Member who had similar petitions was to lay them on the Table of the House.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  observed, that the first petition which had been presented by the hon. Member was for the observance of the Sabbath. He submitted to the House, whether, under the understanding alluded to, all petitions on that subject ought not to be presented first?
 The Speaker  considered that the course pursued by the hon. member for Middlesex was extremely fair. For his own part, he was not aware of the understanding alluded to by the hon. Member, for presenting no petitions but those which related to the observance of the Sabbath.
 The Speaker  observed, that, unfortunately for the statements of the hon. Baronet, the first petition presented by the hon. member for Middlesex was not for the observance of the Sabbath.
 The Speaker  trusted that hon. Members would not occupy the whole of the morning upon a discussion which could end in nothing. He certainly was not aware of
 725
 The Solicitor General  was surprised that the hon. and learned Member should object to give that power to officers of the Army which he was not unwilling to trust to police officers and constables.
 The Solicitor General  certainly considered the Lord Lieutenant could not proclaim a district as the clause originally stood, merely because tithe was not paid, and that the Amendment would certainly encumber the clause, and might give rise to the inference suggested by the right hon. Baronet. Undoubtedly, in his opinion, the clause would stand much better without the Amendment.
 The Solicitor General  was of opinion that the notice given in this clause was sufficient. When a fact so important as the proclamation of a disturbed district took place in one part of the county, would it not be communicated with all the speed of horses to every other part of the county?
 Sir John Sebright , though he did not wish to make any personal allusions, could not, how-over, help observing that the attention of the House from the commencement of the Session had been almost entirely engrossed by Irish questions. He would second the recommendation of the hon. Member who spoke last, which he advised Ministers to act upon with firmness. Not a day, he continued, passed without his receiving complaints from his constituents and others respecting the want of firmness shown by Ministers in yielding points of the kind then under consideration. By such weakness it was that the public time was wasted.
 Sir Richard Keane  defended the conduct of the Magistracy of that part of the country which he represented. There were four of those Magistrates then about him; and he would say, speaking of them generally, that a body of men more anxious lo do their duty never existed.
 Sir Richard Keane  would move as an amendment, to insert the words in the first part of the clause to the effect, that in all cases where it was deemed necessary to apply for the proclamation of any county of a city or county of a town, the Lord-lieutenant of the county and at least six Magistrates, should certify that the insubordination of the district called for the putting in force the provisions of the Act.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  presented a Petition from the Jews residing in and near Manchester for the removal of the disabilities under which they laboured, and praying that they might be enabled to enjoy the same rights and privileges as their Christian fellow-subjects. Also one from the inhabitants of Manchester, very numerously signed, to the same effect.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman had drawn this Amendment after the last part of the last clause had been agreed to, he would probably have added a sentence, calling on the Lord Lieutenant to declare that he had not proclaimed a county for non-payment or refusal of payment of rent, county cess, or parochial rates. This was rendered necessary by the construction of the last clause, which declared that the Lord Lieutenant should not proclaim a county "merely for non-payment of tithes." As he was not to make proclamation for such a reason "merely," it followed of course by implication that he might do so for other causes. The hon. and learned Gentleman must certainly mean to impose
 769
 Sir Robert Peel  called the attention of the Committee to the words of the clause then under consideration; which required a "district to be in a state of disturbance and insubordination" before the Lord Lieutenant could apply to it the provisions of the Act; and then called upon the Committee to say whether it was not a manifest absurdity to add to that clause that the Lord Lieutenant should not proclaim the district merely because tithe was not paid within it. Did it mean that if cess or rent or any other payment was withheld, except that of tithe, that the Lord Lieutenant was to proclaim the district? The right hon. Baronet called upon the Solicitor General to say whether such would not be the natural inference, and whether such an amendment was not ridiculous and absurd.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had no objection to the first part of the Amendment, but he trusted that his hon. friend would allow the second part to stand over till they came to the 17th clause of the Bill.
 Lord Althorp  objected to the Amendment, because he thought it both invidious and unnecessary—invidious, because it proceeded upon the suspicion that the Lord Lieutenant would improperly exercise the powers intrusted to him by the Bill; and unnecessary, because it would be in the power of any Gentleman, if he thought fit, to move for the production of such a return as the hon. and learned Member described.
 Lord Althorp  said, that to the whole of the first part of the Amendment of the hon. member for the county of Wexford, he did not entertain the slightest objection; he alluded to that part of the proviso which enacted that it should not be lawful for the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to apply the powers conferred by this Act to any county or district merely in consequence of non-payment of tithes. With respect to the other part of the hon. Member's Amendment, the doubt, he felt, was as to the misinterpretation it might be liable to. He thought that that part of the Amendment of his hon. friend would be liable to be so interpreted as to do away entirely with the 11th clause of the 27th George 3rd. He did not agree with his hon. friend opposite in the construction which he put upon that clause. It appeared to him that it only applied to anything done in the way of forcible resistance or obstruction to the collection or valuation of tithes, and it surely would not be denied, if violence was offered to a person in the performance of a legal Act which he had a right to do, and a forcible obstruction was raised against him, that he should be protected against the effects of violence and outrage. That was the object of the 11th clause of the 27th George 3rd. It referred to a forcible obstruction in the execution of legal rights, and it did not refer to any measures against the payment of tithes, for which a remedy could be obtained by civil bill process. He was ready to say, as he had said before, that if, by any possibility, the Bill could be applied, in the plain common sense of the words, to the enforcement of the collection of tithes, he would be most ready to agree to any provision that would prevent its being so employed. But the Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman was entirely unnecessary, for it was intended by Government, as he (Lord Althorp) had already stated, to propose a plan to the House which would render it quite impossible that this Bill could be applied to the collecting of tithes. The plan which would be proposed by Government would be one
 759 760
 Lord Althorp  said, that he was perfectly convinced that at that hour it was not fitting to order the Chairman to report
 775
 Lord Althorp  said, this proposition, if agreed to, would only have the effect of dividing the responsibility, which he wished to remain as it was originally settled by the Bill.
 Lord Althorp  denied, that the interpretation of the learned Gentleman with reference to the 27th George 3rd was correct. If the hon. Member would read the particular clause, he would find that it was directed against" any unlawful combination to prevent the collection of tithes, or any forcible obstruction to the clergyman, or any violence used towards him in collecting tithes." The only point in which tithes came within the purview of the clause was, where an illegal conspiracy was entered into for the purpose of preventing the payment of tithes. The construction of the hon. Member was not to be found in the common sense of the clause.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if outrages were committed, they should be punished because they were outrages, not because they had reference to tithe.
 Lord Althorp  reminded the hon. Member that this discussion was wholly irrelevant.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it was impossible for the Government to suspend the laws for the enforcement of tithes.
 Lord Althorp  said, it would be unnecessary for the hon. Member to propose such an Amendment, because his Majesty's Ministers had in contemplation to propose a measure, which while it would reserve the rights of the clergy, and secure to them what fairly belonged to them, would relieve the government of Ireland from the necessity of enforcing the measure passed during last Session for the commutation of tithes. He hoped that the proposition was one which would secure to the clergy their rights, and he was sure it would save the people from any unnecessary prosecution for arrears which might be due by them.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day, for the House to resolve itself into Committee on the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill.
 Lord Morpeth , in rising to support the prayer of the petition, observed, that it might be considered obtrusive on the part of Members for counties to come forward to support the prayer of a petition from boroughs in that county; but he considered that if, at any time, the Member for a county was justified in coming forward for this purpose, it was on the presentation of a petition from the most important town in the West Riding of Yorkshire—a community that had been more prominent in their opposition to negro slavery than any other part of the British empire.
 Mr. Thomas Attwoodsaid , that he should take this opportunity of moving, "that this House do suspend all further proceedings on the Irish Bill until the remedial measures proposed by his Majesty's Ministers be passed into a law."
 Mr. Stanley  said, he knew not what might be the private information received by the hon. member for Birmingham from Ireland, which induced him to suppose that that country was returning to a state of tranquillity; but the information which he received officially was, that the disturbed districts, instead of becoming quieter, were becoming more and more disturbed; and that, although great and sudden changes had taken place, with regard to the intimidation of witnesses and Jurors at these Assizes, so that some convictions had taken place, still the outrages were actually on the increase; and he was satisfied that every day they delayed to pass this Bill, they were rendering life and property less secure in that country. On that House, if it further delayed the measure, might be charged, not the loss of life, but the evil of increased outrages. He trusted, that the same reasons which had induced the House to consent to the introduction of a measure that must be repugnant to the feelings of every man, would induce them to support it now that it was introduced, and pass it with the least possible delay; so that they might give to Ireland, as soon as possible, the
 830
 Mr. Stanley : The Committee was now arrived at that clause of the Bill which gave to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in the proclaimed districts, with those additions of power which they had given to him in districts not proclaimed, to prohibit or suppress any meetings deemed by him to be dangerous to the public peace, or inconsistent with the due administration of the law—the power of not allowing any meeting for petitioning Parliament, or for discussing any alleged grievance in Church or State, without he received a previous written notice of ten days, specifying its object, and without he had given his assent to it. In framing this clause, Government had drawn this distinction between the proclaimed and the non-proclaimed districts, that, whereas in the districts not proclaimed, the Lord Lieutenant was to have the power of suppressing by this proclamation only such assemblies as he deemed to be dangerous to the public peace, or inconsistent with the due administration of the law, he was, in the proclaimed districts, to have the power of assuming that any large congregation of persons for the purpose of petitioning Parliament or discussing any alleged grievance, in which inflammatory topics might, and probably would be used, was  primâ facie 833
 Mr. O'Connell  defied the right hon. Secretary, or any man else, to point out any disturbed district in which political meetings had been held. In those districts where political meetings had been held there had been no disturbances. There was no place in Ireland, or indeed in the United Kingdom, so peaceable as the city of Dublin, which had been the very focus of what was called political agitation. He was not inclined to recommend the holding of public meetings in the proclaimed districts, as they were calculated to create collisions between the army and the people. He objected to the words of the clause, "and the consent in writing of the Lord Lieutenant or other chief governor or governors for holding such meeting, signified by such Chief or under Secretary." These words he considered altogether unnecessary, and he would move that they be omitted, though he would not take the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that before they went into the consideration of this clause, he felt it incumbent on him to lay before the House several material provisions that had been resolved on, which, without diminishing the efficiency of the Bill, would meet some of the objections which hon. Members connected with Ireland had made to it. Those provisions were proposed in order to render military tribunals as little liable to be abused as possible. Two or three of those modifications had been already mentioned to the House. The first was, the removal from Courts-martial of officers of low standing and little experience. This was done by not permitting any officers to sit on Courts-martial who had not obtained the rank of Captain. He would announce another more important alteration. Great objections had been made to the officers of those tribunals, that their duty would lead them to seek out and apprehend culprits, and after being harassed night and day, they might, it was asserted, come to those tribunals deficient in that impartiality and coolness
 835 836 837 838
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if he had been aware of the statement which had been made by the right hon. Secretary, he should have brought down his letter-book, in order that he might show the right hon. Gentleman and the House the letter from Sir Edward Crosbie's son, on which he had founded his statement. He begged to ask the right hon. Secretary the name of the son who had written to him?
 Mr. Stanley  could not then say, but he should be able to state to-morrow. It however was not of much consequence, as the same statement had been sent to several of the Irish papers, and appeared in them. The writer, he believed, stated
 839
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the letter which he received was dated "Liverpool," and signed "Edward Crosbie," and that it contained a letter from the rev. Archibald Douglas, rector of Kilcullen, in Kildare. It mentioned that the writer was in distress. As Mr. Douglas was a clergyman high in the Church, and the brother-in-law of an Irish Peer, he thought that he was justified in making use of it; and it was impossible for him to suspect that it did not contain a true account of the writer.
 Mr. Stanley  did not, in the slightest degree, impeach the statement of the hon. and learned Member. The writer had, however, requested of him to take an opportunity of making the statement which the letter contained, in his place in that House, and he had accordingly done so. He did not know any of the parties concerned, further than from the circumstance in question.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not have said one word had it not been for the observations of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, and of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Colchester. He totally disclaimed the advice which his hon. and learned friend had given him to relax in his hostility to this Bill. He should feel himself guilty of a dereliction of positive duty were he to permit a single guard of the Constitution to be trampled under foot upon the tyrant's plea of necessity—a necessity, by-the-by, which did not exist—without appealing to the British public against the atrocious law which warranted it. As it was now to be proposed to the House to pass a clause abolishing the trial by Jury, and substituting the trial by Court-martial in its stead, he would not listen to any amendment, but would try the question fairly upon the principle. He would divide the Committee upon this point—"Trial by Jury, or no trial by Jury; Court-martial, or no Court-martial." In one instance he would confess that he was obliged to confirm the information which the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had just given the Committee; but in another instance he must totally contradict it. He denied, that outrages had recently increased in Ireland; but he was sorry to say that his information led him to believe that a worse spirit now existed in Ireland than had ever existed there before.; a spirit of detestation against all the upper classes now influenced the lower classes of Ireland, because they supposed that their superiors had entered
 831
 Mr. Tayleure  observed, that some of the remarks made on the subject of those military tribunals appeared to have excited considerable irritation. If it had been asserted, or insinuated, that an English officer would act from a feeling of prejudice, such a remark ought, undoubtedly, to raise a feeling of indignation. At the
 845
 The Earl of Darlington  took a different view of the subject from that taken by the hon. Member who had last addressed the House. He was not surprised at the jealousy exhibited upon the subject of Trial by Jury, but thought if they were to have Courts-martial at all, their efficacy should not be frittered away. The alterations introduced by the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) appeared to him to render the Courts-martial nugatory. He did not think that these latter tribunals should be so far assimilated to Juries as to require anything approaching unanimity in their decisions. He admitted, that no class was more respectable than that from which Jurors were usually taken, but they were of a different class from officers in the army, who would not be so disposed to yield up their opinions to others, as would be the case with individual Jurors.
 850
 Sir John Dalrymple  said, that he did not remember to have heard it asserted on any former occasion that Courts-martial were under the influence of the Horse Guards. The gallant Officer (Major Beauclerk) had said, that he did not allude to individuals, but still it was the duty of every officer who had the interest of the service at heart, to protest against such statements when he knew them to be unfounded. It was very hard upon the Ministers now to blame them for the introduction of alterations which they had made at the suggestion of hon. Members on both sides of the Mouse, who had proposed them as improvements. No man could entertain stronger objections than he did to this measure; and it was only within these few days that he could bring himself to lend it his support. He felt convinced, however, from what he had heard as to the state of Ireland, in the course of the discussions upon this Bill, that it was necessary to intrust the Government with strong power.
 Colonel Peel  reprobated the assertion that Courts-martial were in any way influenced by the Horse Guards. It was not fair to draw any inference as to punishment in the army from what the gallant Officer (Major Beauclerk) witnessed in Halifax, for that gallant Officer then belonged to the worst regulated regiment in the whole service. The hon. Member had betrayed the greatest ignorance as to the constitution of Courts-martial. It was impossible that punishments could be at all times equal in severity for offences of the same kind. When it became necessary to make an example for the purpose of preserving discipline, a severer punishment might be inflicted than was usually apportioned to similar offences. He was as averse as it was possible to be to flogging in the army, and nothing could induce him to be reconciled to it but a conviction of its indispensable necessity. The gallant Officer had on a former evening when he was not present, stated that on Courts-martial junior officers were known to yield up their opinions to those of officers of superior rank. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had said, that Courts-martial, and officers of regiments generally, were sometimes influenced
 854
 Mr. Wynn  had not hitherto expressed an opinion as to this Bill, and he should not trespass on the attention of the House, did he not feel called upon to make some observations on the clause under consideration. He was aware that it was necessary for him to confine himself to the details of the Bill; but he begged leave to state, in a few words, his opinion as to the propriety of introducing this measure. When he remembered the arguments adduced by hon. Gentlemen on both sides—when he recollected the statement of his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland—fortified as it was by the statement of his noble friend, the member for Nottingham, (who had given, on this subject, the most important information) he felt bound to express his concurrence with the opinion of the majority of the House—that it was absolutely necessary to intrust the Government with the large additional powers they demanded. With respect to the particular clause under
 856 857 858
 Mr. Stanley  had listened with the deepest attention to his right hon. and learned friend. He need not say, that for his right hon. friend's character he entertained the highest respect. It was not only, however, his respect for his right hon. and learned friend's private character that made him regret to find
 860 861 862 863 864
 Captain Berkeley  read a letter which he had received from a Magistrate of the county of Kilkenny, corroborating the statement of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. That Gentleman stated distinctly that the loyal attended the present Assizes at Kilkenny, from a wish to suppress the disturbances in their county, and the disloyal from a desire to make the country believe that there was no intimidation practised upon them. He was himself an ardent lover of freedom, but he was convinced
 865
 Mr. O'Connell  felt, that he ought not to allow this question to go to a vote without saying a word in reply to the noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House. He wished that he could entertain a hope that Ministers had heard enough that evening from the hon. and learned member for Edinburgh, the hon. and learned member for Kirkcudbright, and from the hon. and learned member for Monaghan (who knew a great deal of Ireland), to induce them to suspend their opinions upon this clause till to-morrow. He was not the friend, neither did he pretend to be the friend, of the present Ministers; but he was sure, that their soundest friend would concur
 868 869 870
 Mr. Stanley , in reply to the noble Lord's reason for withdrawing his support from this Bill, would only state, that this clause was, with the exception of two words, which did not in the slightest degree affect its import, in precisely the same shape in which it was originally introduced into the House.
 Colonel Davies  said, it was with much reluctance that he found himself compelled to support the Bill, in consideration of its absolute necessity. He could not, however, suppress his conviction, that if Government had resorted to the vigorous exercise of their power at the time when these unfortunate disturbances commenced, there would not have been the slightest necessity for the proposed measure. The Ministers
 843 totidem verbis 844 l
 Lord Hotham  referred to the assertion of the last speaker, that Courts-martial were always under the influence of the Horse Guards, and left it to the House to decide whether what the hon. Member advanced had at all established his position. The subject of military flogging-had been improperly and unfairly introduced into the discussion, especially as the seventeenth clause of the Bill expressly prohibited the Courts-marlial from inflicting that species of punishment. He did not mean to complain that Ministers had thought it right to make very recent alterations in the Bill, the nature of which had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman; but at the same time, he did not think that they would make the measure more palatable to its opponents, while they would materially impair its efficiency by rendering the influenee of the military tribunals less powerful, and less extensive. It now appeared that a number of officers of rank were to be sent over to Ireland to aid in the trial of offenders, but it had not been stated in what way they were to aid those trials—whether they were to preside, or whether they were to form the whole body of the Court. Upon this point, therefore, further information was necessary before the House could decide upon the probable extent of their utility. At all events, he thought, since the militray tribunals were not in fact Courts-martial, that the (to some) objectionable term "Court-martial" might be omitted in the Bill. The constitution of the tribunal was in several respects different from that of a Court-martial, and it was a point not unworthy consideration, what effect might be produced upon soldiers by this new institution, which applied a different mode of administering the law to one class of the King's subjects to that which was applied to another. He (Lord Hotham) feared the effect of so wide a
 852
 Major Beauclerk  opposed the clause. The members of Courts-martial were all more or less under the influence of the Horse Guards [ No, no no "It is impossible." 851
 Colonel Perceval  was almost inclined to vote against this clause, since the mode in which the constitution of the Courts-martial had been altered by requiring five of its members to be unanimous, would render it difficult for the Government to render any effectual protection to the inhabitants of Ireland.
 Mr. Rotch  said, that it was the practice of Courts-martial, when the prisoner made any objection, to clear the Court, whilst the Judge Advocate had the privilege of replying to the objection in secret, and in the absence of the prisoner and his advisers. He thought, that should be guarded against, and he would move this proviso, "Provided, always, that no legal objection or other objection to the proceedings of the Court-martial shall be gone into, in the absence of the party accused, and his legal adviser." That would prevent any such practice under this Act.
 Mr. Harvey  could not agree to the suggestion of the hon. member for Birmingham. He called upon Irish Members to withdraw their hostility to this Bill; and, by so doing, propitiate the feelings of the people of England, who all felt alike upon the subject of their opposition. He sincerely hoped, that the hon. Members who had so ably and so honestly opposed the Bill hitherto would cease their opposition, and allow it to pass, in order that the House might proceed to the discussion of those countless subjects on which the public mind was so stedfastly and so anxiously fixed. Let the responsibility of the measure be upon the heads of those who advised it, and by whose instrumentality it had passed into a law.
 Mr. Edward Curteis  could not admit that the Horse Guards influenced, in any way, the decision of Courts-martial. He believed if the Horse Guards attempted any thing of the kind, these Courts would have come to the very opposite conclusion. He had himself served in three different regiments, and in all there had not been so much punishment inflicted during the whole time he served, as had been exercised in the single regiment mentioned by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Shaw  felt himself in a considerable difficulty with respect to the clause then under consideration. He was committed to its principle, and felt at that moment as strongly as ever the urgent and undeniable necessity of the measure introduced by his Majesty's Ministers; but what he feared was, that the measure would be inoperative from alterations made since its introduction, and from the general policy towards Ireland with which it would be accompained. While he fully agreed with his hon. and learned friend the member for Monaghan (Mr. Perrin), that a departure so violent as the present from the established laws and Constitution must be either absolutely necessary or grievously unjustifiable, he also was of opinion, that to make a complete case of justification they must be satisfied that the substitute
 866 867
 Mr. Sinclair  referred to the exemption of political offenders from trial by Courts-martial, and declared that it appeared to him a hard and unjust measure, to give one sort of tribunal to the rich and another to the poor. This was binding the poor in chains and the rich in cobwebs. With respect to the supposed necessity for the measure, he had seen no proof that the ordinary tribunals were inadequate to the enforcement of the law. He would vote against the clause.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  also entered his protest against being interdicted by any hon. Member from opposing the present Bill. His opposition was in order to have that Bill amended, and save the present Government from the odious situation they would be placed in, if it passed with its obnoxious clauses untouched. If it so passed, the upper classes in Ireland would feel themselves most sensibly wounded, in
 832
 Mr. Warburton  was not at all afraid lest by this Bill the soldier should be converted too much into a civilian, for he thought the effect of it would be the very reverse. A noble Lord had said, that Courts-martial were more enlightened tribunals than the ordinary Courts; but if such were the case, which he denied, still there was a strong and a vulgar prejudice, in England at least, in favour of a man being tried by his peers. A Lord liked to be tried by Lords, and a peasant felt more confidence in a Jury consisting of persons of his own station. It was true, that a sentence equally just might proceed from a military as from a civil tribunal; but it was not sufficient that the sentence should be equally just; it ought also to appear to the people to be likely to be equally just, in order that there might be general confidence in the tribunal. He doubted whether this confidence would be reposed in a military court; or, rather, he was satisfied that it would not. He asked why persons accused before Courts-martial were not to be allowed the benefit of counsel? In a marching regiment, where for military offences it was necessary to attain  fesinum remedium 853
 Mr. Warburton  moved an Amendment, "That no verdict of acquittal should be revised by the same or any other Court-martial; and that no sentence of condemnation should be increased in severity by the Lord Lieutenant or any other person"—The first part of which was agreed to, the latter negatived.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he had hitherto given his support to Ministers on this measure, but now they had come to the Court-martial clause he found it impossible for him to support it; indeed, he meant, however painful it was to him, to oppose it, and he begged leave to state shortly on what ground he opposed it. The question was, had a necessity for so severe a measure been shown? This was by far the weakest part of the Bill. No attempt had been made to answer the evidence adduced, or the powerful arguments used by the hon. and learned member for Dublin against this clause. He (Mr. Abercromhy) really could find neither such amount of intimidation, nor such systematic efforts to carry it into execution, to satisfy his mind that they were justified in pronouncing the ordinary tribunals of the country inefficient. Nor could he agree with the argument which he had often before heard used, that when you over-stepped the limits of the Constitution, you should do it boldly. He confessed, that though he had heard attempts to justify that doctrine, they had
 859
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Perrin  could not give a silent vote on this part of the Bill. In his conscientious judgment he believed it to be unnecessary; in his conscientious judgment, he was convinced that it not only would not effect any good, but would be productive of the greatest mischiefs. He gave his Majesty's Ministers all due credit for the ground on which they brought the Bill forward placing their measure on the only basis of necessity; and he agreed, that, if they made out this case of necessity, if they established the fact that without the Bill there would be no protection for life and property, and no means of supporting social order, they were entitled to the Bill, or rather, not they, but the people were entitled to it. But the question was, whether this clause and the provisions connected with it were thus indispensably requisite? This alleged necessity was grounded upon evidence offered to the House, showing that Jurors had been intimidated, witnesses threatened; and it was therefore contended that these extraordinary tribunals must be resorted to. It was admitted, on all hands, that Courts-martial were a remedy which ought not to be resorted to, without absolute necessity called for them, as they were both arbitrary and unconstitutional. If this necessity could be proved, then Ministers had made out their case; but if it could not be proved, the measure was most grievously tyrannical. After giving due credit to all the statements relative to the alleged intimidation
 846 847
 Mr. O'Ferrall , in reference to the letter read by the preceding speaker, asked the House what opinion they ought to form of the judgment of a Magistrate who set himself up as a judge of the loyal and the disloyal in the county wherein he resided. If the Juries in Ireland had been base enough to shrink from doing their duty, he would have granted Ministers the power which this clause proposed to give them; but the contrary was the fact, and he must, therefore, pause before he confided to them a power which nothing but the most urgent and palpable necessity could justify. He would pass this Bill without the Court-martial clause until the end of the present Session, and if at that time it were proved, that the Juries of Ireland had not performed their duty manfully and honestly by their country, he would grant them this clause too; but he looked upon it as monstrous, to propose to abolish the Trial by Jury and to erect Courts-martial in Ireland for the trial of civil offences, whilst Parliament was sitting and Juries and witnesses were performing their duty. Impressed with this conviction, he was determined to give his most strenuous opposition to this clause.
 Mr. Sheil  denied, that the right hon. Gentleman had answered the right hon. Gentleman, the member for Edinburgh, whose opinion, expressed in opposition to his party, would make a great impression upon the House. The right hon. Secretary asked to be trusted with this authority upon a pledge that it would not be abused; but he (Mr. Shell) was not ready to intrust arbitrary power to any one, unless a complete case was made out. Was the House convinced that the Lord-lieutenant or the right hon. Secretary would remain in power till Autumn? They were, perhaps, about to leave the Bill as a legacy to Tory successors. Was it just, if he (Mr. Sheil) inflamed the people by his speeches, if they were excited by libels and seditious newspapers, that he and others, who were the causes, should be tried by Juries, and the wretched peasantry only be subjected to Courts-martial?
 Mr. Rigby Wason  moved an Amendment, requiring unanimity from all the members of the Courts-martial. It was as follows, "Provided always that no person shall be convicted under this Act, or any sentence passed on any person who shall be so convicted, unless the officers composing such Court-martial, shall unanimously agree in their verdict, and shall afterwards unanimously approve of the sentence awarded by the court for such offence."
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  coincided with the remarks that were made by the two last hon. and learned Members. He reprobated the idea of allowing any bill to pass without the House making it as unobjoctionable as possible. The House was not justified in throwing the responsibility of the measure on the Ministers if the House could improve it. It was their duty to amend the Bill, and the time for doing so was whilst it was passing through the Committee.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose to oppose the whole of the clause. He should fail in doing justice to himself if he did not state, that he considered the introduction of that part of the Bill as entirely hostile to all the principles of the Constitution. It took away the trial by Judge and Jury—that boast and safety of every Englishman. He admitted, that a case might be made out of such urgent necessity as to justify the Government in doing away Trial by Jury for a time, but the consideration of such a case was not then imposed on them. He opposed the clause, in the first place, because there was no precedent for such a measure. It was true, that Martial-law had been introduced into Ireland during the rebellion, but it was only during the rebellion, which could supply no precedent for the present measure, for there was no instance of its being introduced at a time when there was not only no insurrection, but a state of profound peace. He, therefore, thought it his duty to oppose it on the score of precedent. It had been asked what tribunal could be adopted in place of Courts-martial? But it was unnecessary to consider that question, because a case had not been made out which warranted them in departing from the ordinary law tribunals. Not a letter, not a fact, not even the statement
 840 Stanley: 841 842 l
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, reverting to his Amendment, he must say, that he entertained the strongest fears that the remedial measures for Ireland would never become the law of the land; but that, as he had said before, was not his only reason for proposing his Amendment. They had now been assembled for nine weeks, and all that they had done in that time had been to get into the Committee upon this Bill. The great work of English legislation had been totally neglected for it; and, in his opinion, there was greater danger at present of public disturbances taking place in England, than there was of public disturbances taking place in Ireland. He knew that there was great discontent among many millions of our own countrymen, and knowing that, he called upon Ministers to pause in their proceedings upon this Bill, and to turn some part of their consideration to other subjects, besides that of applying coercive measures to Ireland. He thought that Ministers could entertain other subjects better now than they could a month ago, as every arrival from Ireland tended to prove that that country was now quiet. Was it not notorious that ten of the persons accused of the murder of Mr. Leonard were now in custody? Was it not notorious that Mr. Steele—by some deemed an agitator, by others one of the pacificators of Ireland—was now submitting to a legal prosecution? Did they not read in every newspaper, that at all the Assizes in Ireland business was going on well? Did they not read, that the Judges in their different charges, were congratulating the
 829 pari passu
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, when he spoke of bringing on the question immediately, if the nature of the plan in contemplation of the Government was not then stated, he had used expressions which conveyed more than he meant to say. He only in tended to obtain from the Government a pledge that a measure should be speedily introduced, and he trusted that it would be safe and satisfactory. He was content to rely, in the meantime, on the assurance of the noble Lord, and should, therefore, withdraw his Motion for the present.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  replied, that no man was more conscious than he was how much better it would be for the subject to be introduced by Government, and he was willing to relinquish his Motion upon two conditions—First, if Ministers were prepared with a plan for the entire and immediate extinction of slavery; second, if they would name a day when they would state that plan to the House. He might be thought very obstinate, and he was far from wishing to impede the measures of Government, but he well knew his fate if he consented to abandon the ground he at present occupied. Until June next there was not a vacant day in the Order-book, and, after Easter, the great questions of the Bank of England, of the East-India Charter,
 827
 The Speaker , interrupting the hon. Member, informed him, that he could not regularly propose an amendment, upon the question of reading the Order of the Day; he must wait till the noble Lord made the Motion to go into the Committee.
 Mr. Rolfe  wished to state the reason for his vote. He had been at first much and decidedly opposed to the clause, but, at length, after listening to the debates, he had become a reluctant convert to it, and meant to give it his support. He was prepared for the taunts implied in the cheers of hon. Members opposite, but he knew no silliness of folly equal to, and no cowardice greater, than that of persevering in error for the fear of being thought afraid. His conscience dictated the course he meant to pursue. The hon. Gentlemen opposite thought, by their taunts, and almost by their threats of asking what the people would think, to deter Members from their duty. Those who supported
 848 a priori 849 l l l
 Lord Althorp  moved, that the House resolve itself into a Committee.
 Lord Althorp  moved that the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill be read.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that one of the conditions proposed by the hon. Member was that with which it was impossible he should comply; but with respect to the other—the naming of a day on which the Government proposed to lay their views on this subject before the House, he had no objection to state it. He should name, then, Tuesday, the twenty-third of April. He trusted, that the hon. Member would see that he should not be performing his duty if he were to state more at the present time.
 Lord Althorp  opposed the Amendment. The Ministers had already made great concessions in this clause. They had consented that there should be a majority of seven out of nine, of five out of seven; and that in all cases where the members of the court were limited to five, then that the five should be unanimous.
 Lord Althorp  said, with reference to the question of his hon. friend the member for Bridport, as to the course to be pursued in case the Lord Lieutenant disapproved of the sentence of a Court-martial, his answer was simply this—the Lord Lieutenant would have the power of decreasing the punishment, but not of increasing it. It had been asserted that he (Lord Althorp) not having brought forward any case of outrage against a Juror, had abandoned the argument to be derived from the intimidation of Jurors. That inference did did not follow; it was not necessary to come forward with a case of a personal attack on a Juror in order to justify the inference of intimidation and alarm sufficient to prevent the jurors from discharging their duties properly—an inference fairly deducible from the outrages and disturbances generally prevalent in Ireland, and which rendered it impossible to administer the law with effect by means of the ordinary tribunals. Besides, there might be intimidation even in cases where persons were, perhaps, properly acquitted, as in the Carrickshaugh trials. That case clearly showed intimidation of Jurors. But if the general mass of the people were intimidated, how were Jurors to escape the influence of the general feeling? If the class of farmers from which petty Jurors were selected, experienced the effects of intimidation, Jurors could not be exempt from apprehension. With respect to the present clause, it constituted the main part of the Bill, and if it were omitted, the adequate protection afforded by the quick punishment of offences would be entirely done away. Much had been said about the incompetency of military officers to decide such nice questions as might be submitted to them under the Bill; but he did not conceive that nice legal questions would ever come before them. What they would have to decide was, whether or not a man had been guilty of a particular offence; and it could not be pretended that it would require much legal subtlety or acumen to determine yes or no on a plain matter of fact. He saw nothing in the objection of the noble Lord
 855
 Lord Ingestre  had supported this Bill upon its first introduction, but he was now inclined to oppose it, because this clause had been so altered as to be rendered ineffective.
 Lord Sandon  did not think that the change made in this clause was sufficient to warrant an alteration of sentiment in those hon. Members who had originally given their support to this Bill. He was surprised that it should be considered a matter of difficulty to get five or seven officers to be unanimous in a verdict when they continually saw twelve Jurymen agreeing in their opinion. With respect to the other objection—that political offences were no longer to be tried by Courts-martial, he highly approved of the
 871
 An Hon. Member  thought that the language which had been used by the hon. member for Bath was such as ought not to be countenanced by the House. He had himself, with great reluctance, given his support to his Majesty's Ministers in carrying the measure, and he should continue to do so; at the same time he must say that, if such questions as the abolition of the right of petition, and the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus
 An Hon. Member  likewise deprecated the language which had been used by the hon. member for Bath, language and expressions almost amounting to preaching open rebellion.
 Mr. Strickland  said, that he had a Petition to present of great interest and importance at the present moment, in favour of the Bill
 879 ex-parte
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  was of opinion, that the utmost freedom should be allowed to the commerce of this country. Unless it were relieved from all restrictions and monopolies, it would fall to decay in the competition with other nations. He sincerely trusted that his Majesty's Government would seriously direct attention to this subject, as he was fully convinced by that means alone could the difficulties under which the commercial and shipping interests of the country laboured be removed.
 Colonel Williams  protested against the interminable speeches which were made by hon. Gentlemen upon the Irish Bill—speeches in which nobody was fortunate enough to strike out any new lights, but in which everybody was successful in extinguishing all the old ones. The evil was daily becoming worse and worse.
 Speeches immeasurably long, Seem lengthening as we go.
 Mr. Rolch  said, that at a late hour last night, he had moved, as an Amendment on the last clause, that the party accused should have a right to be present whilst the Judge-advocate, or his deputy, was addressing the Court-martial in reply to any objection, which he (the party accused) might have taken to the proceedings against him. He had then said, that it was customary for the court to be cleared of the prisoner and his friend, as his advocate was called, whilst the Judge-advocate was left with the court to assist its deliberations. On his stating that such was the practice he was contradicted. At that late hour of the night he was unwilling to enter into the argument, especially as his unsupported assertion might not have had much weight against the assertion of Gentlemen who were speaking upon a point connected with the practice of their own profession. He
 885
 Mr. O'Connell  begged pardon of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite; but he had an Amendment to propose, which, in point of form, must be put before that just proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The clause stated, that the Lord-lieutenant should nominate and appoint one of his Majesty's serjeants-at-law, or counsel learned in the law to act as Judge-advocate. The responsibility attached to the appointment of counsel belonged, therefore, to his Majesty's Government. Now, he proposed to leave out the words "counsel learned in the law," and to substitute in their stead "or any barrister-at-law of not less than five years standing." This would give the Government the power of choosing a Judge-advocate almost from the whole bar. To limit their choice to King's Counsel would be inconvenient, for King's Counsel in great business would not give up their ordinary professional emoluments to go into the disturbed districts, and King's Counsel not in great business might not possess those qualifications of capacity which, in cases like the present, were so desirable. An intelligent barrister of less standing would be much preferable to such a man; and, such being his opinion, he should propose the Amendment which he had already described.
 Mr. Wynn  had stated, last night, his objection to this part of the Bill—that objection had not been removed nor diminished by the observations of the noble Lord. His noble friend compared the functions of the Judge-advocate, at a Court-martial, with the duties of the Chairman at a Quarter Sessions, where no counsel was employed for the prosecution. There was a great difference between the situations of the two. The Chairman of a court of Quarter Sessions knew nothing of the charge against the prisoner until it was brought into court, when the deposition taken before a Justice of the Peace was, for the first time, handed up to him. But the Judge-advocate was the legal adviser who must be consulted before the prosecution was commenced. In point of fact, he was the public prosecutor; and whoever acted in that capacity must prepare the charge against the prisoner, and examine the witnesses, to support the prosecution before they came into court. "There was, besides, another duty belonging to the Judge-advocate, as public prosecutor, which rendered it expedient that some such provision as that proposed by the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough should be adopted—he had to make an opening speech, describing the nature of the charge against the prisoner, and detailing the facts upon which it was founded, with these duties, his duties according to this clause would be inconsistent. In the case of General Whitelock, he remembered that the late
 887
 Mr. Stanley  defended the clause as it stood at present. It was not intended that the Judge-advocate should get up for the prosecution the cases which were to be tried before these Courts-martial. His duty would be limited to advising the members of the court upon the evidence that was admissible, the legal bearing of the evidence, and other points of a similar character. He thought that there were other clauses in the Bill which showed that prosecutions instituted before these courts must be instituted by the Government; but if the Bill were not deemed sufficiently distinct upon that point, he should have no objection to introduce a clause providing that there should be a public prosecutor, and that that public prosecutor should not be the Judge-advocate.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought there was no one who would deny that much time—nearly an hour and a half—had been consumed after one o'clock on the preceding morning upon unnecessary discussions. He had no objection to go into the discussion at six, and continue till one. That would surely be enough. Those who were kept for so many hours from all manner of refreshment, were not able, at the end of the time, to bear
 884
 Sir Matthew W. Ridley  did not know-that the hon. and learned Member was in the least degree justified in speaking as if this Bill had not had a full discussion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would not prolong the discussion by proposing a new title for those courts, but if his Majesty's Ministers were at a loss for a name for them, he would suggest that of "revolutionary tribunals."
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed a hope that some provision would be made for having the Courts-martial open courts. There was nothing in the Bill as it stood for or against that course; but he should wish to see it made a subject of positive enactment. He thought also that the counsel or agent of the accused should have power to take notes of the evidence. This was the more necessary, as cases had occurred where it was held by Courts-martial that none had a right to take notes of the evidence but the Judge-advocate. He wanted these two things—that the court should be open, as the Courts of Oyer and Terminer; and that the counsel of the accused should have power to take notes. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved an addition to the clause to that effect.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested that some provision should be introduced so as to make it quite clear, that offences committed before the Bill was passed should not be prosecuted under it.
 Mr. Stanley  thought such a case was already amply provided for by the Bill, but he had no objection to introduce words agreeable to the hon. and learned Gentleman's suggestion. Finally words were introduced, exempting all offences from being prosecuted under this Bill committed subsequent to its passing, and before any district was proclaimed.
 Mr. Ruthven  proposed an Amendment,
 890
 Mr. Stanley  had no other objection to the words, but that they implied the possibility of such tortures being now used as had formerly been employed.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved that the immates should be called "by name."
 Mr. O'Connell  would willingly second that Motion, but there was no chance of its being made, and if made, not the least chance of its being agreed to. At the same time he must say that he was so anxious to put down Whitefootism, that he would add to the efficiency of the present clause by making it compulsory on every farmer and cotter to furnish the police authorities with a list of the male inmates of his dwelling, a duplicate of which should be posted behind his door.
 Mr. Walker  was indeed surprised that a proposition for adding to the coercive measure against the Irish peasant and small farmer should, of all men, have emanated from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, who was ever vaunting himself as being their uncompromising defender.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not be deterred by any absurd calumny from doing his duty to the people of Ireland. It would be a protection to the farmer to have his inmates called over by name, and be would, therefore, move as an amendment upon the So-
 892
 Mr. Stanley  had no objection to the learned Gentleman's suggestion, provided that the whole clause were, in a future stage, so modified as to enable the police to obtain lists of the names of the inmates.
 Mr. O'Connell's  addition of the words "by name," and the Solicitor General's amendment, agreed to.
 Mr. O'Connell.  proposed, as an Amendment, that the penalty should obtain only when it was proved that the arms were "knowingly" in the possession of the individual on whose premises they might be found, the  onus probandi
 Mr. O'Connell : Yet you would make a man liable to the punishment of a misdemeanor without knowing his name.
 Mr. O'Connell  maintained that the constitutional principle was, that the man should be presumed to be innocent till he was proved to have been guilty. In larceny previous ownership, which was always proved on the outset of the charge, was a  primâ facie primâ facie
 Mr. O'Connell  moved that the words "dwelling-house" be inserted in the Clause.
 Mr. O'Connell  defended the propriety of his Amendment, but would have no objection to close with the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and to include arms found in any tenement under the lock of an Irish peasant. The lock of an Irish peasant! The hon. and learned Gentleman knew little of the condition of the Irish peasantry or he would not have used that phrase. The Irish peasant was not rich enough to buy a key, let alone a lock to his cabin. If he were, you would hear no more of these Whitefoot outrages; for having property of his own to preserve, he would not dream of injuring the property of others.
 Mr. O'Connell  called the attention of the Committee to the passage which rendered any person guilty of a misdemeanor who should "by menaces or otherwise," deter any witness from giving evidence. Now there were legitimate menaces, as, for instance, if a man went to another, and informed him, that if he did not give his evidence honestly and fairly, he should be indicted for perjury. Now you ought not to prevent such a caution, or it might be called such a menace, from being made to a witness. The words "by menaces or otherwise" were at once too vague and too comprehensive.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended that there was no menace in telling a witness that if he swore falsely, he should be indicted for perjury. He objected to the words of the clause, because "menace or otherwise" included every kind of dissuasion, even of friendly dissuasion, which one man might employ in conversation with another to prevent him from swearing unintentionally to that, which in point of fact was false, although he did not know it to be so. He had no objection to let the words stand, so far as Jurors were concerned, for menace and persuasion were equally illegal as applied to them; but he could not allow them to stand as applied to witnesses, for in matters of identification it might be necessary to dissuade a person who was mistaken as to the identity of another from swearing as be originally intended.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the argument in the present case amounted to this; you ought not to have an opportunity of doing a thing because you had not done it. The object of the Bill was, to give an opportunity of proving certain circumstances. A witness might refuse to answer a question, because he might, by so doing, criminate himself. This Bill would completely indemnify him, and he could then do so. Of all the extraordinary arguments he had heard, the one then used was the most extraordinary:—"You shall not be allowed to produce proof because you have not already produced it." If ever there was an argument in a circle that was one.
 Mr. Hull  expressed a hope, that the hon. Member would not persevere in opposing its introduction.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that he had a petition to present on this subject, and in favour of such a measure as that for which the hon. Baronet now moved. He would say that, in its prayer, he fully concurred, and therefore he would give his support to the Motion before the House.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that he bad as large a constituency as most hon. Members in that House, a considerable portion of whom were favourable to some measure of the kind proposed by the hon. Baronet.
 Sir Michael Shaw Stuart  supported the Motion. He had several petitions on the subject, which he would present on the first opportunity.
 Captain Yorke  said, that the Bill had been so altered and modified since its introduction, that it could answer no useful purpose whatever. Indeed its only effect would be to add to the irritation of the Irish people, so that the sooner it was thrown into the fire the better,
 Captain Chetwynd  put it to the good feeling of the hon. Member to postpone the Second Reading.
 Captain Chetwynd  could not accede to the wish of the light hon. Gentleman, the right hon. Gentleman must be aware that the Bill in question accused the greater portion of the constituency which he had the honour to represent, of being guilty of bribery and corruption. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware that he had a great responsibility attaching to him on this occasion. The borough of Stafford contained nearly 7,000 inhabitants, and upwards of 1,100 voters; many of whom were men of high character and respectability. It was for the purpose of watching over their rights and privileges, and defending them, as far as he was able, that those individuals had sent him to that House; and he should ill deserve their confidence, did he not oppose a Bill which not only cast imputations on that constituency, but which might hereafter vitally affect their rights and privileges. That was an unprecedented Bill, at this stage of the business arising out of a disputed election. No Committee had been appointed, no case made out, no ground whatever laid for bringing forward a measure of such great moment as that. Some case ought to be made out, before such a Bill should be entertained. The preamble contained an allegation which it was most consistent with the practice of Parliament should be proved before the measure were proceeded with. He was sure that no person could be more anxious than he was, that justice should be done; but in such a case, the utmost caution should be observed before the House appeared to give the slightest sanction to the sweeping allegation contained in that Bill; not the smallest portion of which had yet been proved. The effect of the Bill would be, to give an indemnity to the greater offenders, while those who had been guilty of minor offences would be, exempted from its operation. He hoped that the principle of English law, that every one is innocent till he is proved to be guilty, would be observed. He entreated the House to pause and consider well before proceeding any further with this measure, until not merely a common, but a strong case in support of it be made out.
 Mr. Petre  said, that he had been instructed by his constituents to support this Motion, which he did most cordially. He apprehended that a very erroneous notion had gone abroad with respect to the object of the proposed Bill. It was thought that it was intended by it to curtail the innocent amusements of the poor. Nothing of the kind was intended. The chief object of it, as he understood it, was, to prevent Sunday trading, which tended to so many immoral results, and which was also injurious to the fair trader who was anxious to make the Sabbath what it ought to be, a day of rest.
 Mr. Lamb  hoped, that after the laborious exertions of the Committee which had sat on this subject last year, and after so many petitions had been presented to the House in support, the House would consent to the Motion of the hon. Baronet, which was only a following up of the steps taken in the last Session on that important question.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought that some limitation was necessary. He recollected that four years ago a case of horrid cruelty occurred at a gaol in Dublin. Thumb-screws were applied; bolts were put in the mouth. The evidence of what he stated was on the Table of the House; and the gaoler, who had for these cruelties been found unfit for his office, had been made a stipendiary Magistrate of in a distant county. That showed the baneful ascendancy of faction in Ireland.
 Mr. Hawes  would give his cordial support to the Motion, as one from which he anticipated the most important results to the community. He could state that, amongst his own constituents, a very large body were anxious for the introduction of a measure of the kind to secure the due observance of the Lord's Day.
 Mr. Rotch  withdrew his Amendment.
 Mr. Forster  in answer to the observations of the hon. member for Derbyshire, said, that he had received information which enabled him to state that the respectable part of the constituency of the borough of Stafford, who were free from any imputation of bribery, were decidedly averse to this measure.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the question to be considered was, not whether the constituency of the borough of Stafford, or any other parties, consented to this Bill; but whether there should be an indemnity granted to all persons who might come forward as witnesses before the Committee which was to conduct the inquiry. If it were granted, would not all persons who were hereafter called on to give evidence before an Election Committee, look for an indemnity also? Were they to expect that in every case of a petition against one or both of the sitting Members for any place, an Indemnity Bill
 897
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that no Member of the House was more courteous in giving way in matters where the convenience of the House was concerned than the hon. member for Bridport. He did hope, there-fore, that the hon. Member would not depart from his usual courtesy—by opposing
 901
 Mr. Shaw  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Finch  said, that as the Motion had been prefaced for some weeks by the presentation of a vast number of petitions in its favour, bearing the signature of many thousand persons in all parts of the country, and as there were many others still to be presented on the same subject, he did hope that the House would accede to the Motion of the hon. Baronet. The petitions in its support were, as he had said, signed by many thousands; but he might add with safety that they expressed the sentiments of millions of the inhabitants of these kingdoms, who most anxiously desired that some legislative provision should be made for the due observance of the Lord's Day. These were not the opinions of one class or body of men. The petitions were signed by men of all ranks and denominations throughout the country, who, whatever might be their differences in other respects, were all agreed on this one important point. Under these circumstances he did think, that it was not quite fair in the hon. Member to oppose the Motion for leave to bring it in—a course not usual even in the cases of Bills whose principle might be matter of dispute.
 Mr. Robinson  agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down; but said it was difficult all at once to make such an alteration in the taxes, as would afford the manufacturing classes relief; and the question was, whether, in the meantime, they would permit the present system to go on, and allow the children to labour more than ten hours.
 Mr. Warburton  expressed a hope that the hon. Baronet would not press his Motion at that hour, as many hon. Members had left the House, who had not expected that the Motion would be brought forward that night; but who, if they were aware of it, would, he knew, oppose the Motion even for the introduction of the Bill. The House ought not to be called upon to assent to a proposition of this kind without hearing an explanation of the grounds on which it was brought forward. That explanation the hon. Baronet had not given; and, as it was too late to enter into the subject at that hour, he did hope, that the Motion would not be pressed; if it was, he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Warburton  was not disposed to attach much weight to the evidence before the Committee, which he looked upon as  ex parte
 Mr. Warburton  repeated his objection to the introduction of a measure in the absence of many hon. Members, who would oppose it if they were present. He must also observe, that he expected a declaration of the objects of the Bill before it was submitted to the vote of the House. He would not, however, object, if the hon. Baronet would consent to let the debate on the subject be adjourned. It was not, in his mind, sufficient that they bad the Bill itself instead of a speech. They ought to have also stated to them the grounds on which the Bill rested. The omission of those grounds was getting quietly over the first stage.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the objection to the Billon account of the allegations contained in the preamble not having been proved, might be a very good reason for altering that
 898 primâ facie
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that words like those suggested were proper, to make the Bill accord with the provisions of the Mutiny Act.
 Mr. Warburton  then suggested that, as there were several kinds of Courts-martial, and as it might be difficult to ascertain, by a general reference to the Mutiny Act, how far the provisions of that Act referred to the present tribunals, it might be proper that the special provisions of the Mutiny Act which had reference to the present Act should be especially mentioned.
 Mr. Warburton  did not think that the Judge-advocate should be both prosecutor and Judge, and he should therefore propose an Amendment to that effect. Such an Amendment would prevent his having an opportunity of tampering with witnesses.
 Mr. Warburton  moved, as an Amendment, that the debate be adjourned till tomorrow.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that if the hon. Member who had deprecated the strong language he had used, would only take the trouble of looking into the speeches of Mr. Fox, he would find that terms equally strong had been made made use of by that right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Roebuck , on presenting two Petitions against the Irish Coercion Bill, one from Stockport and the other from Bristol, signed by 4,000 persons, felt called upon to make a few observations, especially as he had not hitherto said anything upon the subject. The Members for Ireland had fought their battle in that House manfully, patiently, and with great calmness and discretion; but that battle, from the votes of last night, was clearly shown to be lost. Having thus noticed what had taken place, he felt called upon to say to those hon. Gentlemen, if they would take his advice, they would leave that House at once, and for ever as it was plain Ireland could not look for justice from an English House of Commons. If the opinions of Parliament were to be judged of by the opinions and votes of its Members last night, justice never could be done to Ireland, and the sooner she was separated from England the better. The people of America, having much less grounds than Ireland had now to complain, had fought nobly for their independence, and had put down till then the indomitable pride of England. Unfortunately Ireland had not followed so glorious an example, and the consequence was, that she had suffered oppressions unequalled by any other country in Europe, with the exception of Poland, The time
 877
 Mr. Hume  could not consider that the hon. Member who opposed the Bill, or any other hon. Member was anxious that bribery should be exercised with impunity. If report were true, there had been wholesale bribery at Stafford, and it was difficult to get at the information necessary to establish the truth of that rumour without an indemnification of witnesses. The object of the Bill was to afford that indemnity; and what objection there could be to it on the part of any hon. Member desirous of punishing bribery and corruption wherever it existed, he could not conceive. What injury would it be to the hon. Member's constituency if they were innocent? It would not make them guilty; and none of the respectable inhabitants of that town could object to it. They must wish that the character of the place should be cleared up, and the imputations, upon investigation, be removed, which had been cast upon it. They must be anxious to have the stain which had so long been upon their town wiped away. In no way could that be done but by passing this Bill. Justice would then be done to Stafford and to the House. He hoped then, that the right hon. Gentleman would press the Motion for the second reading now.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he did not know what were the provisions of the Bill which the hon. Baronet asked leave to introduce, but the subject was one which interested so large a portion of his constituents of all classes, that he should give his support to the Motion, though, at the same time, he should not consider his acquiescence in the introduction and first reading of the Bill as at all pledging him to its provisions when they should become the subject of future discussion. Lender these circumstances he would request of his hon. friend, the member for Bridport, to withdraw his opposition to the Motion.
 Mr. Fryer  said, that no one was more anxious than he was to relieve the misery of these children, and of the working-classes generally; but he was satisfied that the Factories Bill would prove no-
 880
 Mr. Potter , in justification of the cotton manufacturers, begged to say, that the abuses complained of did not rest exclusively with them. When hon. Members spoke of supporting the Bill, they surely did not mean to support all its provisions. Did they mean to support a measure giving the power to Magistrates to commit the masters to prison for twelve months? Did they mean to support a measure which gave Magistrates a power to levy a fine of 200 l
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said that the House had already decided the main principle concerned in this question, by the postponement of the Election Committee appointed to inquire into the petition presented against the return of one of the Members for the borough of Stafford, until a certain period, that was for the purpose of allowing this Bill to pass. It was incumbent on them to read the Bill a second time now, and proceed with it in order that the Committee might go on with its labours.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought the words of which the hon. and learned Gentleman complained to be absolutely necessary to the Bill. Instead of weakening, he would rather strengthen the enactments of this Clause.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped that on a subject in which a very large portion of the community felt so deep an interest, an opposition would not be pressed against the introduction of the measure.
 Mr. Gisborne  thought delay was unnecessary. The great majority of the respectable inhabitants of the borough of
 896
 Mr. Spring Rice  moved the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of this Bill.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that his right hon. friend who brought forward the Bill was not present, and he could not answer for his consent. He might observe, however, that as the objection which was taken to a previous Bill, with regard to particular names having been introduced, had, in this been obviated; the Bill had been made general. The Bill had been extended to all cases, in order to lead more certainly to the detection of bribery and corruption. As the previous Bill was entertained by the House, and reached the step of a second
 895
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that no Amendment which could be made upon this, or any other clause of the Bill could cure the objection which he had to these Courts-martial altogether. The fault was in their constitution. They consisted of officers, whose promotion, whose degradation, whose very bread, depended on their subservience to the views of Government.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to express his entire approbation of what bad fallen from the hon. member for Bath; he, however, wished that the hon. Gentleman, instead of stating that the people of England were the oppressors of Ireland, had stated that those oppressors were the grinding aristocracy of England.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to present a Petition from a number of shipowners of Liverpool, who were proprietors of 100,000 tons of British shipping.
 881 s d d 882
 Mr. Finn  felt called upon to make a few observations upon that part of the hon. member for Bath's speech, in which he recommended the Members for Ireland, who had unsuccessfully opposed the Bill, to withdraw from that House. That was an advice which they could not think of following. They had a duty to perform to the people of Ireland, and to the people of the other parts of the empire, which was, to remain at their posts, and effect all the good they could. The question of taxation would shortly come forward, and it was the duty of every Member to be at his post, to endeavour, if he possibly could, to reduce those taxes that bore so heavily on the people. The question of sinecures and unmerited pensions would also be brought forward, and it behoved Members to be in their places to reduce them—to put down useless expenditure of every description—to extend liberty in every way, and to support Triennial Parliaments and Vote by Ballot. If the recommendation of the hon. member for Bath were followed by the Irish Members, the consequence would be, that the different members of the Government would hold their seats on very easy terms.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, that he rose for the purpose of submitting the Motion which he had brought before the House yesterday, for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the law relating to the observance of the Lord's Day. At that very advanced hour of the night (two o'clock) it was not his intention to occupy the attention of the House by going into any explanation of the grounds on which he should ask the House to sanction this measure. That explanation he would defer to the second reading of the Bill. All he should now ask was, for leave to bring it in and let it be read a first time. He would then move that it be printed, and fix the second reading to a distant day—some five or six weeks hence—he would say that day six weeks. He did hope that, considering the great importance of the subject, and the numerous petitions which had been presented from all parts of the country in support of it, the House would accede to his proposition.
 899
 Sir Andrew Agnew  did not think, that this was getting over the first stage so very quietly, considering the labours of the Committee last year. That the feeling of the country had become more general in favour of such a measure since then, was proved by the number of petitions which had been presented in favour of it. He possessed fifty-four petitions on the subject, but had not yet had an opportunity of
 902
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, that a great part of the evidence given before the Committee was by parties who had come voluntarily before it.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member
 878
 The Solicitor General  defended the clause. Such a menace as the hon. and learned Gentleman had described was a most improper menace when applied to a witness who had not been examined. It would certainly pervert the course of justice and tend to deter witnesses from coming forward, if the accused party were permitted to say to them, "If you give evidence
 894
 The Solicitor General  had no objection to the courts being open, with only this limitation—that they should be closed while the members considered their verdict. [Mr. O'Connell expressed his assent to this limitation.] As to the power of taking down the evidence by the counsel or agent of the accused, he did not think the mention of such a permission necessary, but he had no objection to its introduction.
 The Solicitor General  said, that an Amendment was quite unnecessary, as it had never been intended by the Government that the Judge-advocate should be both Judge and prosecutor. It was intended that a separate prosecutor should always be appointed by the Lord-lieutenant. It would be considered even a breach of trust in the Judge-advocate if he were to take part in the trial as counsel against the prisoner.
 The Solicitor General  observed, that the Committee had now come to one of the most important clauses of the Bill—that which related to domiciliary visits by the Magistrates, or in virtue of their warrants, between sunset and sunrise, for the purpose of ascertaining the presence or the absence of the inhabitants. It was allowed on all hands to be of the greatest importance that the inhabitants of any House in a proclaimed district should be compelled to furnish the means of ascertaining whether they were at home or abroad; and for that purpose it had been supposed necessary to give the Magistrates, or the persons authorised by the Magistrates, the power of breaking and forcing an entrance into any House under the circumstances in question. His Majesty's Government, however, were very anxious to mitigate the severity of this enactment, and to lessen the inconveniences which it might occasion. They had, therefore, prepared an Amendment, which he should have the honour to propose, and which they hoped would meet the approbation of all parties, and at the same time secure the object which the clause had in view, without rendering it necessary to break or force an entrance into any of the houses. It was proposed that, in the first instance, the Justice, or any person with warrant of justice, accompanied by a Commissioned Officer or Chief Constable, should go to the house, and require the male inhabitants to come forth, and thus enable the authorities
 891
 The Solicitor General  had no objection to make a compromise with the hon. and
 893
 The Solicitor General  conceived that the Amendment of the learned Gentleman would defeat the efficiency of the clause altogether. In larceny it was sufficient to show that stolen goods were found in the possession of a person accused, who was thereby compelled to prove that he had obtained them in a proper manner, if he could; if he could not, it was fairly assumed that he had obtained them in an unlawful manner. And so with respect to the search for arms clause. Besides, how could it be proved that the person was "knowingly" aware that arms were on his premises?
 Sir Oswald Mosley  observed, that by the preamble of this Bill, the whole of the borough of Stafford was declared to lie under the disgrace of having been notorious for corrupt practices. It did appear to him that as a petition was presented against the return of one of the sitting Members for that place, some report should have emanated from that Committee before a Bill of this kind had been even brought in. Some-thins; like evidence ought to have been produced before assuming the fact that the borough had been "notorious for long-continued and general corruption" in the words of the preamble. It was too much for the whole of the burgesses of Stafford in the mass to be involved in this indiscriminate charge. He could state, that among them there were many individuals as respectable and of as high a character as were to be found among the constituency of any hon. Member, It had been properly observed by the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin, that if this principle were once admitted, of indemnifying witnesses in the manner of that Bill, there was no possibility of saying where it would end. Any hon. Member who had been guilty of corrupt practices at any election, might come forward, and, on a petition being presented, obtain a Bill of Indemnity for all witnesses on the inquiry to be instituted; and turning round, might himself be screened from all consequences, give evidence against the place for which he was returned, on account of the very corrupt practices which he had himself been a party to. It would be better to put off the further consideration of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  agreed with the hon. Gentleman opposite that it would be indecent if a party sent to assist the deliberations of the Court-martial were to act as counsel against the prisoner. If he did so act, undoubtedly he ought not to be permitted to reply to the arguments of the prisoner, whilst the prisoner was absent and could not tell what fallacies of fact or argument he might press on the court. He was also of opinion, that if such a person had assisted in getting up the
 888
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to know, whether it was the noble Lord's intention to press his Motion that the Irish Bill should take precedence of all other-business? He only asked the question, because there might be some certainty as to what business would come before the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he hoped the courtesy of hon. Members would prevent him from pressing it; but if they declined acceding to his wish, he feared he should be obliged to press that Motion, as it was necessary that the House should continue the consideration of the Bill  de die in diem
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that the remarks which had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet were deserving of consideration, but it was impossible to alter the title of these courts now, as the clauses which created them had been passed by the Committee.
 Lord Althorp  had no objection to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. His chief reason for confining this appointment to King's Counsel was his desire to secure the attendance of professional persons of experience before the Court-martial.
 Lord Althorp  objected to the Amendment. It was monstrous to assert that, because it was the duty of the Judge-advocate to examine the witnesses against the prisoner, he was therefore so biassed against the prisoner as to be incapacitated from deliberating with the court. At the Quarter Sessions where counsel was not employed for the prosecution, it was the custom of the court to examine the witnesses against the prisoner, but he did not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman would, on that account, contend that the court acted as counsel against the prisoner.
 Lord Althorp  objected to it, as, through a mere mistake the object of the Bill might be defeated.
 Lord Althorp  thought, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had argued this clause very partially. He was to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor who "by menaces or otherwise "deterred a witness, not from giving false evidence, but from appearing" at all as a witness.
 Lord Ebrington  sincerely hoped, that his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would come to no compromise on this point.
 Lord Morpeth  considered that as hon. Members must be aware, that if this Motion were discussed in a full House it would be carried by an overwhelming majority,
 900
 Lord Sandon  was prepared generally to support the prayer of the petition, al-though he could not enter into a discussion of all the details contained in it. Each sentence admitted of a long and important
 883
 Mr. Thomas Allwood  said, on account of the importance of his Motion, it was his intention to persevere.
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that no question could be more worthy of the consideration of the House than that which the hon. member for Lincolnshire had submitted to it. There was no landholder, there was no Gentleman either living in the country or acquainted with its condition, who was ignorant of the deep distress under which the fanner was at present suffering. The hon. Baronet had done well in bringing his Motion under the consideration of the House, and his Motion would have met with the greatest attention, had not Ministers met it in a way which he considered not very becoming in them.
 917
 Mr. Baring  said, that the House must admire the ingenuity with which the noble Lord had endeavoured to get rid of the present Motion, and to bring the Government business under the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Baring) thought it desirable that the Irish Bill should be got through with as little delay as possible but still he could not help thinking that the hon. member for Birmingham had not been treated by the noble Lord with that courtesy which was due to every Gentleman who brought forward an interesting and important motion. He was of opinion, that no good would be effected by appointing a Committee to inquire into the causes of the general distress existing among the industrious classes hut he thought that much good might be derived from the discussion which must take place upon the Motion. There was a general idea prevailing throughout the country, that that distress arose from the present state of the currency, and the discussion was likely to generate sounder notions upon that point than those which existed at present. In speaking of the repeal of the Malt-tax—a tax which produced a revenue of 4,800,000 l 913 l
 Mr. Attwood thought, that the noble Lord, though he had shown great ingenuity in his mode of proceeding that evening, had not treated the House with the respect to which it was entitled from a
 916
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulner  wished to state shortly why he should vote against the Motion of the hon. Member. Whatever arguments might be stated, and however plausible, in favour of not altering the currency, if the Committee were appointed, on the Motion of the hon. member for Birmingham, the country would suppose that the currency was to be altered. That was the common-sense view of the matter; and were they to run the risk of shaking confidence throughout the country? He believed because the appointment of the Committee must shake confidence that it would increase the distress. He admitted, that there was great poverty and great demoralization, and great distress, part of which arose from the use of baneful stimulants. A great many evils arose from the administration of the Poor-laws. The Commissioners appointed to inquire into them had made many things apparent, and the administration of those laws must be amended. If that were done, and the law of settlement were altered, and a wise system of emigration planned, he should rely on them to remove the distress and difficulties of the country.
 Mr. Maxwell  would ask the Government to adjourn the consideration of the question, if he had any influence, for he considered it of great importance. An act of great injustice had been committed against all the debtor people of England. It was a breach of good faith to them. They were ordered to take a one-pound note and a shilling for a guinea—they had done so, and had contracted debts in a depreciated currency. The State itself had borrowed a large sum in what was now called rags. The Government had not returned, by the Act of 1819, to the ancient standard of gold and silver, but to the gold standard only. The people had not had justice done them, though it was the duty of the Government to be the arbiter between the parties, and not throw its weight into the scale of either debtor or creditor. The distress, poverty, and crime, which existed in the country, were, unfortunately, adequate and ample reasons for not refusing the Committee.
 946
 Mr. Cayley  wished to observe, that it was a general impression that the Motion would not be brought on tonight, and that to press it at the present moment would scarcely be giving the question a fair chance. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would consent to a postponement; at the same time, if he pressed his Motion, he should be prepared to support him.
 Mr. Baring  thought it wrong to occupy the time of the House with an imperfect discussion of a most important subject. Besides, there was a notice of Motion for a
 949 950 l l s 951
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as long as he conceived there was a prospect of the House resolving itself into a Committee on the Irish Bill, he would not interfere with the discussion; but as there appeared to be no chance of doing so that night, from the lateness of the hour, he could not reconcile it with his sense of duty to give a silent vote on the question before the House. That question resolved itself into this—would the Government, or would they not, allow the appointment of a Special Committee to inquire into the distress of the country? That was the single question before the House, and, he would say, was the sole prevailing motive which induced the people to insist on a Reform of Parliament. They were now most anxious that such an inquiry should be instituted, and that without delay; and if there were no other reason for falling in with the wishes of the people than that the concession would give them satisfaction, that surely was reason enough. Did the Government deny that distress existed? If so, inquiry would, in their estimation at least, be beneficial. Did they decline to make the denial? No; whence, then, the opposition
 958 959
 Mr. Beaumont  said, he should refuse his consent to the motion, and he only would do so because he had such confidence in Ministers that he believed they would do everything that was necessary in the state of the country. The hon. member for Birmingham entertained peculiar notions with respect to the currency, which might be right or not; but they deserved to be examined. His only ground, he repeated, for refusing his assent to the motion was, that Ministers had not yet had it in their power to lay before the House those remedial measures which, he doubted not, they had prepared.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  opposed the prayer of the petition, and hoped never to see the English Legislature other than a Christian one, which it would be the moment a Jew became a Member of that House.
 Mr. Petre  was much gratified at hearing the liberal sentiments expressed by the hon. and learned Member, respecting Protestant Dissenters; but there was one grievance which pressed upon Roman Catholics, which was at least equal in importance to any that the hon. and learned Member had adverted to; he alluded to the law which rendered a marriage between a Protestant and Catholic invalid, and of which unprincipled men frequently availed themselves to bastardize a whole family. He had petitions to present in favour of the Motion of which the hon. member for Boston had given notice, and whenever that motion was brought forward, it should receive his warmest support. Every place appropriated to religious worship ought, in his opinion, to be exempted from the payment of rates and taxes of every description; for he held it to be unjust and impolitic to interpose even the slightest obstacle in the way of those who wished to worship God. A considerable portion of his constituents were Dissenters, who looked anxiously for the repeal of the laws which operated so unjustly towards
 Major Beauclerk  seconded the Motion. He did so, because, as the Motion was now before the House, he thought it deserved their favourable consideration; though he must confess, that, with a view to its full discussion, he could have wished the hon. Baronet had postponed it to another time. He thought that the repeal of this tax would give the greatest relief to the poorer classes of the country. He hoped most sincerely that the Ministers would agree to the Motion. He was convinced that unless they took off a tax of this sort, little relief would be afforded to the people, and they should come to the end of the Session without doing what was expected from them. He thought the House ought to decide on taking off the tax, and leave the Ministers to make a reduction of expenditure so as to meet its loss. He trusted, that the many Gentlemen whom he saw around him interested in agriculture, would support him on this occasion, convinced, as he was sure they were, that the public establishments were
 910
 Mr. Harvey  wished to say a few words, in order that the vote which he was about to give might not be mistaken. To oppose a motion which had, for its object, an inquiry into the distress of the labouring classes, carried with it the appearance of disregarding what every man must feel was a subject entitled to the most serious attention. But the hon. member for Birmingham ought to have brought forward his Motion under more favourable circumstances. It was not just thus to place Members in a false position. No one but the hon. Member himself could have anticipated this sudden introduction of one of the largest questions to which the attention of Parliament could be directed, and on which every one ought to prepare his mind before he took apart in its consideration. He opposed the Motion because its effect would be, to shift the responsibility from the shoulders of his Majesty's Government. No man was more sensible than he was of the depth of the general distress, and of the necessity of adopting some means for its relief. But while all agreed on that point, no one could doubt the mode in which the relief should be afforded. The evil was the magnitude, and still more the unequal character, of the taxation of the country. He should be sorry, therefore, to acquiesce in a Motion, which would divert from his Majesty's Government their responsibility on that point. He wished
 960
 Mr. Robinson  said, that of all the arguments against the Motion, that of the hon. member for Bridport, seemed to him to be the most extraordinary—namely, that if the House consented to go into the inquiry, his Majesty's Government would be bound to abandon their places. That was an extraordinary argument indeed, to be used by an independent Member of the House of Commons. The appointment of the proposed Committee had been opposed by the same line of argument which had been urged on all former occasions of a similar nature. The inquiry was always too general, or too particular. Some said, that there was no definite object; others that there was a definite object, but that it was an erroneous one. In the present state of the public mind, it would be a great misfortune if the House refused to agree to the Motion of the hon. member for Birmingham. For that Motion he should certainly vote; not that he bound himself to adopt that hon. Member's particular opinions, but on the ground that there was great distress, and that the causes of that distress ought to be investigated.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he was well acquainted with the state of the working classes in the neighbourhood where he resided; and that during the last twenty years he had never known distress so generally diffused amongst the labouring classes as at the present moment. Nor was it confined to the labouring classes alone, hut extended to, and, indeed, in some measure, arose from the distresses of their employers. The shipping interest of this country, with which he was especially connected, was wholly unproductive to the shipowners. This was a melancholy fact, and it was to him a matter of much surprise to hear it asserted, that the distress was confined to the labouring population; for it had extended itself also to all classes of the trading population. There was an abstract proposition before the House, whether or not the industrious classes were in a state of distress; and, admitting that they were, then the question was, would the House investigate its cause, with a view to applying a remedy? If, in the course of the discussion, the question of currency should arise, the House would deal with it according to its wisdom. He would not prejudge that question; but it certainly appeared to him a very extraordinary doctrine that, because gentlemen were known to entertain certain opinions on that question, they were not to enter into an inquiry into the distress of the country.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if he thought, by the observations which he was about to make, he should delay for ever so short a period the commencement of the business in the Committee upon the Irish Disturbances Bill, he should sit down immediately. The present discussion was the most desultory which he had witnessed since the opening of the present Parliament. When a motion of a similar nature had been proposed on a former occasion, during a former Administration, it had been argued against such an inquiry, that it would not lead to any practical good. On the same ground he would vote against the inquiry at present, because he not only considered that it would lead to no practical good, but that it would produce much practical evil, and would greatly augment the distress, to relieve which was its professed object. If the Motion were carried, in his opinion it would be the duty of the Administration to quit office tomorrow. The House of Commons itself was the proper Committee for inquiring into the grievances of the
 957
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, although friendly to the principle of the hon. Baronet's
 915
 Mr. Fielden  said, no doubt could be entertained of the fact, that great and almost unbearable distress existed in the country, and they were bound, at least, to inquire into the nature and causes of that distress. In the motion of the hon. Member, there was not a word about currency, and had it not been stated in debate, he could not have inferred that the motion involved that question at all; but were the people of England to be told, that their grievances were not to be inquired into, because it might raise a question on the currency? And were the poor distressed hand-loom weavers to rest satisfied with being told they were suffering severe distress, which could not be removed because they had to compete with power-looms? If he thought power-looms were the cause of the distress—he and his partners had nearly 1,000 of them—if it could be shown they caused the distress, he should like to see them all broken to pieces tomorrow;—but they were not the cause, for anything, calculated, like machinery, to facilitate and increase production, was a blessing to any people, if the things produced were properly distributed. It was the duty of the Legislature to cause such a distribution to be made; and if he were of opinion, that the relief of public distresses could not be effected by the Legislature, he would take his hat and walk away, and not come within the walls of St. Stephen's again. The labouring people were in deep distress—there was a cause for it, and if the King's servants could not find a remedy for it, they were not fit to fill the benches they occupied; and he would tell them that they could not fill them long. But who were they that had
 954 not right honourable said some owe 955 s s 956
 Mr. Hume  had not the slightest notion that his hon. friend, the member for Lincolnshire, would have brought forward his Motion to-night, or he would have brought down with him to the House a statement of facts and figures, which would have proved beyond contradiction that the duties on malt ought to be greatly reduced, if, indeed, they were not totally abolished. In considering how they should best change the present system of taxation, he hoped that the House would consult the interests of the consumer as well as those of the producers of corn. He wished that his hon. friend, the member for Lincolnshire, would withdraw his Motion for the present, and give them a more favourable opportunity of discussing this question; for in that case, he should be able to prove beyond all dispute that the repeal of this tax was not a question of revenue, He was not inclined any more than the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to part with 4,000,000 l 914 s d s d s d l
 Mr. Pease  observed, that the task which they would have to impose upon the proposed Committee would be almost Herculean, and he should not feel inclined to support the motion merely on abstract principles. If the Committee were to be composed entirely of economists, of one particular sect, he should oppose it; but the cry against former Parliaments had been, that they did not represent the feelings of the country. Were the Reformed House of Commons, then, justified in refusing to go into a Committee to inquire into a subject of so much interest to their constituents? If they did refuse, the country would think, and would think justly, that there was no disposition in that House to listen to the complaints of the people in this Parliament any more than in former Parliaments. He believed that a Committee of the nature proposed would collect a mass of valuable information, and would probably bring forward some very important suggestions for the improvement of the condition of the labouring classes. He was certainly of opinion, that it would be better, if the motion were withdrawn, and put into a different shape: but he would never refuse an inquiry into those distresses, which were allowed on all hands to be great and grievous, and he feared almost overwhelming.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the whole business of the country was carried on upon credit, and the great mass of the
 945
 Mr. Malthias Attwood  hoped, that his hon. relative, the member for Birmingham, would withdraw his Motion, and bring it forward on another occasion, when it might be more likely to receive the attentive consideration of the House. Everything that he had heard tended to convince him of the prevalence of great and appalling distress throughout the country. He did not agree with his hon. friend, the member for Essex, that the amount of distress had been exaggerated. He indulged no such hope. He regretted that this subject had been brought forward to-night, as it was not likely to meet with that attention which its extreme importance required; at the same time, if his hon. relative took the sense of the House on the question, he should support it. He must express his surprise, as well at the grounds upon which the noble Lord opposed this Motion, as at the utter want of information the noble Lord manifested on the subject. He was surprised, that the noble Lord had not heard from his supporters what an entirely different state of things really existed from what be seemed to imagine. The noble Lord said, that, undoubtedly, great distress prevailed among the hand-loom weavers, but added, that it arose from the introduction of power-looms. But, was the noble Lord ignorant, that the power-loom had been in general use for the last thirteen years? Surely the noble Lord could not be serious in imputing the distress in the manufacturing districts to the employment of machinery. The noble Lord admitted, that great distress prevailed among the peasantry; but he did not state what bad occasioned their distressed situation. The noble Lord admitted that the tradesman was distressed; but the noble Lord appeared to be profoundly ignorant of the cause of the distress experienced by all classes; and he refused to investigate the causes. Was the noble Lord aware that great portions of the trading community were living upon their capital, which should be, by its profitable employment, instead of its consumption, not only the means of support to themselves, but the foundation and strength of the prosperity of the community—capital which, if once destroyed, would lead to a state of things that he would not attempt to describe. He rose, however, chiefly with a view of replying to an observation which fell from the noble
 952 s d 953
 Mr. Richard Potter,  as a Dissenter begged to offer his most gracious thanks to the hon. and learned Gentleman for the manner in which he had expressed himself towards that important and influential body, the Dissenters. The Speech of the learned Gentleman would be received in the country with the greatest pleasure and satisfaction, and he was sure that the entire body of Dissenters would feel the greatest gratitude to him. The circumstance detailed respecting the admission of a gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, gave him the most heartfelt pleasure, and reflected the highest honour on the legal profession. He much regretted the opposition of the hon. member for Oldham to the emancipation of the Jews. At one time the hon. Gentleman entertained a strong prejudice against the Unitarians, to whom it was his happiness and privilege to belong; but the hon. Member's acquaintance with his colleague, who also was a Unitarian, had, he hoped, convinced him that Unitarians could be good masters, kind friends, and discharge the duties of good citizens.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, that representing as he did a great agricultural community, he must be permitted to trespass upon the attention of the House whilst he remarked, that in his opinion no question relative to the reduction of taxation could be of greater importance than that which the hon. Baronet had introduced that evening. He thought, however, that it would have been much better for the success of that question had the hon. Baronet refused to bring it forward in the present temper of the House. He was afraid, that its having been brought forward now would prejudice it upon some future occasion. For this reason he concurred with the hon. member for Kent in saying, that the hon. Baronet, in withdrawing his Motion for the present, would be consulting the advantage of the agricultural interest.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  opposed the Motion. He felt it his duty to protest on behalf of the suffering people of the country against the House occupying its time by a further discussion of the Irish Bill, at a period when the country was in the most alarming danger. He felt himself bound also, unless stopped by the House, to use every means in his power to bring the subject of that Motion which stood in his name, under the consideration of the House. He regretted that when the House was so oppressed with business of the highest importance that he should find it necessary to occupy the attention of the House for any considerable length of time, but he felt himself animated by his sense of duty to the country, and impressed with a conviction of the great interest attached to the subject he had to bring forward. The people had made this a Reformed Parliament; and for what purpose was that Parliament now sitting? Was it not assembled in order to restore and confirm the liberties of the people? Was it not bound in duty to study and work for their prosperity? As to the liberties of the people, he would ask, what aid had Parliament yet given to the people? Instead of liberty it had given slavery to one part of the empire; and had not alleviated the misery of the other. For the last six weeks millions of British hearts had been aching because that House had not done one single act to relieve their distress. The noble Lord, whose character and services he so much respected, had endeavoured to put a stop to his Motion, and no doubt the noble Lord would prevent it from meeting with success, for little could be expected when an individual like the noble Lord, powerful, both from his station and character, was opposed to an humble individual like himself. Humble as he was, however, and feeble as his attempt must be, still he felt it his duty to persevere and to do everything in his power for the general happiness of the people. He should have had a vast number of petitions to present upon this subject, but he had taken great pains to prevent the sending of any petitions, for he had said to all his connexions and friends," avoid petitioning; let us, in the first place, leave
 919 920 921 922 l 923 l 924 l l 925 926 I am one, my liege, Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed, that I am reckless what I do to spite the world. And I another, So weary with disaster, tugged with fortune, That I would set my life on any chance To mend it or be rid on't. 927 Full little knowest thou, that hast not tried, What hell it is, in hopeless toils to bide,— To lose good days that might be better spent; To waste long nights in pensive discontent; To speed today, to be put back tomorrow; To feed on hope, to pine with care and sorrow; To live in mis'ry, yet have many fears; To lose thy seeking, yet seek many years; To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares; To eat thy heart with comfortless despairs; To fawn, to crouch, to wait, to ride, to run, To toil, to save, to want, to be undone. s 928 s s s s s s l 929 l l l l l l 930 d d 931 932 933 934 935 936 937 938
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  replied that it certainly was his intention to persevere.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, if the Committee were proposed to change the currency, he should vote against it. The only proposition was, that a Committee should be appointed to inquire. It appeared to him, as the Committee was not to make the change, but only to inquire into the distress of the country, the probability that some Member might propose a change in the currency was no reason for refusing the Committee. It was acknowledged on all hands—nobody now denied—that a great error was committed in 1819. A monstrous act of injustice was, in fact, then committed. The hon. member for Birmingham thought the decision was wrong, and was open to revision. The Committee might inquire, and might agree to the hon. Member's opinion, or might not. The Committee might make a report, and yet not recommend a change in the currency. If the hon. Member divided the House, he should vote with him.
 Mr. Gillon  rose to second the Motion of his hon. friend the member for Birmingham, and he should not feel, that he fulfilled his duty to his constituents if he did not at once avow his conviction of the necessity of the House immediately interfering to alleviate the great distress which pressed so heavily upon the productive classes of society. The hon. Member had indeed drawn a vivid picture; but the picture, though vivid, was not the less true. A Reformed Parliament had now met six weeks, and not one measure having any or the least tendency to promote the prosperity of the people at large had yet been introduced, a fact which was but too likely to shake the confidence of the people in a Reformed Parliament. The first day, indeed, upon which they had met was one of ill omen, for much was said of insurrections in Ireland, but not one word upon the subject of the distress of the productive classes of this country. Surely these circumstances would only be the means of inducing the people of England to call for greater changes, changes which he should be sorry to see made, but which must of necessity follow the demand for them unless the House gave its immediate attention to a subject of such vital importance. He would therefore entreat the House not to deny the request made by the hon. member for Birmingham. The people had raised their despairing voices to former Parliaments, but former Parliaments had declared the cry against taxation was an ignorant impatience; and the petitions which flowed into the House were ordered, one after another, to be laid under the Table as unworthy of notice. As he had formerly stated, the state of depression was so dreadful, that some of our best manufacturers, working fifteen or sixteen hours a-day, could not earn more, after deducting all the necessary expenses, than 5 s d 939 d d d d d d d d d minimum 940
 Mr. Tooke : Intending to vote in favour of the Committee as on an abstract proposition, I would wish to guard my vote by stating that I differ entirely from the avowed collateral and ulterior motives of the hon. Mover. I know, however, that distress exists; I believe that the people of
 961
 The Speaker  inquired whether the hon. Baronet had resolved to proceed with his Motion.
 The Speaker  called upon him to read his Motion.
 The Speaker : Will the hon. Member be pleased to state specifically in what terms his Motion is before the House?
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  expressed a hope that the hon. Baronet would not persevere in bringing forward his Motion that night; owing to the attention of the House being fixed upon another very important and pressing subject, it was impossible for them to give the subject of the Malt-tax the consideration which it deserved. He, therefore, hoped the hon. Baronet would consent to take some future day, when the matter could undergo that discussion which, from the general interest taken in it by the agricultural classes, it was important, for their satisfaction, it should receive.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  regretted to see the hon. Baronet under so great a mistake with respect to what he had said on the subject of his Motion. All he had asked the hon. Baronet to do was to postpone his Motion until it could receive that consideration which from its importance, it deserved; and which, owing to pressing business before the House, it could not that night receive. He was far from imputing to the hon. Baronet any desire to sink the agricultural classes.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would only say a few words, and those would be principally to try and obtain from the hon. Baronet an assurance that he would not press his Motion at the present time. Though he was anxious himself to have the matter discussed—and he was sure, so was the noble Lord opposite—Still he thought, that the question was so important, both to the agriculturist and the consumer; and, in fact, to the whole community, that it ought not to be pressed unseasonably, when hon. Members were not entirely prepared to enter upon the discussion of it. He therefore entreated the hon. Baronet not to persevere in pressing his Motion.
 The Solicitor General,  having presented a Petition from Dudley, agreed to at a public meeting, and signed by several thousand respectable inhabitants of that place, praying that such an ecclesiastical reform may be devised as that every religious sect shall be supported by the voluntary contributions of its adherents; petitions from the Methodists (of the new connexion) of Ebenezer Chapel, Dudley, of Mount Zion Chapel, Wolverhampton, and of Temple-street Meeting house, Bilston, complaining of the various grievances to which Protestant Dissenters are at present subjected, and praying to be relieved there from; and a petition from Dudley, signed by several clergymen and many of the inhabitants, belonging to different religious persuasions, praying for the removal of all civil disabilities affecting the Jews—said, that although it had been
 964 965 966
 Sir John Wrottesley  regretted, that the hon. member for Birmingham had mixed up with the discussion many extraneous topics to which he could not become a party. He fully concurred in what had been stated of the evidence of great distress amongst the labouring and middle classes of the community. He had, in common with the hon. member for Birmingham, great facilities for ascertaining the state of the trading and agricultural interests, and he knew the greater part of those statements which had
 947 948
 Sir John Wrottesley  thought, he did no more than his duty in endeavouring to dissuade the hon. member for Birmingham from persevering. Being a very old Member of the House, he could assure the hon. Member that it would be for the disadvantage of those whose interests his Motion was intended to promote if he persevered. The Motion would not meet that attention which it ought to receive. The most important Motion of the Session ought not to be brought forward in opposition to the general sense of the House, which was, that the Irish Disturbances Bill should be persevered in until it was disposed of.
 Mr. Clay  said, that if he saw any hope of deriving a practical advantage from appointing a Committee, he would support the Motion; but the inquiries of such a Committee would necessarily be of so general a nature as to render the discovery of practical remedies impossible. How various, indeed, were these causes of the distress in the estimation even of those who supported the inquiry. The hon. member for Tynemouth spoke of the shipping interests the hon. member for Birmingham of themo-netary system and the working classes—othersof the distresses of the agricultural, the trading, and the manufacturing part of the community. An inquiry which was to embrace all these various subjects was, in his humble opinion, one of the wildest schemes ever proposed. He admitted that great distress prevailed amongst all classes of the community; but some hon. Members did not appear to take into consideration that many of these distresses could not be cured by legislative enactments.
 Sir William Ingilby  replied in the affirmative.
 Sir William Ingilby  said, he had a Motion on the paper for the repeal of the Malt-duties; and, though he was anxious not to throw any difficulties in the way of the public business, he really could not consent to postpone it. No doubt the Irish Disturbances Bill was a very important measure; but the people of England had also a right to be heard in that House. The agricultural interest of the country was deeply interested in the question he was about to bring forward; and if he consented to its postponement he should have no opportunity of bringing it forward until the end of the Session. In order that the agricultural interest might obtain a hearing, he had placed his Motion on the order-book at an early period of the Session, and he should now maintain its precedence over the other Motions for the day. The question as to the Repeal of the duty on malt, he contended, was one of the most vital questions that could be entertained by that House or the country.
 Sir William Ingilby  resumed. It had been decided, as he understood by the noble Lord on the Treasury Bench that he was to goon with his Motion; and hecertainly felt, from its importance, that he was fully justified in calling the attention of the House to the subject. He believed, in the course of the observations which he should feel it his duty to make, that he should be able to establish such a case in favour of his Motion as would induce the noble Lord to give way to his generous feelings in be half of the agricultural classes, and to remit at once the whole of that odious and detestable tax, the Malt-duty. The first notice which he found of this tax occurred in the reign of William 3rd, when it was imposed, and from which period might be dated the commencement of those evils under which the agricultural interest was labouring, from the extreme hardship and oppression inflicted on it by the malt and other similar taxes. It afterwards went on progressively increasing in the reigns of George 2nd and George 3rd, and when they came to the memorable period of the French war—of that war which this country had carried on against the liberties of France—this tax upon the beverage of Englishmen was increased till it amounted to 5 s l s 908 l 909
 Sir William Ingilby  resisted the imputation which, as he asserted, the hon. Baronet, the member for Kent, evidently wished to cast upon his motives in bringing forward his Motion on the subject of the Malt-tax on the present occasion—namely, of washing to sink the agricultural interests lower than they now were. He was as true and as warm a friend to the agricultural classes as the hon. Baronet himself;
 907
 Sir William Ingilby : I move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the whole of the duties on Malt.
 Sir William Ingilby : I move that the Malt-tax be repealed.
 Sir William Ingilby  said, that there was no one Member of that House more anxious than he was not to give proofs of obstinate perseverance; nor was there any one that should more regret intruding contrary to the desire of hon. Members. All the House had to do was, to declare whether his persevering in the present Motion was intruding upon them or not.
 Sir William Ingilby  said, that under existing circumstances he felt, that he could not do better than accede to the suggestion of his agricultural friends. He would therefore withdraw his Motion for the present, with the full understanding, however, that if the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not hold out some hopes in his budget of reducing the Malt-duties, he should be at liberty to bring it forward again.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in opposing the bringing forward of the question at the present moment, nothing was further from his mind than a desire to run counter to the general wish of the House. He opposed the Motion solely because he thought a fitter opportunity would present itself for the discussion of it, as well as for the consideration
 918
 Lord Althorp  in rising to object to the Motion of the hon. member for Birmingham, begged to be understood as not being at all disinclined to discuss in a tangible shape the question the hon. Member mainly adverted to in his address. His opinions were pretty well formed with respect to that question; and believing them to be correct, and that discussion always tended to elicit truth, he could not, of course, object to that which would, he believed, establish the soundness of the opinions he held. He was the last man who would wish to prevent discussion, and he hoped that neither the House nor the country would consider, that the course he had pursued that evening was dictated in the slightest degree by a desire to prevent the question being thoroughly investigated. On the contrary, his wish was, merely that the question should be brought forward at a period when the House could dispassionately and fairly take it into consideration. Many opportunities would occur when it might be more conveniently discussed than at present. An hon. relation of the hon. member for Birmingham had given notice of a Motion on the monetary system for next Tuesday, and another hon. Gentleman, the member for Yorkshire, had given notice of a Motion after the recess for a Committee to inquire into the distress of the country. On these occasions, ample opportunities would be afforded for discussing the question which the hon. member for Birmingham pointed at in moving for this Committee, namely, the question of the currency. It was true that the hon. Member's Motion said nothing about the currency, but he had no doubt, his candour would admit—as, indeed, it was clear in his speech, that he looked forward for an inquiry in the Committee into the state of our monetary system. Although he did not think the present a good opportunity for entering into a discussion upon that subject, and should not therefore state the grounds upon which he objected to a Committee of Inquiry into the monetary system, grounds which he should be ready to state upon another occasion—he certainly could not allow the speech of the hon. Gentleman to pass without some observations. The hon. Member stated, in general terms, that the Act of 1819 was the cause of the evils existing in 1833. He did not, however, state what his remedy would be for the evils in our monetary system, of
 941 942 s s s s 943 944
 Lord Althorp  was sure the House would bear with him whilst he said a few words in reply to the unprovoked and unjustifiable attack which had just been made upon him. He would appeal to the judgment of the House, he would not appeal to the judgment of the hon. Gentleman, and would leave the House to say whether, in the observations he had addressed to it, he had treated it with the slightest disrespect.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the point on which the hon. and gallant Officer had just touched, in the conclusion of his speech, was the point which he would press upon the hon. Baronet as the reason for not acceding to his present Motion. The hon. and gallant Officer had declared, that, in his opinion, this Motion ought not to have been brought forward until after the Budget; and in that declaration he (Lord Althorp) fully concurred. When he had been pressed by hon. Members upon the repeal of other taxes, he had made the same statement
 911 l
 Lord Althorp  said, that as the hon. member for Birmingham had determined to persevere, he felt he could not ask the hon. Baronet to postpone his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  seeing the hon. member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood) in his place, wished again to ask him whether he would persevere in the Motion of which he had given notice for this day.
 Lord Althorp  denied, that he had stated the distress of the country to be confined to the labouring classes, though he had instanced some extreme cases of distress amongst that portion of the community. He was aware that distress prevailed amongst the employers, though he did say, he did not think the distress was so general as it had been represented to be.
 Mr. John Stanley  presented a Petition from the Master Manufacturers of Stockport, praying that further evidence might be taken before the Factories' Bill was passed, in order that they might have an opportunity of clearing their character of the imputations cast upon them in the  ex-parte 971
 Mr. John Stanley  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Staley Bridge, Lancaster, praying for a removal of the disabilities under which the Jews laboured. The petition was numerously signed, and he trusted that there would be no opposition to the measure about to be introduced on the subject. Indeed he was sure there would not, except from the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Cobbett). He did not see why the Jews should not be allowed the privileges which Christians possessed, as he could confidently say his Majesty had not in his dominions more loyal or industrious subjects.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that as the chief objection of the hon. member for Oldham to the Jews was, that they were blasphemers, and as the hon. Member in a former part of his life condemned Tom Paine as a blasphemer, and yet afterwards assisted at his apotheosis, by bringing over his bones to this country, he trusted yet to see him change his opinion with regard to the Jews.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. member for Oldham, he must be allowed to justify himself by reading the very words of the publication of the hon. Member himself. In one place in the hon. Member's writings he found the following words:—In no part of the  Age of Reason Age of Reason
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he thought there could be no objection to leave out the smoke.
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed an Amendment, the object of which was, to confine the operation of the clause to the proclaimed districts. The purpose of most of those signals was to give notice of the approach of the tithe-collector; and if this clause was to be permitted to extend to quiet districts, the Bill would become much more of a tithe-collecting Bill than it was already.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the clause was not capable of being applied to facilitate the collection of tithe, but it was capable of preventing the assembling of tumultuous bodies of men, whose object was to obstruct by force and violence the collection of tithe; and in his opinion the clause ought to be operative in that way.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the operation of the clause was confined to tumultuous meetings, he would withdraw his objection.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not divide the House upon his Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  affirmed, that, by this clause, a military man, if in pursuance or execution of any power conferred by this Act, he committed the greatest outrage that ever was committed, was completely protected from all legal punishment. The clause provided, that all officers and soldiers acting in pursuance or execution of such power or authority should be responsible only to Courts-martial. Now, if an officer, after committing an enormous outrage in execution of the powers of this Act, should, before the knowledge of its perpetration reached the Horse-Guards, either sell or resign his commission, he could not be made responsible to a Court-martial, as he would no longer be in the army. He would then only be responsible to civil process; and to make that responsibility a nullity, this clause provided, that he should not be questioned in any civil or criminal court. He maintained that things might be done in pursuance of this Act, which were not in conformity with this Act, and that things might be done in execution of it which were not merely contrary to its letter, but which were also more outrageous than its spirit, outrageous as every body admitted its spirit to be. This clause, therefore, provided the most monstrous indemnity for outrage that ever was inserted in an Act of Parliament, or that ever was inflicted upon an oppressed and injured people. By this clause, not only were all magistrates and peace-officers protected from all process in the civil or criminal courts, but even if they grossly misconducted themselves, nobody was entitled to prosecute them save his Majesty's Attorney General. The Bill cleared magistrates and peace-officers from all responsibility to any body save that most innoxious officer to all persons who act under the authority of the Government, the King's Attorney General. The  Diabolus Regis 978 bona fide
 Mr. Stanley  said, it could not be expected that soldiers, acting under the provisions of the Bill, would do their duty if they were not duly protected; and he conceived that this clause did no more than afford adequate protection. He acknowledged that it was unconstitutional, but so was the whole Bill, and yet it was rendered necessary by the disturbances in Ireland, which disturbances, justifying the passing of such a measure, also justified the present clause.
 Colonel Williams  opposed the clause, which he confidently believed would act as a protection for the most atrocious crimes. He himself remembered with what perfect impunity an innocent man had been shot by a soldier at Liverpool, during: the reign of terror in England. A party of soldiers were conducting a deserter through the streets; he ran away, the officer ordered one of his party to fire, the deserter escaped but a bystander was killed. He had made every exertion to bring the case before the public, and to have this atrocity properly punished, but in vain.
 Mr. Pryme  protested against that portion of the clause which enacted that no person should institute a prosecution against any of the persons acting under the authority of the Act, except by the permission of the Attorney General. This prohibition he thought monstrous. There were already sufficient obstacles in the way of persons wishing to prosecute without this restriction; and he considered that the military had sufficient protection granted them in other clauses of the Bill. If this clause were allowed, officers and soldiers might not in violence with impunity. He should therefore move, that this part of the clause be struck out.
 Mr. Pryme  was well acquainted with
 984
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the argument of the Solicitor General convincing, but it was convincing against his own view. If the Attorney General could, under the directions of the Crown, stop any trial, why grant this additional power? It was at least unnecessary, and therefore he would support the Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  asked whether the clause had undergone any amendments?
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to oppose it altogether, as giving a general indemnity for any act whatever, which might be done in pursuance, or in execution of the powers conferred by this Bill, and leaving no power to have it questioned in any Court of Justice in the kingdom. He took it to be clear law, according to this clause, that if a party was acting under this Bill, anything he might do was indemnified, no matter how atrocious. He might break open houses, or commit any violence under the Act, and with perfect impunity. The Courts of Justice in Ireland carried their protection of officers acting under an Act of Parliament to such extraordinary lengths, that any one committing any act whatever had only to prove that he was at the time in the execution of his duty under an Act of Parliament, and he would have no necessity for such a clause as this to protect him. The words of the Act were more comprehensive than had ever been introduced into an Act of Parliament before. Anything might be done—any property destroyed, and the party doing such injury would be free from responsibility to any civil or criminal tribunal other than a Court-martial. This clause would give an indemnity to soldiers who might think proper to shoot hundreds of the King's subjects. He would at once throw over board the assertion of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, that this clause was not intended to indemnify all soldiers who might kill people at the order of their officers—but the Act went further, for it indemnified the officers also. A man might have his house burnt and lose the whole of his
 985
 Mr. Ruthven  declared that he should not be doing justice to the country if he did not resist such a measure as depriving Ireland of the benefit of the  Habeas Corpus
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the Amendment. He had no objection to Magistrates of counties acting in adjoining counties, but he had a strong objection to any Magistrates acting, who were elected in the manner of those corporate Magistrates. But a very short time before the right hon. Secretary came into office, one of these Magistrates was so notoriously corrupt, that he had his regular prices for the favourable exercise of his judicial functions.
 990 l
 Mr. Stanley  said, that without giving full credit to the charges brought against these Magistrates, he saw quite sufficient reason for yielding to this Amendment, in the fact that they were appointed by Corporations, and not by the Government. The Government having all the responsibility of the execution of this Act, their subordinate officers should at least be appointed by themselves. He had, therefore, no objections to strike out the words.
 Mr. Baring  observed, that the attention of the trustees had been directed to these matters, and no doubt some means would be adopted to supply the defects complained of.
 Lord Allhorp  was surprised that it should be stated, that the months of August and September were those in which most strangers arrived in town.
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  said, that the British Museum afforded every facility of which such an institution was capable, as well to students as to casual visitors, and he did not think that further accommodation could be given consistently with the purposes for which it was established.
 Mr. Baring  begged to call the attention of the House to the unusual circumstances under which this Bill was brought forward. There was no ground for going out of the ordinary course of proceeding in this case. All that the House knew was, that there was an ordinary election petition against the sitting member for Stafford, which petition contained  inter alia 992
 Mr. Baring  continued: Why did not the hon. Member then confine his indemnity to those persons who were to give this evidence? If they freed the hon. member for the borough from all disabilities, as the Bill stated, he did not see what could hinder him from sitting for Stafford. Or was he to go back and be returned again—thus making the enormity of the offence his protection? This was a question of general principle, and they should be very careful not to establish a precedent which might produce very mischievous results. He moved, that the Bill be committed that day six months.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  objected to proceeding now, as the course recommended seemed to him one of a most anomalous nature. If they did then go into a Committee, he should certainly vote to except the sitting Member from the benefit of the Bill.
 Mr. Foster  said, that it was an unjust principle, that certain parties should obtain indemnity for their individual crimes at the expense of the borough. The respectable part of the constituency of Stafford would consider it extremely hard to lose their franchise by the misconduct of some of their unworthy brethren.
 Lord Molyneux  had been requested to support the petition, which he did with much pleasure. He had the honour of representing one of the largest manufacturing districts; and from his own knowledge he could state, that the electors had been much wronged in the statements that had gone forth to the world on a previous occasion.
 Mr. Lynch  moved that the words "That all officers and soldiers, acting in pursuance of such power and authority, shall be responsible only to Courts-martial" be struck out. The House had been repeatedly told that these officers were not to act as a regular Court-martial, but were to administer justice according to the principles of the common law; this tribunal ought, therefore, to be amenable for their acts to the common law.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, it had always been the practice of the Government of Ireland to defend the acts of their servants, however culpable they might be. As an instance of this assertion he would state a case. Some time since, in the south of Ireland, a man was tried for murder; a Magistrate who was anxious to procure a conviction actually kidnapped the witnesses for the defence, and kept them out of the way until the trial was over. Their absence was perhaps not the cause of the prisoner being convicted, but capitally convicted he was. An action was afterwards brought against that Magistrate when Mr. Barrington, the Crown solicitor, about whom so much had been said during these debates, was instructed by the Go-
 981
 Mr. O'Dwyer  moved, as an Amendment, that the words giving power to Magistrates of counties of cities, and counties of towns, to act under this clause should be struck out. The character of these Magistrates was notoriously such as to render their exception necessary. They were elected by, and consequently were under the influence of their respective corporations.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  was of opinion, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not answered one of the objections of his hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin.
 Mr. Hawes  suggested, that an improvement should be made in the catalogue of the manuscripts in the British Museum. He wished, that the manuscripts should be arranged alphabetically, and that there should likewise be through the catalogue a facility of inquiring into the subjects of the manuscripts. He also complained of the want of foreign books in the library, and expressed a hope that the arrangements of exchanges between the privileged libraries of France and England might be carried into effect, and that those arrangements should have a retrospective effect. That was to say, that standard works published in either country, before the completion of the arrangement should be exchanged.
 Mr. Ellice  could not agree to the Amendment of the hon. Baronet; and if it were carried, he must leave the whole matter under his management.
 Mr. Ellice  said, the hon. Member's objections were of two kinds. First, that it was establishing a bad principle, because there had been no previous inquiry and report; and next, because it indemnified the candidates. The hon. Member found fault with him, because he proposed to omit the usual words, "not having been a candidate at the late election." Now, his hon. friend would have an opportunity of moving the insertion of these words, as in the Bills relative to East Retford and Gram-pound. One ground for the course he had pursued was, that it was the grossest hypo-
 993
 Mr. Ellice  said, that two persons had stated in the Committee, that they could prove that 524 out of 526 persons had received bribes, and that they would do so if they were indemnified, and he in the name of that Committee, had promised them such a security.
 Mr. Ellice  moved the Order of the Day for a Committee on the Bill, and that the Speaker do leave the Chair.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that his object was, not to punish any party whatever, but to obtain a full disclosure of the facts, in order that the House might afterwards deal with the matter as a public abuse.
 Mr. Littleton  would certainly vote for referring this Bill to a Committee; but he must say, that he looked upon it with some degree of distrust, since it extended the proposed indemnity to all persons whatever. At the same time he thought, that if some measure of this kind were not passed, public justice would be eluded. He thought, that the House should go into a Committee, where the Bill might be put into a less objectionable shape.
 Mr. Shaw  thought, that a Bill of this kind ought not to be introduced, except it was founded upon the Report of an Election Committee, or otherwise the House would be adopting the bad precedent of acting in such matters on the suggestion of an individual. The hon. Member ought first of all to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject.
 Mr. Harcourt  had by no means expressed an opinion as to what was necessary to be done in the details of the Bill introduced into this House, but merely said, that if the penal system were to be kept up, it would be desirable to accommodate the penalties to the change in the value of money. He was far from having any puritanical wishes to curtail the re creation of the poor, who certainly, in former times, especially in the country, enjoyed much more recreation on the Sunday than they now did. He thought that much more might be done by example than by legislation.
 Mr. Harcourt  presented petitions for the better observance of the Sabbath from Henley-upon-Thames, and sixteen parishes in the southern districts of the county of Oxford. These petitions were signed by all the incumbents of the various parishes from which they had emanated, and afforded a contradiction to the somewhat uncharitable allegations of the hon. member for Oldham, that petitions on this subject originated from worldly, rather than religious, feelings. He entirely concurred in the desire of the petitioners, that the due observance of the Sabbath ought to be secured, and he did so, not only in a religious point of view, but to increase the moral and physical energies of the labouring classes of the community, who had a fair right to claim the protection of the Legislature from Sunday labour.
 Mr. Harcourt , in reply to what had fallen from the hon. member for Oldham, said, that the individuals who had been charged by the hon. Member with getting up these petitions from worldly motives, were, for the most part, religious persons,
 969
 Mr. Wilbraham  begged to state, that there was not in the House a more ardent friend to any Bill which went to throw the protecting arm of the law round those children than himself, but he entreated the House to look at the palpable injustice which would be done to the masters if the Bill were passed without inquiry, and without listening to the complaints of those who were to be affected by it. He would not go into the evidence given before the Committee, but he would just remind the House, that out of the number of witnesses examined, there were ten from Scotland, two only from the whole county of Chester, and from Leeds and its neighbourhood forty-nine.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  would oppose this clause, as the most mischievous, the most dangerous, clause of the whole Bill. It put the whole people of Ireland out of the protection of the law, and gave them no redress whatever in case of oppression or wrong. It ought to be expunged. It was impossible that the people of Ireland should ever forgive England if this clause were passed. It would sow the seeds of separation, and they would grow up to a frightful harvest. It was establishing the government of the sword; and if the
 988 laughter
 Mr. Henry Grattan  thought that the protection granted to the soldiers by that clause, ought only to be granted in a country which was in a state of revolution. If Ministers meant to say, that Ireland was in a state of insurrection, or bordering on insurrection, they ought to say so boldly, but they ought not to come down to that House and endeavour to pass a clause which insinuated that the country was in a state of insurrection, and would be justifiable only when it was in such a state. He had many cases in his possession, of the most horrible acts committed by officers while on Courts-martial during the time when Ireland was formerly under Martial-law, in every one of which the delinquents escaped with impunity. He therefore thought that the present clause ought not to be acceded to.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  also objected to the clause. He would leave out all the words after the word "making," in the second line, down to the word "signal,"
 976
 Mr. Warburton  thought it was impossible for any unbiassed man to have heard the statement of the right hon. member for Coventry without being convinced, that the House ought now to go into a Committee on the Bill.
 Mr. Wilks  rose to order. No less than nine Gentlemen had addressed the House upon the presentation of this petition; and he felt quite certain, that if such a course were to be adopted, a stop would be put altogether to the presentation of petitions.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  put it to the House whether it would not have been far better that this discussion should have been postponed until the Motion came regularly before them. Many Members in the late Parliament had opposed even the appointment of a Committee, and no doubt the same reasons which then actuated them would induce them to oppose a Commission; but he thought that very few would be found to oppose the Bill.
 Mr. Wilson Patten : I rise to order, Sir, for I do not see how this applies to the present petition.
 Mr. Hume  thought it desirable, that the Museum should be open for six days in the week, instead of three. If that object could not be accomplished with the present number of officers, they ought to have relays of officers. He thought it would be proper to appoint a Committee to inquire into the whole subject of the Museum. It was a most extraordinary circumstance, that during two months of the year—and
 991
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the town was not frequented during these months by gentlemen who were in the habit of going out shooting. A Committee was desirable; for it was of importance, considering that the British Museum was supported by the public money, that the greatest possible accommodation should be afforded to the public.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  said, that the manufacturers in that part of the country with which he was connected (Carlisle) wished for the most rigid inquiry into the subject, feeling that a stigma had been cast upon them which had been highly injurious. They had been held up to the reproach of the whole nation, and they naturally felt a desire to clear that reproach away. The cotton manufacturers alone had been hitherto protected by the Legislature; but the same protection should extend to the persons engaged in other branches of manufacture. He was by no means opposed to the principle of the Bill; for he thought, without pre-supposing cruelty on the part of the manufacturers, that twelve or fourteen hours a day for children's labour were by far too much.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the Insurrection Act gave complete protection to Magistrates so that they could not be prosecuted for anything done under it. And this Bill went still further. No prosecution could be instituted against Magistrates for offences committed under the Bill, unless with the sanction of the Attorney General. There could then be no action at all brought against the Magistrates. Was that intended, he desired to know? He knew a case of a Magistrate who had quarrelled with a gentleman, and who arrested him in the middle of the street of a town, surrounded by people, under the Insurrection Act. The arrest was made after night-fall, and the gentleman was put into gaol. If such a case were to occur
 987 bona fide bona fide bona fide
 Mr. Sheil  said, that, in giving such protection to soldiers, they were going far beyond the old Insurrection Act, and he could see no cause why they should do so. They could not plead inconvenience; for it was well known that there were only two or three actions brought against soldiers acting under the old Insurrection Act. Could the Government show, what alone could justify the additional protection then asked, that the provisions of the old Insurrection Act were not adequate to protect the soldiers? He denied it; for experience showed, that the soldiers were fully protected under that Act. The learned Solicitor might be right in his position of law; but he said, with the greatest possible deference and respect, that this was an Act, of which English lawyers had had no experience. It had been clearly shown by his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, and his hon. and learned friend the member for Monaghan, men of high standing and reputation at the Irish bar, what the effect of this Act would be. His hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, proposed that no man who acted in the  bona fide bona fide
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that it appeared to him that this clause was taken from an Act of Parliament, passed by the Irish Parliament during the Rebellion, and which Act granted indemnity to those who acted in pursuance of it, in order that vigorous measures might be executed more effectually. The indemnity proposed by the clause was more extensive than was required, or than was safe or even proper to grant. The clause was not well considered by those who had the framing of it, and he would certainly vote against it.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought, that it would be perfectly impossible, as the Bill stood, to punish a soldier so acting.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that his opinion upon this subject was not founded upon any notion of the tyranny of the manufacturers, but on the facts stated by the manufacturers themselves; one of which was, that the children were worked twelve and more hours a-day. He would take the evidence of the medical men, who were of opinion that not even adults could with safety to their health be worked for that period. Unless the manufacturers could alter that fact, he should feel justified in voting for the Bill.
 Mr. Robert Gordon  said, that this Amendment would leave them in a great difficulty, and ought not to be adopted, for, according to this, if there should be no Election Committee appointed, then there would be no Bill. The House ought not thus to put themselves at the mercy of the persons concerned in this election, but ought to set their faces against bribery wherever they found it. A Reformed House of Commons would disgrace itself if it submitted to let such bribery escape as that which the right hon. member for Coventry was prepared to prove had been practised at Stafford.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, it appeared to him that there were two classes of delinquents who were confounded by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. There were, in the first place, such as transgressed unwillingly—such as contravened the law, either by acting negligently, or by over
 980 bona fide
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, he should not refer to the principle, "whether the state of Ireland was such as to justify the measure," but would content himself with defending the clause. A jurisdiction would rest with the Judge in the first instance, to decide whether there was probable good reason for any act committed by persons employed in carrying the measure into effect, or whether such parties had abused the powers intrusted to them. If the Judge had a doubt on the subject, he would send the case to a Jury to decide whether the individuals had acted  bona fide mala fide bona fide 986 bona fide
 Mr. Ingham  proposed the insertion, after the third line of the clause, of the following words:—"Excepting so far as it may concern the arrest or imprisonment of any person in custody in such district, and not brought to trial within three calendar months." He thought that otherwise the indemnity afforded by the Bill would be too comprehensive.
 Mr. Cobbett : After the personal attack which was just now made upon me by an hon. Gentleman opposite, who has accused me of having formerly represented Mr. Paine as a blasphemer, and of having latterly done something which would imply that I entertained a far different belief. Now, I never in the whole course of my life—
 Mr. Cobbett  regretted the absence of his hon. colleague. He had himself no experience in the matter, no knowledge of it, and no reasons to offer to the House; all that he acted upon was authority. His hon. colleague, he believed, worked up no less than a hundredth part of the cotton that was imported into England.
 973
 Mr. Cobbett : Since the time I first spoke of Mr. Paine, I have written a hundred volumes, and have, perhaps, had occasion to mention his name three hundred times; but whenever I have mentioned his name, and spoken in commendation of his writings, I have never failed to make an exception with regard to his religious writings. As to the act I performed of bringing his remains to England, I can only say, that I held it to be my duty, and for the reason which I stated at the time. I did that because he had written books published by him both in France and England, clearly pointing out the pernicious consequences of paper money. Mr. Paine was my teacher with regard to paper money, and if his advice had been followed instead of being rejected, we should not have been in the state of difficulty in which we now find ourselves with respect to the currency.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the hon. Member had remarked that something should be done to make the existing laws conformable to the ancient practice of observing the Sabbath in this country. Now, the fact was, that according to the ancient practice fairs and markets were held on the Sabbath day; the first law for religiously observing the Sabbath having been passed in the reign of Charles 2nd. So much for the ancient practice of the country, at which time, however, the people were quite as religious as at present. But the hon. Member seemed to impute to him a desire to detract from the motives of the petitioners in stirring on this subject, as though he had originated the idea that they were animated by worldly motives. Now, the fact was, that they had originated that idea themselves. They had, as he had already stated, published a pamphlet, which they circulated with a form of petition, in the very outset of which they declared that they sustained great injury in consequence of others not observing the Sabbath with so much rigidity as their consciences dictated to them to be necessary for their own observance of it. He did not mean to say, that a great many of the persons who had signed these several
 970
 Mr. Cobbett  said, be had that morning read a pamphlet published by those who wished for an alteration in the laws respecting the Sabbath; it was a sort of circular, which they sent about, having a draft of a petition attached to it, for the adoption of others. In this pamphlet they set forth that the non-observance of the Sabbath was injurious to their trade; and he wished the House to bear this in mind, for it would be found on examination of all the petitions, that at the bottom, the object was to keep the trade in their own hands, in order that they might get the most of it, and prevent others from selling, while they would rather stay at home, or enjoy themselves in any way they pleased. It was clear then that it was a mere matter of pounds, shillings, and pence, and not of the Gospel.
 Mr. Cobbett  wished to ask the hon. Member who said of the Jews that they were one of the most industrious classes of his Majesty's subjects, whether he could produce a Jew who ever dug, who went to plough, or who ever made his own coat or his own shoes, or who did anything at all, except get all the money he could from the pockets of the people?
 Mr. William Roche : My recollection of the proceedings of military tribunals for civil purposes, authorizes and impels me to remark that if this Court-martial clause is unfortunately to be retained, the House cannot be too particular in diminishing the evil, in guarding it, if that be possible from abuse and from the tyrannical tendency of such tribunals, when taken
 982 983
 The Speaker : As the hon. Member has now answered the hon. member for Old-
 975
 The Speaker : What the hon. member for Oldham is saying certainly does not
 974
 The Solicitor General  thought that the words to which the hon. Gentleman objected ought to stand part of the Bill, as it was incumbent on the prosecutor to show that these signal-fires were lighted knowingly and illegally.
 The Solicitor General  said, that that might be as easily made the means of conveying a signal as anything else, and that the whole question would be as to the intent of the parties.
 The Solicitor General  thought the Amendment unnecessary; the Attorney-General would not refuse his warrant when the cause of justice required it. Even supposing the prosecution to be commenced, the Attorney General might defeat it by entering a  noli prosequi
 The Solicitor General  contended, that unless the indemnity provided by this clause were given, it would be absurd to expect that either military or civil officers would act with the necessary vigour. This indemnity only applied to what was done in a proclaimed district in pursuance or execution of any power or authority conferred by the Act. Therefore, if any officer, either civil or military, did any thing illegal, and exercised his authority in any way which was not sanctioned by the Act, he would still be liable to an action in the civil, or to an indictment in the criminal, courts. It had been repeatedly said, in the course of this debate, that this Bill suspended the  Habeas Corpus 977 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus
 The Solicitor General  could assure the Committee, that the clause under consideration would not allow crimes committed by soldiers acting under the Act to go unpunished. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had said, that it deprived the people of all protection against the outrages of the soldiery. That he most unequivocally denied. If any such outrages were committed as those supposed by the hon. Member, that clause would not protect the guilty party. It would be necessary for him to show that he was acting in the discharge of his duty. It would not do to say: "I was a patrol at the time;" he must prove that he was  bona fide
 The Solicitor General  thought the words unnecessary. As the Bill was drawn, actions such as that described by the hon. and learned Gentleman might be prosecuted. An action would lie. If persons in the exercise of authority acted wantonly, they would have no protection from the law, and they would deserve none. No words were wanted to make the actions which were done  mala fide bona fide
 Sir John Wrottesley  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had just addressed them. He thought an Election Committee would be competent to meet the case, and with such a Committee it should be left. He wished the present Motion to be withdrawn, and the Bill not to be committed before the 20th of April, in order that the matter might previously be taken into consideration by the Election Committee, which would be appointed on the 16th. If, when the Election Committee was appointed, the sitting Member withdrew from opposing the petition, there would be ground for supposing that bribery had taken place, and then he should agree with any one who proposed a proceeding of the kind. If the hon. member for Essex would allow him he would substitute his Amendment for that proposed by the hon. Member, and would move, that this Bill be committed on the 22nd of April.
 Sir George Phillips  had considered himself bound to say a few words, only one side of the question having been stated to the House. If the House did not wish that he should enter further into the subject, he would give way. An hon. Member had stated, that no evidence could be given that the manner in which children worked in factories was consistent with their health. Now, he would only refer that hon. Member to the factory of Mr. Feilden, where he would find evidence that the children engaged in that employment were in a high state of health and happiness.
 Sir George Phillips  stated, that since this subject had been under discussion, he had obtained all the information upon it that he could. He must say, that he knew of factories which had existed under the present law for thirty or forty years; and from his own observation of those factories, he could state that there were no manufacturing or agricultural labourers in Lancashire, that were in a better situation than the people (male and female) who were employed in them.
 Sir Robert Inglis  looked at the Bill with great distrust, and was disposed to concur with the Amendment of the hon. member for Essex.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that if it could be supposed that all the districts not actually proclaimed would be in a state of profound quiet, the Motion would be reasonable enough. But as that was not to be hoped for, and as it was good to be able to employ a preventive power, he thought the Motion ought not to be agreed to. The prohibition to make signals in quiet districts was no hardship, and it might have the effect of preventing them becoming so disturbed as to render it necessary for the Lord-lieutenant to proclaim them.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve into a Committee upon the Irish Disturbances' Bill.
 Lord Mahon  bore his testimony to the proper management of the institution, having derived great advantages from it. It would bear comparison with any similar Institution on the Continent, and though perhaps not open for so many days as some of them, it was open for many more hours.
 Lord Sandon  thought, that the candidates, if they were the persons who had been guilty of the bribery, ought not to be included in this Bill of Indemnity.
 An Hon. Member  stated, that the Magistrates in his part of the country had granted licenses to only five public houses. Immediately after the Beer Bid passed, however, no less than seventy-two beer shops were opened. It was impossible, from the increased number of these houses, for the officers and constables to have any sort of control over them. He had frequently been informed by publicans, that they were obliged, in order to secure custom, to admit of gambling and every species of immorality in their houses, which, prior to the passing of the Sale of Beer Act, was on no account permitted. At the same time he hoped the House would bear in mind, whatever alterations they might make in the present Beer Act, that it was passed in order to get rid of a great evil, namely, the monopoly of the brewers.
 Mr. Green  presented a Petition from the master cotton-spinners of the town and neighbourhood of Lancaster, praying the House to grant a Commission to take evidence relative to labour in cotton factories, before the House proceeded with the Bill, of which a noble Lord (Lord Ashley) had given notice.
 An Hon. Member  said, that he believed the real origin of petitions on this subject was a respect for religion. He admitted, however, that there might be some persons actuated by what the hon. member for Oldham called "pounds, shillings, and pence," but he believed that the far greater number were presented from religious motives only.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, if the Bill were to pass for two years, or even for one year, at the end of that time the trade would be wholly gone from this country, and would be in the hands of foreigners.
 Mr. Harries  (interrupting the right hon. Baronet) was understood to say, that his statement before the Committee was meant to apply only to the Ways and Means of the year, and not meant to exonerate the Chancellor of the Exchequer from stating to the House the expenditure of the past year, and his view of the financial resources of the country, before calling on the House to vote the Estimates.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  concurred with the right hon. member for Harwich. He did not want an explanation of the Ways and Means of the year, but a financial statement of the expenditure of the last nine months, and the views of the Ministers as to the future financial prospects of the country.
 Captain Berkeley  said, he wished merely to remind the Committee, that the question before it, was the vote for the number of seamen. On that question after the admirable statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the First Lord of the Admiralty, he had nothing to say, but he should feel himself called upon to support the vote now proposed.
 Mr. O'Connell  put it to the Committee to say, whether or not they were prepared to vote away the money of the public for the avowed purpose of maintaining sinecures? The question had reduced itself to one of sinecures or no sinecures; and the question for a Reformed House of Commons to determine was, whether or not they would support the Motion for economy of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex?
 Major Handley  said, he had reason to know, that, by many of the officers of marines, those appointments were considered degrading to the corps, and he should, therefore, support the Amendment.
 An Hon. Member  said, that he was ready to support the hon. member for Middlesex in any specific case which he brought forward.
 Captain Yorke , referring to the statement of the right hon. Baronet, in answer to a former statement of his (Captain Yorke's), respecting the want of spars and masts in the yard at Portsmouth to supply those injured in men of war coming in to be refitted, could only say that his statement was made from ocular inspection and he was convinced that the masts to which the right hon. Baronet alluded, could not have been in that part of the yard which he had seen and where they were generally deposited. They must have been elsewhere. He had more than once had occasion to object to the practice adopted in the dock-yards in fitting out ships. On almost every occasion it was found that the necessary spars were wanting. He had made this statement on a former occasion, and if the right hon. Baronet could contradict him let him do so. Why, he would ask, ought there not to be in the different dock-yards a sufficiency of spars for the different ships which came into repair. As a proof of the accuracy of his statement, he would mention, that when the Spartiate, on coming into port, was obliged to have all her lower masts taken out, the Nelson's foremast was placed in her as a mainmast. Now it might be the practice for ships in ordinary thus to afford the means of supplying masts and spars that were suddenly required. He was not however aware that such was the practice and he thought the double operation both inconvenient and expensive. Much had been said about masts and spars, and though he was one of those who thought there ought to be a sufficient supply in the different dockyards, he never meant to go the length of saying that there ought to be forty-two lower masts in any one of those establishments, but surely it was not too much to expect, after, for instance, a cruise in the North Sea, and requiring a refit, a vessel should find at least three or four masts and yards ready for her when she got into dock. They had, indeed, been told that there were at present double the masts and yards to be found in the dock-yards to the quantity kept in them at any former period. But this he denied. The right hon. Baronet said, that there were more stores in the dock-yards than when the Duke of Wellington's Administration terminated. When the right hon. Baronet
 1042 l 1043 1044
 Lord Ashley  assured the House, that great agitation prevailed in the manufacturing districts upon this subject. It was impossible the present system could be allowed to go on. He had received various letters, asking him if he intended to delay his Bill, and accede to the Motion for a Commission? His answer to all these letters had been, that whenever that Motion was brought forward he would resist it to the utmost.
 Lord Molyneux  protested against the child-murder accusation which had by some been brought against the owners of factories. He trusted that the House would institute further inquiries into the subject previous to proceeding with the Bill.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that on every side the people were demanding a reduction of taxation; and yet, whenever any proposition for economy was submitted to the House, Ministers were always prepared with an excuse for not adopting it. He wished some hon. Gentleman would state where and when the reduction of expenditure should commence: for whatever specific reduction was proposed had innumerable
 1059
 Mr. Charles Ross  was anxious to state his opinion to the Committee, but finding great impatience manifested he would only say, that he doubted whether the consolidating of the Navy and Victualling Boards with the Admiralty, which took place last year, and was so much praised, would be productive of any beneficial results. It would take another year to see how the plan worked, and before a positive opinion could be formed on the matter.
 Mr. Harvey  said, the noble Lord was determined not to make the statement demanded, and perhaps it was hardly worth while to carry the contest to a division, in which the noble Lord was sure of obtaining a victory. With such a determination on the part of the noble Lord, the House could only anticipate the result. The Motion, however, was full of benefit, and he could feel comfort in his anticipations. The Government was most anxious, as they all knew, to reduce the expendi-
 1021
 Mr. Robinson  contended that on general principles the House ought to be in possession of the fullest information as to the state of the general finances before they voted the Supplies. He had not heard the slightest answer to the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex, to takes vote of credit for three months; and if that hon. Member divided on the question, he should most certainly have his support. He did not blame the Ministers for the delay in bringing forward the Estimates; the engrossing nature of the business which had hitherto occupied the attention of the House sufficiently answered for them.
 Mr. Robinson  did not consider the noble Lord's answer such as at all to impugn the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex, in which he entirely concurred. With respect to the alteration in the financial year, the noble Lord had corroborated the statements of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that two men were executed at Worcester for highway robbery, and they stated to the chaplain that the commencement of their crime had been owing to the frequenting of the beer shops. He should be very happy to have the measure reconsidered; and as so many statements had been made from various Members, and so many petitions from different parts of the country presented, he was bound to believe that a change to a very great extent was necessary.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that no exception whatever had been taken to the personal merits or services of the individual officers—the question was one entirely of principle; but after the best reflection which he could bestow on it, he did not find it in his power to support the Motion of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex; for, if that Motion were agreed to, it would go at once to deprive six or eight meritorious officers of their means of subsistence, and of the reward for honourable and useful services to which they were justly entitled. He should be for putting an end prospectively to those sinecures; whereas the Motion of his hon friend would have a retrospective operation.
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that he had but a few words to say, and those were, to express his gratification at the statements made by hon. and gallant Officers on the other side of the House, that the British naval service was becoming popular among seamen, and that for the future it would not be necessary to have recourse to the odious system of impressment. That matter was one that had long engaged his attention, and he was prepared to move, if no other hon. Member did, that a Select Committee he appointed to inquire into this subject.
 Mr. Goulburn  should not have said one word on this occasion, but for what had fallen from the hon. Admiral, who had thought tit to cast an imputation upon a a right hon. Gentleman no longer a Member of that House. As his right hon. friend was absent when thus attacked, and would have no opportunity of replying to
 1051 Edward Codrington 1052
 Mr. Goulburn : The hon. Admiral said, that he well knew the length of time that the right hon. Secretary had served in the Admiralty. He (Mr. Goulburn) asked why, well knowing it, he had taken especial care not to state it?
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he did not know whether every portion of the 16,000 l 1005
 Mr. James Oswald  observed, that many of his constituents, the proprietors of large cotton manufactories in Glasgow, had deputed him to state, that if the House passed the Bill as it at present existed, without inquiry, justice could not be done to them. The evidence which had been given on the subject threw an unmerited odium upon them, which they should not be able to remove without the appointment of a Commission or a Committee.
 Mr. Briscoe  said, that on a former occasion he had voted against a motion of the hon. member for Middlesex on the subject of sinecures; he had since seen reason to regret that vote, and he should endeavour to repair the error by voting with him on the present occasion. The persons filling the offices now under the consideration of the House had no duties to perform, and should, therefore, as he conceived, no longer receive any portion of the public money.
 Mr. Herries  said, the last Administration had been as fully desirous to reduce taxation, and as successful in doing so, as the present Government. The administration of the Duke of Wellington, with which he had had the honour of being connected, had made a reduction of 3,000,000 l
 Mr. Herries  could not concur with the hon. member for Middlesex in the Motion he had made; but he did concur with him in many of his observations, and thought that they had received no answer from the other side. He could not concur with the noble Lord in the propriety of going into a Committee of Supply before the noble Lord had given that information which he, in common with the hon. member for Middlesex, thought necessary. He did not agree, indeed, with all the principles laid down by the hon. member for Middlesex. In his opinion, the first step was to ascertain the exigencies of the State, and next to make the revenue of the State accord
 1018 1019
 Mr. Plumptre  would not depart from the vote which he had given on the former occasion, and would again support the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Sir. Wilson Patten  had been reluctantly obliged to defer his Motion for the Commission on this subject; but he certainly was determined to bring it on whenever he had an opportunity.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that it was the cry, when the investigation took place before, that legislation would destroy the trade. Before legislation had taken place on the subject, children were employed sixteen or seventeen hours a-day, but since the interference of the Legislature, their labours had been greatly diminished, and the trade had increased instead of diminished.
 Mr. Hume  rose to explain the grounds on which he could not concur in the motion that the right hon. Gentleman should leave the Chair. Ever since Parliament had met he had been anxious to know from his Majesty's Ministers whether they intended to make any and what reduction in the taxation of the country. The Ministers, however, carefully evaded giving any explanation on the subject in the Speech from the Throne, and the noble Lord had as carefully avoided the subject ill all his speeches delivered in that House; and the House was at that moment in complete ignorance whether Government intended to afford any relief to the people or not. The noble Lord had indeed plainly said, that he did not intend to offer any explanation, or to give an answer to any question on the subject till the termination of the financial year. The great objection to terminating the financial year on the 5th of January was, that the service for each year was begun before the House was in possession of the amount of the expenditure of the year preceding; and it had been resolved in consequence of that objection that the financial year should in future terminate on the 5th of April, instead of the 5th of January. He understood, that the object of the alteration was to give sufficient information to the House at the commencement of the year, to enable it to know what ought to be voted; but if that information was to be withheld till the 5th of April, it would be perfectly impossible that the object which they had
 1006 1007 l l l 1008 1009 l 1010 l l l 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015
 Mr. Hume  insisted that the vote ought to be reduced. Much of the money voted for the navy was uselessly expended. We had paid away uselessly since the peace as much money as would more than equip two such fleets as the Americans had now. We had great quantities of stores that were now rotting away. That was the way in which the public money was wasted. The Americans had but five frigates at sea, three of the larger and two of the smaller class; they had a commerce, as extensive as ours, and yet they found this force sufficient to protect it. Now, in 1828, instead of the five or six ships of the Americans, we had no less than 170 ships-of-the-line, exclusive of frigates; and the number now was 118. He believed that half that number would be sufficient for us. He did not want to go back to the standard of 1792, as he was accused of doing; but to that recommended by the Finance Committee in 1817. Our navy was kept up merely as a means of patronage. There was no justice done to men serving in it, unless they had Parliamentary or Aristocratic connexions. Such men rose in four or five years to high promotions, while others served for twenty or thirty years without any promotion whatever. The question the Committee now had to decide was, whether they would vote a body of 27,000 men for the navy, when 20,000 had been thought sufficient six years since. He should move as an Amendment, that the vote should be reduced by substituting 20,000 men for 27,000 men, as he thought the 20,000 were amply sufficient.
 Mr. Hume  said, that all he contended for
 1057
 Mr. Hume , said, that nothing could be more stupid than the way in which Navy Estimates were voted. The number of admirals and other officers were not specified, but officers and men were huddled together in the greatest confusion. With respect to the army, it was very different, for the number of generals, colonels, and regiments were stated, so that an insight into the Estimates for each might be obtained. A Return had been mode to the House of the sinecures held by naval officers, which he wished to get rid of; and he should, therefore, move that the Estimates be reduced by that sum—namely, 6,975 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that hon. Members complained that he pointed out no case of abuse. Had he not mentioned the case of Sir Augustus Fitzclarence, which was a most abominable case of abuse?
 Mr. Hume  could not reckon upon such support; it was the loop-hole through which they all got out. If officers were to be paid salaries, he wished that each individual case should be laid before the House, in order that it might be deliberated on. It was said, that such subjects should not come under the consideration of a popular assembly; but he wished that the Representatives of the people would pay more attention to them than they did. He trusted, that before the end of the present Session there should be an end to all sinecures and unmerited pensions. If officers were to receive pay, it should be given to them under the real—not a fictitious denomination.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that a Commission of Inquiry would have the effect of materially procrastinating the Bill. If there was no oppression on the part of the cotton, manufacturers, why should they be so sensitive as to the provisions of the Bill, and call so loudly for inquiry that was to end in delay? The object of the Bill introduced by the noble Lord was to put an end to oppression;
 1003
 Mr. Nicholson Calvert  would certainly support the Estimate as it stood; for though there had been in times past a grievous abuse of the power of granting sinecures, yet he did not apprehend there was now much danger of the continuance of that abuse; and he thought those offices against which the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex was directed, formed means of rewarding meritorious officers, which it would be highly inexpedient to abolish.
 Mr. Philip Howard  was anxious that inquiry on both sides should precede legislation. Restrictions of a very partial nature had hitherto been exclusively imposed on the cotton trade. This Bill was another instance of it. The hon. Member
 1002
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the Report of the Committee of Supply, voting 16,000 l
 Mr. Potter  must repeat what he had said on a previous night, that if such a Bill were to pass into a law, a blow would be inflicted on the cotton trade, from which it never could recover. He had that morning received a letter stating that it would occasion the immediate withdrawal of a large capital from that trade; and no gentleman would ever think of investing his money in property of that kind, when a Bill like the present might subject him to severe penalties for what he deemed the most profitable way of employing his capital.
 Mr. Gisborne  observed, that when, upon
 1058 ad misericordiam
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to oppose receiving the Report, and to object the grant of 16,000 l l l l l l 1004
 Mr. Cobbett  would not detain the House many minutes; but he felt himself called upon to say a few words, being satisfied that those petitions, in favour of what they called the observance of the Lord's Day, were neither more nor less than a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence, and not at all of the Gospel. Perhaps many hon. Members were not aware, that such petitions proceeded from a Society established in London for the purpose of effecting their object. The society circulated its pamphlets, one of which he held in his hand, and to which was appended a copy of a petition, and they recommended the people throughout the different parts of the country to send up petitions to Parliament, in the same manner as the Anti-slavery Committee were accustomed to recommend the people. From that petition it appeared, ostensibly, that it was from a regard to Christian principle that they wished the House to interfere with the present observance of the Sabbath; but from the second paragraph of that pamphlet, it would appear that the Gospel had nothing at all to do with it. The hon. Member read the paragraph in question, which stated, that in consequence of the practice that now existed, those who, from proper motives, were desirous of duly observing the Sabbath, were prevented from so doing in consequence of the unfair competition of another class, who spent that day in trading. In short, he conceived it to be the cry of great tradesmen against little tradesmen, and he hoped the House would consider well before it listened to such Jesuitical and fanatical petitions. Their object was to put down one of
 999
 Mr. Dugdale  presented Petitions against the Sale of Beer Act, from Meriden, and other places in Warwickshire,
 Mr. John Feilden  agreed in the necessity for the Bill, the best proof of which was the anxiety of the adult labourers for its success. He could not, for his part, believe that the present sacrifice of children was necessary to the success of the cotton manufactory.
 Sir Charles Burrell  could not help taking that opportunity to advert to the subject. He had had the honour of communicating with a noble Duke, a member of his Majesty's Government, who stated, that if the Beer Act was not altered in five years, it would demoralize the whole population of the country, and make them a set of drunkards and miscreants. The fact was, people went to these beer houses, not for the sake of good beer, but of
 1000
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, the only effect of granting the Commission would be to procrastinate the Bill. He wished to propose that the Bill should be suffered to pass, say for two years, or even for one year, and in the meantime a Commission could be granted to make inquiries, in order to ascertain whether the Bill should be continued for any longer period.
 Sir Edward Codrington , in explanation, observed, that he had said the right hon. Gentleman was, by the rules in the book, entitled to a pension at the end of five years' service. That was his statement, God knows, added the hon. Admiral, I well remember, that many—many years—all too many for the officers of the navy, was the right hon. Gentleman at the Admiralty's Board.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he had made communication about this matter in three official letters. He wrote to Lord Melville, requesting him to lay the letter before the right hon. Baronet; he did so because that was the more regular and business-like way, and he mentioned it afterwards to the right hon. Baronet's brother, Mr. William Peel.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he believed that the dock-yards were in a greater state of efficiency at the present moment than at any previous period. With respect to pensions, he must observe, that the clamour which was raised against the pensions given to officers who had long and faithfully served their country in active service, was most unjust; and the more especially so when the larger amount of the retiring incomes of those persons who had been connected with the civil service of the country was considered. What was greatly wanted was, that pensions should be fairly bestowed, and only given to those who had earned them by their services. In looking over the list of pensions and allowances, he found it stated, that the hon. G. A. C Stapyl-ton received 1,000 l l l 1046 l l l l l l 1047 s 1048 l s 1049 The Mirror of Parliament 1050 Galignani's Messenger Mirror of Parliament
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he should take the opportunity of asking this question again at another time, when he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would be better prepared.
 Sir George Staunton  felt himself called upon to say a few words in justification of the petitioners. He was himself personally acquainted with a great number of them, all of whom he knew to be of the highest respectability. The petitions from Portsmouth and Portsea were signed by a great number of persons of all persuasions—Churchmen, Dissenters, Whigs, and Tories; and he was quite satisfied that their only object in presenting the petition was to preserve the institutions of the country, and give the poor an opportunity of deriving some benefits which were given by these institutions.
 Sir George Staunton  presented Petitions from the Ministers, Churchwardens, Overseers, and Householders of the parish of Portsea,
 998
 Sir James Graham  referred to the statement made by Mr. Herries before the Finance Committee in 1828, to show, in opposition to the statements of the hon. member for Middlesex, that the first duty of the Government was to provide for the exigencies of the State, and that the revenue ought to be made to depend on those exigencies, and not the expenditure to depend on the revenue; that it was after the necessary expenditure was settled within the narrowest limits, that the Government ought to consider the ways and means for meeting it. The right hon. Baronet eulogised the financial talents of the right hon. member for Harwich, and stated that he looked upon that as a most valuable document.
 Sir James Graham  was content with the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, and he called upon the House to notice the consistency of that with the statement he had just made. He understood it to admit that the expenditure of the country should first be regulated with the strictest regard to economy, and that then the taxation of the country should be. regulated accordingly. The right hon. Gentleman
 1020
 Sir James Graham  rose to propose the Navy Estimates. He hardly, he observed, needed to impress upon the House the importance of the subject he was about to submit to their consideration, inasmuch as it was the first vote connected with the great and expensive establishments of the country which had yet been brought before a Reformed House of Parliament. The country, he believed, had looked forward to the occasion with great anxiety, and so had he, because he expected to meet Gentlemen returned to the House, the faithful representatives of the wishes of their constituents, and resolved to enforce the most rigid economy in every branch of the public service. He had looked, however, to this period without apprehension, because he was confident of the determination of his Majesty's Government to enforce all practical economy to the utmost extent; and he felt assured that the House would use proper precaution in dealing with those great establishments on which the safety and honour of the country mainly depended. He was satisfied that the House of Commons would in all the questions of finance, which would be submitted to it, act with due caution and deliberation in the work of alteration or revision, in order that they might not compromise the safety or honour of the
 1022 l 1023 l
 Sir James Graham  replied, that reductions had been effected up to the last year to the extent of 2,100,000 l l l
 Sir James Graham  objected to the reduction. The sinecures complained of were the colonelcies of marines, which were held by the most distinguished officers in the service. Would the House deprive such men as Lord Saumarez and Sir Sidney Smith, of the only especial reward they received for their long and arduous services?
 Mr. Guest  considered that, under the present circumstances of the country Ministers should adopt practical measures of economy. At the same time he must say, that, looking to the state of affairs in the east of Europe, and our relations with Holland, the reduction of men proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex was too great. He thought that Ministers might begin with a reduction of 2,000.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the hon. Admiral ought to have given him notice that he was to be called on to-night. He had at first intended to give an answer to this matter from the  Debates Mirror of Parliament Parliamentary Debates 1054 Galignani's Mirror of Parliament
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that if he did not rise immediately upon the hon. Admiral's sitting down, it was that he felt justice required that the explanation relative to a right hon. Gentleman who was absent should first be given. He must say, that in the whole course of the parliamentary experience of any man who now heard him, there had never been a more extraordinary appeal than that which the hon. Admiral had just made. In 1827, the battle of Navarino was fought. He (Sir Robert Peel) was recalled to office in 1828. A question was then put to him on the subject of the battle, or of the affairs of Greece, and it was his duty to give the best answer he could to it. In giving that answer, and in making some comment on the remarks on the subject of that engagement, it appeared that he had made some statement which had given offence to the hon. Admiral. The hon. Admiral said, that he had read that statement in  Galignani's Edtvard Codrington Mirror of Parliament Mirror 1053 of Parliament Galignani's Mirror of Parliament Galignani
 Sir Robert Price  contended, that the offices in question were not sinecures, properly so called, and that the cheapest and most advantageous mode of rewarding public services of the nature referred to, was by offices which carried with them honourable distinction, and at the same time some small emolument.
 Sir John Pechell  felt himself called upon to reply to the observations which the hon. and gallant Member had made with reference to the state of Portsmouth dock-yard. The gallant Officer stated that there was not the means of supplying a ship of the line with a lower mast, without taking it out of a ship in ordinary,—an expensive process which would not have been necessary, if proper care had been taken to provide a certain number in the dock-yard. As a measure of economy as well as of expediency the process objected to had an advantage. The mast-houses in the dock-yards were not intended to be store-houses, and it was found necessary to place the spare masts in ships in ordinary, from whence they could be removed as occasion required. It would be apparent to the House that these masts must decay if not occasionally supplied to such ships as required them, instead of those ships being supplied with new masts from the store in the dock-yard. If the gallant Officer had looked under water as carefully as he appeared to have looked in other places, he would have discovered a
 1045
 Lord Althorp  said, that he would second the hon. Member's motion, as he was sure that there was no other Gentleman of education and understanding in that House who would consent to do so. He seconded the motion, in order to be able to say a few words upon it. He was not at all surprised at the motion of the hon. member for Oldham, nor at the statements he had just made, since a few days ago, he declared that education was of no use, and that he was completely opposed to the higher branches of science. Happily there were no class of persons in the country, no matter what their circumstances might be, who agreed with the hon. Member on this point, and who could make up their minds to say that the first principles of science were of no use. The expense for promoting them should not be injudiciously squandered, he allowed, in fact not a single pound should be wasted, but this was very far from saving that no allowance at all should be made for the promotion of education and science. Institutions similar to the British Museum existed in every country. On this head England had always been accused of avarice, and in all civilized countries she was blamed, not for running into extremes for the encouragement of science, but for being over cautious in money-matters on this point. No one in that House could agree with the opinions expressed by the hon. Member.
 Lord Althorp  said, to reply to the first observation of his hon. friend, relative to the change in the financial year, his hon. friend had not correctly stated the objects which had been contemplated by Ministers in that alteration; but which, unfortunately, had not been accomplished. The intention had been, that the Estimates for the ensuing-year should be voted before the commencement of the financial year, and not that the statements of the revenue for the previous year should be laid before the House before the end of that year; that was plainly impossible. It was true that Ministers would not be able to get the Estimates for the ensuing year voted before the commencement of the year; but that was owing to the House having been so much occupied with more important business. The hon. Member gave, as his object in proposing his Resolutions, that Parliament and the country at large should be informed, in the first place, as to the state of the finances, before they voted the Estimates, so as to know exactly what they had to expend. This, he believed, was a fair statement of the hon. Member's proposed objects. He must say he had been somewhat surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman refer, in support of his views, to the Report of the Finance Committee. The recommendation of that Committee certainly was, that Parliament should not vote more than was absolutely necessary for the purposes of the State. It was unnecessary to cite this recommendation, for the principle it laid down was one which every government admitted, and the present Government was guided by—namely, to cut down taxation to the lowest possible
 1016 l l 1017
 Lord Althorp  explained. What he had said was quite the reverse. It would be utterly impossible for him to give the balance sheet of the year ending April 5th before April 5th came.
 Lord Ebrington , whilst he voted against the Amendment, wished to guard against being supposed to yield in this case upon an argument  ad misericordiam
 Viscount Palmerston  hoped, that the Mouse would not allow itself to be carried away by words. Sinecure was always an odious word in that House; but he denied that this question was one of sinecure or no sinecure. It was a question whether they should continue to reward meritorious officers, in a manner most congenial to their feelings. Those places were rewards, and cheap rewards, for gallant services performed towards the country, and it was most unjust to attach to them the name of sinecures. As to the argument, that it was not sought to deprive the present possessors of their honourable reward, he put it to the Committee, whether such must not be the inevitable result, if the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex was carried. His Majesty would be deprived hereafter of the means of giving those gallant officers that recompense which they had hitherto enjoyed, and to which they were so well entitled.
 Lord Sandon , in presenting similar Petitions from Stone, and two other parishes in Staffordshire, denied that the petitions originated in a combination of the large against the small tradesmen, as stated by the hon. member for Oldham; and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not favour the House with assertions which might have an effect, if not contradicted, of producing an incorrect impression.
 By the Speaker : What is your name?—Elizabeth Robinson. You were summoned as a witness to give evidence before the Liverpool Election Committee?—Yes. You were asked by that Committee questions which you refused to answer?—Yes. What were your reasons for declining to answer these questions?—I was afraid of my life. You were in apprehension of incurring personal risk?—I was: I feared for my life. Should you have still the same feelings of alarm, if you were called upon now to answer these questions?—I dare not answer that.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that the House could not effectually grant its protection to the witness, unless, as soon as she mentioned the name of the person who menaced her, it issued an order for his immediate arrest.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that when the House armed with its own powers the Committee, it might exact obedience to that Committee, in the same manner that it would exact obedience from persons called upon to give evidence at the Bar of the House. The House had always enforced answers to its questions, except in the case of Sir Abraham Bradley King, whose testimony was not considered of any great moment. The question arose out of a riot at Dublin, and it was contended that on account of the trifling nature of the circumstance it was not sufficient to justify the interference of the House. There was also the case of a medical man who was questioned as to something which had been stated to him confidentially in his practice, and he objected from motives of honour to answer, and was exonerated. No one could doubt the power of the House, to enforce answers, but there might be some question as to the propriety of exercising the power. If the members of the Committee, in the present instance, did not think the evidence of this witness material, they need not press to have their questions answered; but, having thought the evidence important, and having caused the witness to be brought before the House, the House had no other option
 1071
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the witness should be cautioned as to the probable consequences of persisting in her refusal.
 Colonel Torrens  said, he would vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester. Though he had paid considerable attention to the question before
 1101 1102 l. l. l. l. l. 1103 1104
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would vote for this inquiry. Adopting the sentiment of the last speaker, he would say it was inconsistent with common sense to refuse inquiry on the grounds which had been stated. The Motion did not pledge them to a Property-tax. All they had to do was to consider if it was proper to institute an inquiry whether the system of taxation might not be so altered as to press more upon property and less upon industry. The system of taxation at present was extremely unequal. The Assessed Taxes pressed heavier on the poorer classes than on the richer; and the small house in town was rated high, while the great house in the country was assessed at a comparatively low rate. The Stamp-duties also bore heavier on the lower classes than on the higher; and the excise in general was liable to the same objection. Nothing, indeed, was so blameable in point of principle as the excise with respect to improvements in manufactures. It seemed in fact actually to prohibit improvement, by introducing into the workshop a species of tyranny exercised by excise officers, without whom the imposts could not be enforced. It was a domestic and legal despotism which rendered changes in the process of manufacturing and of course improvements, almost impossible. The Motion did not, of necessity, involve any consideration of a Property or Income tax. It was merely a Motion for an inquiry. The House had already rejected a motion for an inquiry into the distress of the country; and since no relief hitherto had been promised, it was at least the
 1107
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  did not wish to protract a debate which was evidently drawing to a close. But having been pointedly alluded to by the hon. member for Worcester he must state, as concisely as possible, the opinions which he entertained upon the subject. He must first, however, congratulate the House upon the generosity which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had displayed in supporting the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester. From the terms in which the hon. and learned Member's observations were couched he could scarcely have heard the proposition, because he said that the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester was nothing more than a proposal for a Committee to inquire into the mode of distributing taxation, without having for its object the adoption or substitution of a Property-tax. It was plain that the hon. and learned Member, when he said, that, could not have heard the Motion as it was submitted by the hon. member for Worcester, because it contained not only the terms which, the hon. Member said, formed no part of it,—but the substitution of a Property-tax, for those which it was supposed bore more immediately and oppressively upon the people at large was clearly and avowedly the view taken of the subject by the hon. mover himself. One of the propositions, indeed of the hon. mover, and the argument upon which it was rested, was this—that whereas the Assessed Taxes which he proposed to remit were not at present paid by Ireland—a Property-tax if adopted, would be paid by that country. How the hon. and learned Gentleman then could suppose that in going into the proposed Committee the only consideration would be how taxation might best and most advantageously be transferred from one article of consumption to another, and not how a Property-tax might be substituted for the Assessed and many other taxes it was difficult to conceive. He gave the hon. and learned Gentleman the benefit of the view which he had taken of the question, and repeated his acknowledgment of the great generosity which he had exhibited. But he was anxious to draw the attention of the House to the specific Motion of the hon. member for Worcester, which, however it might have
 1108 l. 1109 l. 1110 1111 l. l. 1112 l. 1113 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that the object of the present Motion was not to embarrass or inconvenience Ministers, and that he should vote for it, on the general ground that it was expedient to institute an inquiry into the subject. No man would be pledged to the result of the investigation and it would afford the means of ascertaining whether any substitute could be found for 17,000,000 l.
 Mr. Bannerman,  as Chairman of the Committee, bogged to state, that the Committee had offered the witness every protection within its power.
 Mr. Bannerman,  the Chairman of the Liverpool Election Committee, moved the Order of the Day, that Elizabeth Robin-
 1068
 Mr. Harvey  was not at all surprised at the natural disinclination of Gentlemen, most of whom were men of large property, to hear arguments, the tendency of which was to show that property ought to be more heavily taxed than at present. That feeling of dislike would, however, be a lesson to the new Members (a larger body than had ever before appeared in Parliament). The mode in which the proposition of the hon. Member had been treated must show them, that it was very easy to
 1114 l. l. l. 1115 l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1116
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he was satisfied that the witness spoke the truth when she said that she had been intimidated; but this was not a sufficient reason for declining to answer the questions of the Committee. Those who intimidated her did so that she should become a cloak for crime; and, though innocent herself, she was to be considered as an instrument in the hands of criminal persons. She should be ordered to appear before the Committee to-morrow, and answer all questions that might be put to her.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to move, that a Select Committee be appointed to revise the existing Taxation, with a view to a Repeal of those burthens which press most heavily on productive industry, and the substitution of a tax upon property in lieu thereof. He was so sensible of his own inability to do justice to the very important subject which he had undertaken to bring before the House, and of the disadvantages under which he laboured in belonging to no party, and in being supported by none but those who were sensible of the rectitude of his intentions, that he should have shrunk from the task, if he did not consider it a duty he owed to his country to bring the subject fairly before the House. Hon. Members were to be found in the House of all diversity of opinions. There was hardly a shade of opinion which did not find its Representative; and there were few subjects on which they all could concur. On one subject, however, they did agree—namely, that in order to afford relief to the people, it was necessary to diminish taxation. Government had accordingly been assailed on all sides to remit taxes. The Government met the complaints, by saying—and he admitted with great truth—that it was necessary to maintain the national faith, and to support the establishments of the country, which could not be done if those taxes were abolished. The consequence had been, that taxes had been raised, in many instances, in order to meet the exigencies of the Government, or at all events had been but in very few instances remitted. For the three years during which he had had the honour of sitting in that House, he had paid considerable attention to the subject of taxation, and the conclusion at which he had arrived was, that as no great amount of taxation could be remitted, the only way in which relief could be communicated to the labouring classes, was by a commutation of the taxes. He was aware that unless he could make out a strong case for the adoption of his opinion, he could not expect his Majesty's Government to make so extensive a change in the whole system of taxation. He could assure the noble Lord, that, in bringing forward the suggestion, he was satisfied of its expediency, and he pledged himself to prove to the noble Lord, and to the House, that an absolute necessity did exist for making the change which he
 1073 1074 1075 1076 1077 * * * * * * 1078 l. l. l. 1079 l. l. 1080 * ad captandum vulgus * 1081 * * 1082 1083 * * 1084 1085 l. l. l. 1086 l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. 1087 l. l. l. l. l. 1088 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1089 1090 minimum l. l. l. l. l 1091
 Mr. Robinson  briefly replied, and the House divided. Ayes 155: Noes 221—Majority 66.
 By Mr. Robinson.  Have you been threatened by anybody, and what reason have you to suppose that you run personal risk in answering these questions?—I have been threatened by one person. Will you state to the House the name of that person?—I dare not mention his name.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to second the Motion. After the remarks which the hon. member for Worcester had made on him, the hon. Member could hardly expect that he would rise to second his Motion; but he was desirous of doing that. He could assure the House that there was no concert between the hon. Member and him. He had no objection to support a Motion for a specific inquiry; but he had opposed the Motion the other evening, because it was of so wide and vague and comprehensive a nature, that, had it been carried, all the petitions complaining of grievances, presented in the whole Session, ought necessarily to have been referred to that Committee. He objected to that Motion more particularly, because there was one subject of the inquiry which went to rescind all the contracts of the country. He objected to the extensive nature of the Motion the other evening, but he approved of the principle of this Motion. He considered it specific enough to engage the attention of a Committee, and there-
 1092 1093 1094
 Mr. Hoy  was glad to hear the opinions which had been uttered by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he should certainly vote with the noble Lord. Since he had been on the Treasury Bench, the noble Lord had learnt that a transmutation of taxes was not beneficial to the country. Employment, he agreed also with the noble Lord in saying, was of more consequence to the people than the mere remission of taxation. If fifteen millions of taxes, for example, were remitted to fifteen millions of tax payers, the relief to each would not be more than three farthings a-day. It was, therefore, clear that employment was of much more importance to the labouring classes than a diminution of taxation. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham that a graduated Property-tax would be nothing more nor less than a system of confiscation.
 Mr. Benett  moved that the Order be discharged.
 Mr. Benett  thought, that the witness did not object to answering other questions in furtherance of the views of the Committee.
 Mr. Nicholl : The questions she had already refused to answer were most material—to find out how certain sums had been disposed of. Particularly a sum of about 50 l. l. s. 1069
 Mr. Walter  said, that he should obtrude himself on the House for only a few minutes, in order to explain the grounds of his vote on this important question. The Motion brought forward by the hon. Gentleman was of a nature totally different from that made by the hon. member for Birmingham last week—was not liable to the same exceptions, and therefore ought not to undergo the same fate; though even that Motion died an honourable death, from the interesting nature of the subject to which it related—namely, the distresses of the people. But that Motion was general; and on that account was, he thought, properly rejected, as it proposed inquiry only. This Motion was specific, recommending to the consideration of the House a method of alleviating the public distress, or at least of abating the public dissatisfaction. He begged the House to consider what were the feelings of the country on the present state of taxation. No one imagined that the taxes could be wholly relinquished—that the Government of the country could be carried on without them; yet the cry against taxation was universal, and, in many respects, he thought, just. An hon. Baronet had, a few days ago, proposed the abrogation of the Malt-tax; he meant
 1105 1106
 Mr. Hume  congratulated the hon. member for Worcester upon the change of opinions which had taken place in his mind. He agreed with those hon. Members who said that taxes ought to be reduced, and, most of all, those taxes which pressed most heavily upon the working and industrious classes of society. The taxes upon society pressed most unequally. While there was no more than one per cent imposed upon the rich man, an amount of eight, ten, twelve, or perhaps twenty per cent was imposed upon the poor man. He must here observe, that he was surprised at what had fallen from the hon. member for Oldham; namely,
 1100 l l. l.
 Mr. Hume,  after stating his regret that any female should be so situated as the present witness was, submitted that it was
 1070
 Mr. Hume  opposed the Motion. He said, that the present inquiry, instituted by the Committee, related to bribery, and that the public were deeply interested in the matter. This witness declined answering questions which might lead to the discovery of those persons who had practised bribery. She also refused giving the name of the person who had threatened her; who, if he were not guilty, would have no reason to make use of intimidation. If the witness were discharged, and the matter allowed to drop, the object for which the Committee sat would be defeated.
 Mr. Pease  thought, that the appointment of a Committee might lead to some desirable commutation of taxes; and if the inquiry took place without delay, the result would possibly have an important effect upon the forthcoming Budget. Much of the present taxation bore with unjust and unnecessary severity upon the lower orders, and the inequality called loudly for a remedy. For example the Post-horse-duty was unjust, a man who hired a horse for fourteen days as many of the middle classes did, paid one guinea duty, but a man who hired a horse for a whole year, as many of the rich did, paid only the guinea. Again, stones dug from the quarry paid no duty, quarries were, however, generally the property of the rich, bricks were made by the labour of the poor and they paid duty. He contended that there was a clear and an important distinction between a Property-tax and an Income-tax, much in favour of the former. One great advantage of a Property-tax would be, that it could be
 1118 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the real question at issue was, whether that House was, under any circumstances, to be stopped in investigating any matter it might think fit to make inquiry into; and whether the bare assertion of one intimidated party was sufficient to prevent investigation? He thought that if the House acquiesced in such a denial, it would be departing from the general principles by which it was directed in its proceedings. Were the questions put to this witness by the Committee material and necessary ones? If they were, and it seemed by having the witness called before that House that they were, the House would not be discharging its duty either for the present or for the future, if the witness was allowed to be discharged. By doing so the House would be encouraging every timid or unwilling witness, and frequently witnesses for corrupt purposes would decline giving the evidence required of them. If the House acquiesced in the discharge of the present witness, it would do what no Court of Justice in the land would consent to. The House could not allow the matter to rest as it was, without declaring itself utterly unfit for its high avocations, and might, in such cases, as well at once abdicate all its acknowledged principles.
 Mr Cobbett  would vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester, not because he thought a graduated Property-tax just, but because he thought it right to get rid of the whole of the present system of taxation. A graduated Property-tax was neither more nor less than confiscation. The House must see—Ministers must see—that in all measures of taxation introduced, the poor were ground down and oppressed, while the rich were allowed to escape almost scot free. Under all the circumstances of the case, he felt bound to support the Motion which bad been so ably brought forward by the hon. member for Worcester.
 The Speaker  then addressed the witness to the following effect:—The House has listened to you with attention, and has not seen in your statements any sufficient reason why you should refuse to answer the questions put to you by the Committee before which you were summoned as a witness. The House expects that you will not persist in your refusal, but that you will henceforth answer the questions put to you by the Committee. Whilst the House expects this from you, it assures you at the same time that you may confidently depend on its justice, and on its entire protection. For the present, the House is satisfied with admonishing you, as you are labouring under a mistake. But you must learn, that if you continue to refuse answering the questions of the Committee, it will be at your own risk and peril, as you must in that case be committed to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms, as one guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House. On the one hand, the House points out to you the danger of non-compliance with its orders; and, on the other, it declares to you that you may safely rely on its protection, and it enjoins you therefore to act as an honest and upright witness, in answering fully all the questions that the Committee may think fit to ask of you.
 The Speaker  considered that the right hon. Gentleman had taken a correct view of this question. The House had heard the statements of the witness, and there was not sufficient reason assigned in them for her refusing to answer the proposed questions, when she had been assured that she might do so with safety. As for the motion to have the Order of the Day discharged, there was no Order to discharge, since the only one—that the witness attend the House—was already complied with. He would ask whether it was the pleasure of the House that the witness be recalled?
 Sir Edward Codrington  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, that he had written to Lord Melville, the then first Lord of the Admiralty, the moment he saw a report of the right hon. Baronet's speech, contradicting the right hon. Baronet's statement, with the understanding that Lord Melville would communicate his contradiction to the right hon. Baronet, his colleague. He thought that the most delicate way. After that he mentioned the circumstance to Mr. William Peel.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that if what had been attributed to the right hon. Baronet, or what he had said, were ten times as strong, the moment he heard him deny that he had any intention to east any blame on him he was perfectly satisfied.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he would hand the report to him.
 Sir Edward Codrington : I do not now exactly remember the exact time. My impression is, that it is not three years ago; but I cannot speak positively.
 Sir Edward Codrington  observed that he saw the statement in the  Mirror of Parliament.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he felt totally unequal to make himself, by mere eloquence, be supported by any party in that House. Fortunately for him, the question turned upon simple facts; and if what the right hon. Baronet had just stated had been stated last night, this present discussion would not have occurred. If the right hon. Baronet had, at any former time, been kind enough to say as much in answer to his application for redress, as he had said I that evening, the House would never have heard any complaint from him. Situated as he was when the speeches alluded to were made—filling a station in which, if he acted contrary to orders, the deepest sensation would have been excited throughout this country and throughout Europe—he then and now thought it necessary to have the matter completely cleared up. He had never mentioned such a number as 16,000 Greek slaves—this was only the number supposed by Sir Robert Wilson; nor had he ever said, that the report in Galignani's paper was to be relied on. The reason he alluded to the report of that paper was, that it was the first that reached him—as it is the first that circulates on the Continent containing English reports; and, having seen it first, he thought it of the greatest importance to contradict the report in it, "that he had disobeyed his orders, and that full power was given him to prevent the transmission to Egypt of Greek slaves." When he first
 1132 Galignani 1133 Galignani 1134
 Sir Edward Codrington  had not said that Lord Melville had spoken to the right hon. Gentleman; he only thought it strange that Lord Melville had not. Some time afterwards he met Mr. William Peel, and told him, that he (Sir Edward Codrington) thought, that his brother (Sir Robert Peel) had made statements in Parliament injurious to his character, and requested him to get that injurious statement set right. Still, however, nothing was done. If he had been wanting in courtesy to the right hon. Baronet yesterday in bringing this question so unexpectedly forward, he was unintentionally so, and tendered his apology for it to the House. He was desirous to preserve courtesy to all men; and if the right hon. Baronet would, as a favour, accept from him the copy of a little work which he had published on this matter, and which contained no remarks, but only public documents, he would see, from the nature of Lord Dudley's letter, which he read, that he had not, in any degree, transgressed his orders. The right hon. Baronet might think him too sore upon this point; but he trusted that the right hon. Baronet would consider the treatment which he had met with. He had been superseded from his command without a Court-martial, when the mere fact of
 1135
 Sir Robert Bateson  contended, that the witness ought not to be discharged, as it was of the greatest consequence that the Committee should be made acquainted with every circumstance that tended to a discovery of the truth. The only question was, whether the laws were sufficient to protect her or not, if she spoke the truth. If they were, she ought not to be discharged.
 Sir Robert Peel  agreed with the right, hon. Gentleman. The Committee had pursued the only course that was left open to it; and he, therefore, thought that the House had no other alternative, if the witness still persisted, but the exercise of its power as an ultimate resource.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as the hon. and gallant Admiral had now stated he had not had any intention of making any personal remarks upon him, he was bound to say, that nothing was further from his intention than to have said anything that was painful to the feelings of the hon. Admiral, At the same time, he must observe in his own justification, that the hon. Admiral had made use of very strong expressions, which, together with the unexpected call made on him last night for an explanation, had made him reply, perhaps, rather warmly. It appeared that there was a difference between them as to the instructions that had been sent out to the hon. Admiral, which was the only point at issue. He should now only add, that if, two days ago, the hon. Admiral had placed in his hands the book now referred to, and had asked him whether he had made a statement with any intention of casting blame upon him, the gallant Admiral surely could not doubt that he should have at once denied any intention of giving pain to the hon. Admiral. Whatever he had said was the result of the hasty attack that had been made upon him. The hon. Admiral had asked him to read a certain pamphlet; in return, he wished to be allowed to intreat the hon. Admiral to read that which, as far as it could be so, was an authentic account of what he had stated on the occasion in question. He should only add now, that he had not any recollection whatever of Lord Melville having made any communication to him on this subject.
 Sir Robert Peel : Lord Melville never spoke to me on the subject.
 Sir Robert Peel : Certainly wherever the gallant Admiral saw the statement, it was not in any of the reports to which he had referred, and by which as they were in exact conformity with what he had said, he was ready to abide. Of this he was certain, that within three days at most after the arrival of the news in England, a despatch on the subject was sent, not to the gallant Admiral opposite, but to Mr. Barker, the British resident at Constantinople. That despatch required immediate inquiry into all the facts, and the utmost efforts to procure the release and restoration of the captives. These things he knew to be facts, and he could not doubt them. When he was asked what steps had been taken for the redemption of the Greek captives, of course he replied by referring to the communications made to Mr. Barker, by whom the steps were to be taken. What was the impression made upon the House by his statement? Did the House think that he had not acted fairly towards the gallant
 * 1130 Chronicle The Times Chronicle Hansard's Debates 1131
 Sir Robert Peel  appealed to the House, whether the impression conveyed by the gallant Officer's statement last night was not, that he had communicated with Mr. William Peel on the subject recently. At least, most certainly, that was his own impression. Well, the gallant Officer had at last brought forward his charge—confident of justice and redress from that Reformed Parliament. He could tell the gallant Officer that he did not appeal to that Reformed Parliament with more confidence than he did. He had not solicited the attendance of a single friend; if any of his friends chanced to be present, it was merely accidental. He cared not that the tribunal was a Reformed Parliament, for he knew that he was addressing an assembly of English Gentlemen who, as such, would be incapable of permitting themselves to be for a moment influenced by party or political feelings in judging of a question of a personal nature. No reformer in that House could have a more implicit reliance on its honour and equity. The question then was, not what might have appeared in some foreign newspaper, as the report of his sentiments respecting the gallant Officer's conduct, but whether he, in the exercise of his duty as a Minister of the Crown, did make a statement in his place in Parliament inconsistent with fact,
 1121 The Times Morning Chronicle. Hansard's Parliamentary Debates The Times The Times Morning Chronicle The Times Morning Chronicle 1122 * * 1123 * * 1124 * The admiral, to whom the task of watching the port of Navarino shall be allotted, by mutual agreement betwixt himself and his colleagues, should be instructed to hold out, in concert with him, every inducement to the Pacha of Egypt, and to his son, to withdraw the Egyptian ships and land forces altogether from Greece, and to assure them that every facility and protection will be given for their safe return to Alexandria; but he is, on no account, to enter into any stipulation for allowing the ships to return to Alexandria without the troops. * 1125 Secret instruction. Annexed C. to the protocol 15th October. It is thought expedient, not only that the regular commerce of neutrals; that is, such as is not carried on in order to aid the belligerents, should proceed uninterrupted, but that interruption should be confined to neutrals sailing under the convoy of Turkish ships of war. * * †Ibid. p. 1438. ‡Ibid. 1439. 1126 Sir Edward Codrington: Memorandum of a Conference held at Alexandria, on the 6th of August, 1828, between Sir Edward Codrington and the Pacha of Egypt. The Admiral said, that the only circumstance that might remove any objections on the part of his Government, would be an engagement by his Highness to do everything in his power towards obtaining the liberty of as many Greek slaves as possible—that his Highness was aware how loud the cry had been both in England and France on this subject, and more particularly by the deportation which took place subsequently to the battle of Navarino. His Highness stated positively that not one slave had been made subsequent to that battle—that 1,900 Greeks were brought over; 1,200 Candiotes—greatest part wives of officers and soldiers. The Admiral observed, that the not having prevented the return of those ships containing slaves, was a great cause of complaint against him, so that he must do everything which he could to procure their release. Hansard * Hear from Sir Edward Codrington. * 1127 1128 * * † Ibid. 1440. ‡ Ibid. 1441. § Ibid. 1441. 1129 Hansard's Debates * Galignani's
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he would abide by the reports to which he had referred. The hon. and gallant Officer had not pointed out to him the observations of which he complained in the  Mirror of Parliament.
 Sir Robert Peel : What time was that?
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that an opportunity might be conceded to him of saying a few words to explain the language respecting the proceedings connected with the affair at Navarino, which had been complained of by the gallant Admiral opposite. The House, he took for granted, would bear in mind, that for the last three years he had been without any notification from the gallant Admiral that he had any the most remote intention of bringing the subject under the consideration of Parliament. It had been, however, brought before the House; and he felt it due, not only to the House, but to the gallant Admiral and to himself, to explain how the matter really stood; he likewise felt it was due to all parties that he should postpone making that explanation until he should have had an opportunity of rendering it satisfactory by consulting all the means of information within his reach. Had he made any accusation against the gallant Admiral under the influence of error, or if, in full possession of the facts, he had stated them to the House in a spirit of hostility or unfairness towards the gallant Admiral, no lapse of time should have prevented him from doing tardy justice to a party aggrieved; but in the same proportion as he
 1120
 Lord Althorp  did not accuse the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion of any intention to embarrass the Government. On the contrary, he thought it was a fair Motion, and the hon. Gentleman had brought it forward only, he believed, with a view of stating his own opinions to the House. He did not object to the Motion, because it was his duty, as a Member of his Majesty's Government, to bring forward, if necessary, such Motions; for if the hon. Member chose to save him the trouble of making a financial statement to the House, he should not make any serious objection. He must first allude to what the hon. Gentleman said of the duties of his situation. He admitted that the duty of his situation was to state the truth concerning the affairs of the country. He had always endeavoured to do that. Nothing was so absurd or so injurious as for a statesman to boast of a prosperity which did not exist. At the same time it was his duty not to overlook any advantages, and he was not bound to make the public distress greater than it really was. It was his duty at all times, and on every topic, to state to the House fully and fairly, exactly what he thought on the subject. With respect to what the hon. Gentleman said of his having given his assent to a similar Motion in 1830, when made by his right hon. friend (Mr. Poulett Thomson), it should, however, be remembered that the Motion then made was for the revision of taxation, and it did not apply to a Property tax. At the same time, he would fairly admit, that he had on that occasion used expressions such as those the hon Member alluded to, and had expressed himself favourable to a Property tax. He knew that he had stated, that, though he was opposed to a Property tax in 1816, yet subsequent experience taught him that it might be adopted. He stated then in 1830, that this change of opinion had been brought about by longer experience. But since 1830, he had had a great deal more experience, and experience of a kind calculated to take more effect on his mind than any experience he had had before. His opinion in 1830 certainly was, that a change might be made in the taxation of the country; but, if he had then seen the many difficulties which had since been thrown in the way of making such an experiment, he should probably not have been of that opinion. What was the first
 1096 1097 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1098 l. l. l. l. 1099
 Lord Althorp  also thought it proper that the witness should be fully informed of the protection that the House could extend to her; and then that the necessary answers should be insisted upon.
 Viscount Palmerston  was unwilling to prolong unnecessarily a conversation which had ended in a manner so satisfactory to the House; but haying been
 1136 1137
 Mr. O'Connell  would support the exclusion of those words. He thought he had done wrong by supporting it on the former occasion and the best amends he could then make was by speaking and voting for the exclusion. Surely the Lord-lieutenant would not proclaim every district because tithes were not paid. And yet unless that were supposed the proviso was directed to what could not happen. He must say that he thought that the right hon. Secretary's declaration about the "extinction of tithes," had militated more against the clergy of the Established Church than any other cause.
 Mr. Stanley  said, he must confess that the argument of the hon. and learned member for Dublin was the most extraordinary he could ever have expected to
 1150 Robert Peel: O'Connell 1151
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman challenged him to give an instance in which he had advocated a proceeding injurious to the present interests of the clergy. He would ask, when he applauded the resistance to the payment of tithes, whether he regarded that as a resistance to the rights of the present incumbents, or to the duties merely of the collectors?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was against the present incumbents—yet this opinion was perfectly consistent with his proposition. With the spiritual arrangements of the church he had nothing to do—with its temporalities he had.
 Mr. Wynn  stood there to protect the
 1152
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to propose three additional clauses to the Bill. The first would make an alteration to which he did not anticipate that there would be any objection. He wished that the powers granted by this Bill to the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland should be suspended, in the event of a dissolution of Parliament, until the meeting of a new Parliament; and that these powers should also be taken away in the cases of all boroughs for which new writs shall be issued. He did not extend his clause to the proclaimed districts but only to those which had not been proclaimed. The principle of the clause was so perfectly fair, that there could be no reasonable objection to it. As the Bill stood, the Lord-lieutenant, at his will and pleasure would have the power to declare any assembly illegal. The Judge and Jury would have nothing to do with the character of the meeting; it would be sufficient to produce proof of attendance at a prohibited meeting, to render it imperative on a Jury to convict. Ought such a state of things to exist at the time of a contested election? The Lord-lieutenant would have the power of prohibiting the meeting of the friends of those candidates who might be disagreeable to himself; and, in point of fact, would be able to exercise complete control over all the elections in Ireland. It was not sufficient that a candidate should have the power of making his opinions known to the electors by means of advertisements it was necessary that he should be able to make his sentiments known to them at public meetings, where they could question him. If the Amendment were not assented to, it would be said, that the supporter of the Government would be allowed to hold his meetings, but that the candidate in the adverse interest would be prevented doing so. He had no wish to make this clause applicable to districts where there were agrarian disturbances. The hon.
 1156
 Mr. Stanley  said, he felt it his duty to oppose the clause. Undoubtedly it was not likely, at least he hoped not, that the Bill would be of sufficient duration to comprehend a dissolution of Parliament; but if such an event were to occur as a dissolution, it was well known that there was no occasion on which agitation would have such full scope for operation. He readily allowed that it was dangerous to admit of unconstitutional interference in elections, yet he was apprehensive that if, in the present slate of Ireland, the Lord-lieutenant were not armed with the powers of which the clause proposed by the hon. and learned member for Dublin went to deprive him, greater evils might ensue. Balancing between the undue intimidation at elections which, in the present state of Ireland, the despotism of political agitation would certainly occasion, and the possibility, not the probability, that the power which the Bill as it stood vested in the Lord-lieutenant might be abused, and adding to this the consideration that the case to which the operation of the Bill would apply was not likely to occur, he was of opinion that it would not be advisable to adopt the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Member.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that if it could be proved that at any election the undue intimidation alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman had been used, that election would necessarily become void. To apply the provisions of the Bill to meetings for the purpose of election, was to trample under foot the first principles of a Representative Legislation. There was only one case in the late elections—that of the county of Carlow—in which such an allegation had been made. That case had not yet been tried, but he had heard it reported to-day that the sitting Members did not think it expedient to defend their seats. He protested against the cant and slang which was constantly poured forth by the other side of the House on the subject of political agitation in Ireland. Having at present the strongest laws against any undue influence in elections, the question for the Committee now to determine was, whether they would allow
 1157
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the opposition of the hon. Member to the clause, although inconsistent in one respect, was consistent in another: for the hon. Member might not think it prudent to go again before his constituents without a gagging Bill. By the Bill as it now stood, and without the clause which he (Mr. O'Connell) proposed, it would be in the power of the Magistracy to trample on the elective franchise of the people [ no, no!
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was very well for the noble Lord to state that the Lord-lieutenant would put the Act in force on his own responsibility. Responsibility, indeed! Why such observations were perfectly ludicrous. Supposing he proclaimed a county, and the Act was after-
 1161 ex-parte
 Mr. Stanley  said, the hon. and learned member for Dublin had forced him up, by coming forward with a charge, not against
 1162
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was perfectly willing to agree to the proposition of the hon. and learned member, if it could possibly be carried into effect. He should now take the opportunity of making one or two observations upon the subject of the interference of the Government with the Dublin election. It had been denied that the Government had interfered; he had documents to prove that interference. The contrary assertion rested chiefly upon the note of the Lord-lieutenant, which was in these words:—"I desire it to be distinctly understood that the Government will not take any part in the Dublin election.—Anglesey." What was the document on the other side? It was a letter, relating to what had passed between the writer and Alderman Darley, and between Alderman Darley and Sir William Gossett. The Alderman and another gentleman had called at the office of Sir William Gossett, and Alderman Darley left the room and went up-stairs to ask what were the intentions of the Government; and shortly after wardsreturned, and said, that Sir William Gossett had
 1165
 Mr. Stanley  was not prepared at this moment to answer the observations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin with respect to the conversations with Sir William Gossett; but he should like to ask whether there had not been any subsequent documents that explained the account given of the conversation by Alderman Darley, and which showed that the effect of that conversation with Sir William Gossett had been misrepresented by Alderman Darley? He did not mean to cast any imputation on Alderman Darley, than whom there could not be a more honourable mail; but he believed that there was evidence to show that the Alderman had been mistaken. Whatever might have been the statement thus erroneously made, he knew perfectly well what were the feelings of the Government on the occasion in question. The Government had no predilection whatever with respect to the candidates. Nothing was more likely, or more probable than that Alderman Darley should have gone on the part of Mr. West, who was most unexpectedly a candidate, and should have asked what was
 1166
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he should propose another clause in the same spirit, but move limited in its extent than the last. His Amendment was, that in every case of a new writ issuing for the election of a Member during the continuance of this Parliament, from the issuing of that writ until its return, the powers of this Act should be suspended in the place where such election was to be had.
 Mr. Wynn  saw good reason, in the state of this country, and in the state of the colonies, to keep up the army; but he saw no reason to keep up this force in the present state of Europe. If a large standing array was to be kept up on the ground of confidence in the Reformed Parliament, Reform would be a curse to the country. It was not a sufficient justification of our keeping up a large army that other States kept up large armies. He and his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had opposed this principle seventeen years ago with success.
 Lord John Russell  said, that former acts provided for the extra protection of tithes, and they were therefore recognised as in a better situation than rents. It was therefore the less necessary to increase the protection to tithes by this Bill. In fact it did what the right hon. Gentleman wished—namely, placed property of every description on the same footing.
 Major Beauclerk  seconded the Amendment. He complained of the immense army maintained in the colonies, and especially in Corsica and the Greek islands. In the latter, the troops were employed against the liberties of Greece, and in support of the Turks, and created hatred to this country, and suspicion of its intentions. He thought the maintenance of those islands not only useless but mischievous; and the expense, in the present state of the country, was intolerable; he therefore begged to ask the right hon. Secretary at War, why they were not given up to Greece?
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the clause proposed by his hon. and learned friend might be opposed by those who had confidence in his Majesty's Government, but that it could not be expected that he, who had no confidence in his Majesty's Government should do otherwise than support it. In illustration of the inexpediency of imposing such restrictions at elections as his hon. and learned friend's clause went to remove, he instanced the case of America, in which no limit was put upon the license of people at elections, a liberty which had been found very beneficial. It might be maintained by some that the authority against the undue exercise of which the clause proposed by his hon. and learned friend was directed, would, in all probability, not be abused by the present Government; but let it be recollected, that the present Government might have successors who would not be so chary in the use of their power.
 Mr. Daniel Gaskell  presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood of Wakefield, against the Irish Disturbances Bill. Ashe had opposed the first and second reading of this Bill, he cordially concurred with the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, that he had never made any unfounded charges against the voters in Galway on the occasion alluded to by the hon. member for Meath, and appealed to the present hon. member for Galway whether he had not signed the petition on the subject? But he was not surprised at the sympathy which the hon. member for Meath appeared to feel for fictitious voters; as, if he (Mr. D. Browne) were not mistaken, the hon. member himself had had something to do with fictitious voters in Dublin.
 Mr. Shaw  must say, in answer to the appeal to him from the hon. member for Meath, that the hon. Member was rather unfortunate in his selection of him as a witness to prove the benefit of Government influence at elections; for, independently of Trinity College, he had had three contested elections where Government were opposed to him, and on one of those occasions he had succeeded against the hon. Member himself notwithstanding—but he did not wonder at that hon. Member advocating agitation at elections, for he believed that since the time he alluded to, that hon. Member had found it very convenient in his own case, and successful in displacing (in the hon. Member's
 1160
 Mr. Shaw  said, in explanation, that Sir William Gossett had not published any denial of the statement of Mr. West and Mr. Boyton; and that the right hon. Gentleman's observations about Sir William Gossett and Alderman Darley could not explain away the evidence to which he (Mr. Shaw) had principally alluded—for it was in addition to, and independent of, what they had said and done altogether.
 Mr. Shaw : If the right hon. Gentleman was sorry that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had forced him up, I have also to express my regret that the right hon. Gentleman has forced me to rise. I have no desire to be the partizan of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, or to cast the slightest imputation on the high personal honour of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland; but I feel it due to the House to correct the right hon. Gentleman in a fact with respect to which I am sure he has been misinformed, but of which I am in possession; and when I hear a statement made which involves the truth and honour of personal friends of my own, I am bound to vindicate them The right hon.
 1163 Cheers, from the Ministerial side 1164
 Mr. Shaw  moved, that the clause should be restored to the Bill which gave to two justices of the peace the power to suppress an unlawful assembly, by the summary conviction of those who did not disperse within fifteen minutes after the notice was read. He declared that to have been the great object of the 10th of George 4th. cap. 1, from which the portion of the Bill then under discussion was taken; and that its omission would be fatal to the efficiency of the measure, so far as regarded political agitation. As the clause stood (with the omission) it was made a misdemeanor to be present at a prohibited meeting at all, even for a moment—and, then, still but a misdemeanor to remain there for the fifteen minutes after the notice to disperse had been read. This almost involved an absurdity; but, besides, it deprived the Magistrates of the salutary powers to put down such meeting by the force of summary punishment on their own responsibility, if necessary. Besides after they should have bound over a party to take his trial by indictment for a misdemeanor, that same party might return to, and continue at the same meeting. He considered that the most important provisions of the Bill had been frittered away I and that the Government acted most un-
 1155
 Mr. Shaw  moved the omission, at the end of the clause, of the following proviso, which had been introduced in the progress of the Bill:—"Provided always that it shall not be lawful for the Lord-lieutenant to apply the provisions of this Act to any county or district merely because tithes shall have not been paid in such county or district." He could not believe that Government seriously meant to retain these words after their own admission, that these words were both inefficient and foolish. Their tendency was to weaken the clause, as well as to draw an invidious distinction between the property of the clergy and all other property. He trusted the words would be expunged without a discussion.
 Mr. Shaw  stated, in reply, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland said very truly that no new argument had been adduced against the proviso since the last vote of the Committee on the subject, for every argument had been used against it, as well by those who voted against it, as by the members of the Government who had voted for it. He then saw in their places both his Majesty's Attorney and Solicitor General, and if either of them would say—not that the proviso was an improvement—but even that it was not prejudicial to the Bill, he would withdraw his amendment
 Mr. George Wood  wished to call the attention of the House to the state of the list on which hon. Members put down their names to be called on to present petitions. He had put clown his name on that list at the commencement of the present Session, and it was not until this day that it had come to his turn to present his petitions; and that must be his excuse to his constituents for not having performed his duty earlier. On looking over the list, the other day, he found many hundred names down, so that he stood but very little chance of having another opportunity for some time to come; but what he most complained of was, that some hon. Members' names occurred more than once in that list; nay, more, one hon. Member's name occurred no less than eight times. Now, he apprehended that such a course was dealing most unfairly by other hon. Members and their constituents; and he trusted that the House would adopt some mode of putting a stop to it.
 Mr. Aglionby  was not surprised at the scene which had just taken place, as nothing but assertions, contradicting assertions, had been brought forward throughout the whole discussion of this Bill; but he much regretted it. There was one point to which he was anxious to call the attention of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, which was, that if his Amendment was carried, there would be no power under this Bill from the period of the conclusion of the ejection till the time of the next meeting of Parliament. He would suggest that his Amendment should have effect only during the interval between the dissolution of Parliament and the conclusion of the election. He would not say the power would be exercised by the Lord-lieutenant, but if the Act allowed him to do it, then ought the House to agree to the Amendment.
 Mr. Barron  thought the Legislature ought to lay it down as a principle that this Bill was not intended for the collection of tithes; and he would therefore support the clause as it stood. Not that he expected to be able to reconcile the people of Ireland to the measure by inserting this proviso; for he looked upon the Bill altogether as the most mischievous and atrocious measure that was ever introduced into that House.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  supported the proviso, because he deemed it to be of great importance that the people of Ireland should not have reason to believe that this Act would be brought into operation against them on account of their resistance to the payment of tithes.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  appealed to the House, whether the attack which had been made upon him was honest, just, fair, or generous? He might retaliate if he chose, but he disdained to do so. He knew that of former Irish Governments of which an honest Englishman would be ashamed to hear. He well knew that Calcutta of Ireland, the Castle of Dublin [" Question
 Mr. Henry Grattan  must say, that the interference of the police in Ireland, not only at elections, but on all other occasions had been the cause, as all those knew who lived in Ireland, of much mischief. As to elections they had not been productive in Ireland of violence. The county of Mayo had been represented as in such a state of disturbance, as to require the operation of the Act, yet no outrage had taken place at any popular election in that county. What was the main cause of the present disturbed state of Ireland? Why the gentry were taking one part, and the people another. The gentry of Ireland had lost much by the conduct which they had pursued; they had made a great mistake when they dethroned themselves in the affections of the people, and having lost the power which they formerly possessed, sought to recover it by undue means. They made enemies of the people and were now anxious to guard themselves against those who were formerly their friends. Fifteen members of the Grand Jury of the county of Meath and fifty-two Magistrates of the county of Westmeath had presented a memorial to the Lord-lieutenant for the extension of the provisions of the Insurrection Act to those counties; but his hon. colleague and himself had succeeded in preventing
 1159 s
 Sir Henry Hardinge  regretted, that in consequence of being unavoidably absent elsewhere, he had been prevented from making certain statements in reply to the petition and charges of the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets, relative to the conduct of his friend General Darling. As he understood, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had postponed his Motion to some day in May, he should then urge some statements in defence of his friend.
 Mr. Lambert  felt it necessary briefly to
 1153 1154 Dublin Morning Register
 Mr. Lambert  remarked, that if his Majesty's Government in Ireland were guilty of any abuse of the power vested in them by the Bill, that abuse might be brought under the consideration of the House, who would redress it. To him it appeared, that, whoever might be at the head of agitation in Ireland, and who must therefore feel himself responsible for the effect of that agitation, which, nevertheless, he could not control, would be relieved by the operation of the Bill, and would receive a sort of  congé d'elire
 Mr. Lambert  was not afraid to meet his constituents. Let his constituents be freed from any undue influence, and he could assure the hon. and learned member for Dublin that he had no apprehension whatever of submitting his conduct to their opinion. He could tell the hon. and learned Gentleman, that if he (Mr. Lambert) had thought it an object to be so, he could have been applauded, followed, and admired, by all those bad parties by whom he was now so bitterly attacked, and might have had all the pure votes of all the blood-stained agitators of his country. As it was, he was perfectly satisfied to bear all the odium of the vote which he was about to give. In the course which he had pursued, he had sought nothing but the ultimate welfare and happiness of
 1158
 Mr. Warburton  wished the discussion not to be prolonged, and the division tobe taken on the next Resolution.
 Mr. Wilks  had had many applications made to him on the subject of the new police, both in the last Session and the present. He was one who much opposed the introduction of such a force; but the Bill having been passed, he was willing that the system should have a full and fair trial. Nearly all the information that could be got by a Select Committee was already before the House by the papers that were laid on the Table every year. If, in those papers, a statement was made of the pay to the several grades of the men employed, and the expense incurred for clothing, the House would have every information before them they could wish on the subject. The only fault that he could find with the police was, that on many occasions, when they were most wanted, there was a difficulty in finding
 1140
 Mr. Hume  supported the prayer of the petition, with which he entirely concurred. He had long been informed of its contents, and if he had persisted in the Motion of which he had given notice with respect to the conduct of General Darling, that officer's treatment of Captain Robinson would have formed one of his charges. It was the duty of the Government to take up the case, so that the time of that House might not be occupied by matters immediately belonging to the Government. He was informed by many most respectable persons in this country, that every one of the allegations in the petition could be proved, and, of course, that gross injustice had been done to the petitioner. This was a question for the consideration of the Government, and one which they should be most anxious to sift to the bottom. He would take that opportunity of stating, that it was not his intention to bring forward his Motion with respect to General Darling's conduct at present, as he considered he would best consult the wishes of the House by abstaining from ripping up old abuses, but he trusted the present inquiry would be pursued with all diligence.
 Mr. Hume  proceeded. He had heard, he said, a great many allegations from the right hon. Secretary, but must confess that he could not place altogether implicit confidence in their infallibility. He had himself several statements on all the subjects mentioned by that hon. Gentleman, and must say, that either his own statement or that hon. Gentleman's must be essentially wrong, for they differed from each other. The right hon. Baronet had stated, that there had been a reduction of 276,000 l l l l l l 1177 l l l 1178 1179 1180 l s l s The House at this period showed many symptoms of impatience 1181 1182
 Mr. Hume  would put it to the House whether, at this late hour of the night—twelve o'clock—it would be advisable to proceed with the discussion. For himself, he was fully prepared with what he had to say on the subject, but he made the suggestion in accordance with the wishes of all those around him, and many others who had to work in Committee to-morrow morning. He appealed to the House as to the adviseableness of proceeding.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was opposed to the proviso, which was as useless as it was ridiculous. Had the proviso stated, in express terms, that where the payment of tithes was resisted this Act should not be applied to enforce such payment, it might have been of some avail.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that he was not in office at the period alluded to. From the nature of the petition, and from the manner in which it had been brought under the notice of the House by his hon. and learned friend, it was his (Mr. R. Grant's) duty, if in his power, to meet the allegations of the petition. But, besides other documents, the proceedings of the Court-martial alone comprised the contents of three enormous folio volumes. It was therefore impossible for him to go through such a mass of evidence in time to give any individual opinion; and he felt called upon to offer that explanation, upon the
 1147
 Dr. Lushington , in moving that the petition do lie on the Table, said, that he would have given General Darling a longer notice, but it was impossible for him so to do, as he did not know until Monday that he should be able to present the petition to-day. He trusted that, in presenting it, he had made use of no expressions from himself that reflected on that gallant Officer's character. In answer to his right hon. friend (Mr. Grant) who, he was glad to perceive, gave no opinion on the merits of the petition, he thought it the best and most satisfactory mode that the minutes of the Court-martial should be laid before the House. He, therefore, gave notice that on Thursday the 23rd May, he would move for the production of the papers.
 Dr. Lushington  had a petition to present, to which it was his duty particularly to call the attention of the House, from a gentleman named Robert Robinson, late a captain in his Majesty's service, and who, after serving twenty-five years in various parts of the world was afterwards sent out, in 1825, being then a captain on the half-pay of the 17th Light Dragoons, to command a corps of out-pensioners in New South Wales. The petition complained of the treatment which that gentleman had met with from General Darling, Governor of New South Wales, during his residence there, and more especially of the illegal proceedings of a Court-martial by which he was tried and convicted. He had been requested to present the petition to a former Parliament; but such was the press of business arising from the discussions on the Reform Bill, that, from the period it had come into his hands, in consequence of the lamented death of his late right hon. friend Sir James Mackintosh, he had had no opportunity of bringing it forward till now, so particularly as he wished. It was difficult to state the contents of that petition without imputing very serious blame to General Darling, the Governor of that colony, and the persons who composed the Court-martial. At the same time, he must say, that he always held he was not bound to support the prayer of any petition he presented, unless he had some cause for believing that the matters therein-stated were grounded in truth. He had applied
 1143 1144 vivâ voce 1145 1146
 Mr. Spring Rice  considered that the plan proposed by the hon. member for Oldham
 1141
 Mr. William Brougham  presented a Petition from Christ Church, Surrey, against the New Police Act. He said, that he was sorry that his hon. friend, the Under Secretary for the Home Department, was prevented from taking his place that morning in consequence of illness. He had been requested by that hon. Gentleman to defer presenting the last petition; but as, according to the present arrangements of the House, he did not know when he should have another opportunity, he had declined acceding to the request. The petitioners complained that the New Police Act repealed the Act of George 3rd, which gave them power to appoint their own watch;
 1139 l l l
 Mr. Cobbett  thought the plan now in operation most objectionable. He had not been called upon by the Speaker for nearly a fortnight, and the consequence was, that his petitions had accumulated to the number of fifty-six. He had attended day after day, in hopes of being able to present his petitions, but was always disappointed. He considered that the best plan to adopt would be—to have an alphabetical list made out, and call upon hon. Members in that order; that would put an end entirely to all confusion.
 Mr. Cobbett  would read a letter from a gentleman at Wakefield, relating to the whole of the circumstances respecting the petition and the protest, which would show the character of the petitioners, and the character of those who opposed it. His hon. Colleague, to whom the letter was addressed, was obliged to attend a Committee to day, and therefore was unable himself to be present; but he (Mr. Cobbett) had been deputed to state this letter to the House. The letter asserted that the writer had just been informed, that one of the Protesters had disapproved of the petition, and that he feared the resignation of Earl Grey more than any other calamity. The protest, he had been told, had been hawked about by two petty attorneys, who were friends of Lord Morpeth, to prop up whose votes he
 1142
 Colonel Verner  said, he could not let the opportunity pass without slating that he had the honour of Captain Robinson's acquaintance, and that, from what he knew of him, he would say, that he was incapable of doing anything that was unbecoming a gentleman. He had good ground for believing independently of Captain Robinson's own assertions, that the allegations of the petition were perfectly correct.
 The Speaker  was sure that the House would feel itself under an obligation to the hon. Member for having called attention to the subject. He, however, considered that it arose from some oversight on the part of hon. Members, without once considering what course justice required to be pursued. The names of hon. Members might appear more than once on the list, without incorrectness; but that one name should be repeated eight times was manifestly an abuse of the plan which had been proposed.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  called upon the law officers of the Crown to come forward and state their construction of the legal effect of this proviso. He begged hon. Members to bear in mind that the proviso was not a part of the Bill which had been proposed by the Government, or to which the members of the Government ascribed any weight. The right hon. Gentleman opposite considered it a matter of indifference whether the proviso was inserted or not; and he hoped, therefore, that if the question came to a division, every Gentleman would exercise his own judgment on the matter.
 Sir Francis Vincent  thought, that the imputation so affected General Darling's character, as an officer and a gentleman, that no friend of his would oppose the prayer of the petition. It would not only enable the petitioner to obtain justice, but would enable the gallant officer
 1148
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that as they had arrived at a period of the Session when it was usual to call upon the House to pass a vote of credit for the purpose of meeting the army expenditure, he hoped he should meet with the attention of the Committee, when he asked them to give their sanction to one portion of the Army Estimates, which was the only one he intended to bring forward that night—namely the usual vote for the number of men. He felt that he came before the Committee, in the execution of his duties, under circumstances somewhat to his disadvantage. For many years a gradual diminution in the dead weight of the army had been going on, so that it was impossible for any one holding the office which he had the honour unworthily to fill, to come forward at the present moment with any very flourishing comparative statement between the amount
 1168 l 1169 l 1170 1171 1172 1173
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, he would agree to the suggestion of the hon. member for Bridport, and consent to take the division on the money grant, and not on the number of men.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  in the absence of the hon. member for Wexford, supported the proviso, in order to secure that this Bill should not be applied to enforce the payment of tithes.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was one other reason for the exclusion of the words—although what the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) had said was very convincing. The present was the first effort in legislation of a Reformed Parliament. The Lords had sent down a Bill and the present was the first amendment in it—and certainly it would be a curiosity, as the first piece of legislation of the Reformed Parliament. He was satisfied from the declarations of Ministers, that they did not mean to apply this Bill to the collection of tithes, and, therefore, the proviso was useless.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the consideration of the Report of this Bill. 1149
 Lord Althorp  must persist in proceeding. He was perfectly surprised at such a proposition emanating from the hon. Gentleman as he understood that the hon. Member was willing to proceed. At least let them agree to that one vote or it would be of no use whatever having gone into a Committee.
 Lord Althorp  said, he would place more reliance on the opinion of the hon. and gallant member for Surrey as a civilian than as a military man. He meant that the hon. and gallant Officer had had more
 1183 1184
 Lord Althorp  begged to recall the attention of the Committee to the question before it. One of the clauses of the Bill vested in the Lord-lieutenant the power of prohibiting public meetings in disturbed districts. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had observed, that at popular elections it was absolutely necessary that the candidates should be present at public meetings, in order to state the opinions upon which they founded their claims to the votes of the electors. The question was, whether the spirit of the Act applied to such meetings? It would be in the discretion of the Lord-lieutenant to put the Act in force, and he Would be responsible for his manner of doing it. No Lord-lieutenant would dare to make an undue use of the power thus intrusted to him, or interfere with the freedom of election. Were he to do so, he would subject himself not merely to censure, but almost to impeachment. There might be meetings during the progress of elections as dangerous to the public peace and safety, as at other periods, and, therefore, he could not do otherwise than look at the power given to the Lord-lieutenant to suppress such meetings as necessary to the efficiency of the measure.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the House to go into a Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates.
 Lord Morpeth  said, it was always irksome to reflect upon petitions, as it usually led only to recrimination. With respect to the petition just presented, he had no objection to make to it—it had been agreed to at a public meeting duly convened and regularly held; but a protest against it had been put into his hand—it was not a petition, and, therefore, he could not lay it on the Table. The protest was signed by many persons of the first respectability, and many of them of great mercantile character in the borough of Wakefield, and they had requested him to make all the use of it in his power. By this protest they stated, that so far from concurring with the petitioners, in their opinion, unless the outrages which had been committed in Ireland were suppressed by the passing of this or some efficient Bill, the Ministry would be guilty of a dereliction of duty, and all the consequences of a weak and inefficient Government would be entailed on the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Wished  to state what he conceived to be the present position of a prisoner under a charge of felony. It was not a real defence, nor a point of law alone that relieved a prisoner from a charge; but such was the mildness of the administration of the Criminal-law, that the slightest omission in the evidence—the smallest doubt—the most negative circumstance—the merest gap not filled up—was sufficient to absolve an accused party. In a Criminal Court the impression produced was, that every one concerned in it appeared to be engaged in a desire to procure an acquittal. It was
 1200 1201
 Mr. O'Connell  approved of the Bill, and said, that in the course of his long experience in criminal cases, he had seen many instances in which a conviction would not have been obtained if the accused were allowed Counsel for his defence. He had assisted at a trial in Ireland of three brothers, who were convicted and executed, though it turned out afterwards that they were completely innocent of the crime they were charged with. If he could have spoken in their behalf to the evidence adduced against them, he should have obtained unquestionably a verdict of acquittal. He could mention several other similar cases, and therefore he should not be justified if he did not support the present improvement in criminal law. He hoped that the hon. Member would withdraw his opposition to the Bill, and that it would meet with none from the majority of the House.
 An Hon. Member  said, that if Counsel were allowed to both prisoner and prosecutor, it would have no better result than giving rise to trials of professional skill. The prosecutor in most cases being the richer, would have the advantage, since it might naturally be supposed that he could obtain the best professional aid. The disadvantage would be consequently on the side of the prisoner, who generally was the poorer party. He entirely concurred with the suggestions of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, that it would be better in some cases to take away Counsel from the prosecutor, than allow him to retain Counsel in all, and also give Counsel to the prisoner.
 Mr. Lennard  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the 7th clause of the last Game Act; and to enable all tenants to shoot over the lands in their possession, unless restrained by a special agreement to the contrary with the landlord. The clause, as it at present stood, was the occasion of much injustice and hardship to tenants. He knew of several instances in which it had acted, not only contrary to the intentions of those who introduced the present law, but frequently contrary to the conditions on which the leases were taken. One instance within his knowledge occurred in Hertfordshire, which was attended with peculiar hardship. A gentleman had taken a farm under the express condition that he should have the exclusive right of shooting over it; and, at the time of making the bargain, he mentioned that he would not give the rent for which he bound himself upon any other condition. By the practice of that county, however, there was no clause to that effect in the lease, and the only manner in which it was made to appear that tenants had the right to sport over their lands, was, when there was no clause inserted reserving the right to the landlord—the omission of such a clause being considered as conferring the right upon the tenant. Soon afterwards the Game Act passed, and took from tenants all right to sport, unless they had an express condition to that effect in their leases. The consequence was, that this gentleman was deprived of his right for which he had given a sum of money. That was but one of many similar instances of injustice which he could quote. He would allow that that House was not to be blamed for the insertion of the clause of which he complained. It was introduced in the other House, he believed, with the hope and expectation that the House of Commons would never agree to it. The whole Bill was disagreeable to the great proprietors in the other House, and they had hoped that, by the insertion of such a
 1206
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  thought, that if they did not go into the consideration of the whole subject of the Game Laws, it would be better to let the Bill stand as it was. He said, that the Game Act had not been found to have the effect anticipated by the proposer of it. Poaching and the crimes connected with poaching, had increased to a most alarming extent since the passing of that Act. He believed, that the Sale of Beer Act and the new Game Act had together worked prodigious mischief, and had been the causes of that demoralization which was now so much complained of. He thought, that the question should, at all events, be postponed till it could be fully considered.
 Mr. Baring  said, that the tenant ought in justice to be put on the same footing as before the passing of the last Game Act. With respect to the question about the increase of crime, and the cause of demoralization, it was rather difficult to assign the true cause, for both the Game Act and the Sale of Beer Act had been passed in the same Session; and it was impossible as yet to distinguish between their effects. He was himself inclined to think that the blame which was laid on the Sale of Beer Act would not have been so much deserved if the Game Laws had not at the same time been altered.
 Mr. Faithfull  was perfectly astonished at the declaration of the hon. Member. It did not appear to him that there was any more moral guilt in poisoning a pheasant than in shooting a sparrow. The Game Laws appeared to him the most unjust, arbitrary, and tyrannical laws that ever were made; they were a protection to the rich, and an injury to the poor; and they ought to be altogether repealed
 The Attorney General  said, he should be very sorry to throw any impediment in the way of any hon. Member who brought forward a measure for altering the law of libels. He had heard the details of the hon. Member, but he would not offer any comments on them. On the second reading of the Bill, however, he should feel it to be his duty to offer some few observations to the House on the subject of  ex officio
 Mr. Charles J. Kemyss Tynte  said, that having the honour to represent a county in which were a very large body of Dissenters, he felt rejoiced in an opportunity of congratulating the Dissenters and the people of England upon the liberal manner in which his hon. friend's Motion had been met by his Majesty's Ministers. The Dissenters had long patiently endured their grievances, and now he was glad to find that the justice they had anticipated from a Reformed Parliament was about to be realized. He felt himself bound to say, that he believed that no class of persons in the country more deserved, or would prove themselves more worthy of the boon that he felt assured would now be granted them, than the Dissenters.
 The Attorney General  said, he heartily concurred in the object proposed by his learned friend. He had been made aware, by his professional pursuits, of its very great importance. As a question of evidence concerning property, it was one of as great difficulty, as it was of importance. He spoke from long practical experience, and he was sure that no subject better deserved the consideration of the House and the public, than the one introduced to their notice by his hon. friend. He would not enter into any details, but would reserve to himself the right of discussing them hereafter, assuring his hon. friend that any difference of opinion should be discussed, on his part, in a spirit desirous only of coming at the truth on a subject of such importance.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, when he heard the hon. Member declare that those laws were enacted to give protection to the rich, and to inflict injury on the poor, he must enter his protest against such an assertion. He would expunge from the Statute-book any law that operated to the injury of the poor, while it conferred advantages on the rich. He begged leave, however, to deny, in the most decided manner, that the Game Laws had any such effect. Those laws were enacted for the purpose of protecting the property of individuals. Game, he supposed, belonged to those by whom it was bred, and the rich man had surely as much right to it as the poor man had to his pigs or fowls. Let each party possess that which was his right. A privilege of this nature was a stimulus to men to endeavour to attain the same advantage by pursuing industrious habits and amassing property. Every man in this country might arrive at that privilege if he duly exercised the ability with which Providence had blessed him. It was not out of the reach of any person.
 Mr. Wilks  rose to move for the appointment of a "Select Committee to consider the general state of parochial registries, and the registration of births, baptisms, marriages, deaths, and burials, in England and Wales." The subject deserved the serious consideration of the House, and was very important to all persons possessing property, however humble or exalted, and to whatsoever religious denomination they belonged. From that estimate of its importance in which he trusted the House
 1210 d s d 1211 1212 l d 1213 1214 custodes rotulorum 1215 1216 v 1217 1218 1219 Maire Code Civil Procureur du Roi acte de naissance 1220 1221
 Mr. Richard Potter  regretted that the debate should be deferred, for the greatest inconvenience was felt in consequence of the inhabitants of the hundreds of Salford and West Derby having to repair to so great a distance for justice. Many injuries were submitted to, in preference to incurring the expense of trying actions at Lancaster; he would only just refer to one instance—the commercial house with which he was connected had brought an action against a party—it was tried at Lancaster, a distance of upwards of fifty
 1205 l
 Mr. Rigby Wason  called upon the hon. and learned Gentleman to bring in a Bill to the same effect as the one he said was repealed. It would be wise to postpone the consideration of the present Bill till the Solicitor General could bring in a general measure.
 Mr. William Brougham  said, that the House would certainly do well to revise the Bill, but ought to retain the principles of it. By the present Bill, to constitute poaching, the offence must be committed in the intermediate period between an hour after sunset, and an hour before sunrise, Now, it was notorious that more game was illegally destroyed in those two
 1207 l
 Mr. Ewart  agreed to postpone the discussion, on the understanding that the Solicitor General would bring forward the measure of which he had given notice.
 Mr. Ewart  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the removal of the Assizes from Lancaster to Liverpool and Manchester.
 Mr. Ewart  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to allow Criminals, in all cases, a full defence by Counsel.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  concurred entirely with the hon. Member, and begged leave therefore to second the Motion.
 Sir Francis Vincent  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill
 1208 ex officio 1209
 The Solicitor General  did not rise to oppose the Motion for leave to bring in this Bill, but rather to support it. The theory was certainly in favour of it, and in cases where a foreigner was tried, or where a blind man, or a deaf and dumb man, was put on his defence against a criminal charge, gross injustice was done by not allowing their defence to be made by Counsel. He doubted, however, whether it was expedient in all cases to give the prisoner the right of making his defence by Counsel, and he was even inclined to think that it would be better to take away from the prosecutor the right of addressing the Juror by Counsel than to give such right indiscriminately in all cases to the prisoner. He conceived that it would be wiser that in all prosecutions where Counsel addressed the Jury for the prosecutor, Counsel should also have the right to address the Jury for the prisoner. He would therefore enact, that unless a speech was made by the prosecutor's Counsel, no speech should be made by the Counsel for the prisoner. If the alteration contemplated by this Bill were made, the present number of Judges would not be sufficient to get through the criminal business of the country. In a civil case, the Judge often told the Counsel that he was going too much at length into general circumstances; but in a criminal case, what a very delicate task it would be for a Judge, when a man was being tried for his life, to say to the prisoner's Counsel—"You have stated that point before, several times; and therefore I hope you will go to some other part of the case." These objections struck him at first view, as being applicable to the practice that would take place under this Bill; but still the arguments in favour of carrying it into execution were so strong in theory, that he certainly should be disposed to make the attempt. There was a degree of scandal attached to the administration of justice, if any party could be said not to have been fully heard. He very much questioned, however, whether, in point of practice, this defence on the part of the prisoner
 1203
 The Solicitor General,  as a member of that Commission to Inquire into the Laws of Real Property, the Report of which the hon. Gentleman had referred to, was well aware of the defective state of our registration. It was more easy to trace a pedigree 500 years ago than five years. When there was a necessity for a man to go back to his great grandfather, it was found to be extremely difficult. Moreover, the present system gave rise to many forgeries. Owing to the state of the law, any scrap of paper preserved in a family became evidence, and gave rise, when there was a necessity for them, to
 1222
 The Solicitor General  would not exactly oppose the bringing in of the Bill, though he not only thought it inexpedient, but bad in principle. He thought it bad in principle, because he considered that such matters ought not to rest with the House, but rather with the Crown whose prerogative it belonged to settle this matter. It would be better to revive the Statute of Charles 2nd, which gave the power to the King in Council to remove the Assizes from one place to another.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there was much good sense in the few words that fell from the hon. Members who had last spoken, and that it would be far better to postpone the consideration of the present Bill to a future period, than to hurry it on now when a general measure might make it wholly unnecessary. He considered, that if such Bills were allowed to be brought in through the medium of that House, much inconvenience would arise from it. The fixing of the Assizes would become a party matter, and the Representatives of large towns would be continually endeavouring to have the Assizes removed to those towns. That House was not the best tribunal to apply to for the removal of the Assizes from one town to another; the matter ought to rest entirely with the Privy Council. That being his opinion, he hoped the House would not allow any part of the present Bill to pass, and that it would be postponed until his Majesty's legal advisers had time to consider the subject.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  was inclined to think that prisoners would not derive
 1202
 Lord Althorp  also considered that it would be better to withdraw the Bill for the present, that the subject might be more fully considered. He begged, therefore, the hon. and learned member for Liverpool to postpone his Motion to a future time.
 Lord Sandon  felt bound to support the Motion of his hon. and learned colleague; but in giving it his support, he would
 1204
 Mr. Beaumont  on some Petitions having been presented for the better observance of the Sabbath said, he had been intrusted with several petitions on the same subject which he had not yet had an opportunity of presenting to the House, and he wished to take this opportunity of informing his constituents that he had not been neglectful of his duty, though he differed from them as to the propriety of passing any Bill for such an object. He would not charge his hon. friend who had brought in a Bill for this purpose with being actuated by any feeling other than a view to the general good, but he was of opinion that cant, humbug, and
 1232
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  deprecated further discussion at present, and thought the attacks of the hon. members for Northumberland and Wigan were extremely unfair. In justification of the hon. Baronet (Sir Andrew Agnew), he must say, that he had never pledged himself to the limit of bringing in a Bill solely to put down Sunday trading, but his intention had been to accomplish the views pointed out by the Committee of last year in their report, now on the Table of the House. He felt assured that the hon. Baronet would not stand forward to support every iota of the Bill, but would withdraw any provisions which
 1234
 Mr. O'Connell  felt it his duty at once to protest against the Bill which had been introduced. He had no notion that such a Bill was in preparation, and so different was it from that which he had expected, and from any measure which he could support, that, unless it was essentially altered in Committee, he should give it his most decided opposition.
 Mr. M'Leod  did not believe that there was any cant, but there was religious and decorous observance of the Sabbath in Scotland, and the people of that country were anxious, as was evident by their numerous petitions, to promote a proper observance of that day. With respect to the Bill which had been introduced, he had read it with the most unqualified astonishment, and was convinced that unless it was essentially altered, it would not pass nor effect any good. If it was pressed in its present
 1235
 Mr. Cobbetl  could not suffer this Bill to pass without saying a few more words; but though his words were few they should be decisive, and should lead to a division of the House on the subject. The hon. Member on his left (Mr. Clay) having said, that the people were not with Ministers on this measure, there was a sort of negative cheer on the other side of the House. He would say, too, that the people were not with Ministers on this measure. He himself had that morning presented petitions against the measures signed by 50,000 Englishmen, resident in some of the greatest towns in the kingdom, among others Manchester, Norwich, Great Yarmouth, Nottingham, and Preston, the subscribers being some of the most respectable inhabitants, if respectability was taken to mean wealth and station. He had presented, too, about forty petitions from different parts in Scotland, Ireland, and Wales; and every petition presented to the House on the subject was strongly against the Bill; not one was for it. The voice of the whole people of England was against this abominable Bill. He would not detain the House any longer, but at once read a Motion he intended to bring forward, and at least put it on record. He intended to divide on the Motion; he had not thought of asking any one to second it, and he did not much care who voted for it; he was sure that his colleague would; and whether any body supported it or not, he and his colleague would at least have done their duty. The hon. Member then read the Motion, which was, that "This House, seeing in this Bill the substitution of Military Courts for Courts consisting of Judges and Jurors—seeing in it the abrogation of the most precious of all the institutions of the country—seeing clearly that its main purpose is to keep in the hands of the present aristocracy the plunder of the ancient Church and the poor, which the ancestors of that aristocracy obtained by apostacy, and which has been retained by the cruel penal laws and by the shedding of innocent blood—and suspecting moreover, that this Bill is intended as a prelude to the adoption of similar measures in Great Britain, this House will read this Bill a third time this day six months." He would make but a very few observations, and those merely to
 1240
 Mr. Ruthven  regretted that this first step should be taken to destroy the union between the two countries. The Bill had been so nursed and dandled in that House, so altered and modified, that when it went hack to the House of Lords, the Peers would not know their own child. In the name of his constituents, he protested against the Bill, and would resist it to the last.
 Sir John Tyrrell  said, that he chiefly rose for the purpose of stating his surprise that the members of his Majesty's Government should have sat silent under the accusation made against them by the hon. and learned member for Tralee. That accusation was, that at a time when their remaining in office was doubtful, they had recommended the agitation of Political Unions throughout the country. He hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would not allow that debate to close before they gave a distinct disavowal to the charge made against them. Though he had opposed the remedial measures proposed by Ministers towards Ireland, still he hoped that the good sense of the Irish people would make them be satisfied with those measures, and that they would be unanimously supported by the Irish Members of the House.
 Mr. O' Connell  said, that when he before addressed the House on the principle of the Bill, he promised them a long speech, and he thought that he had at least kept that promise. He would now make another promise which he was determined to keep also; namely, that he would address them as briefly as possible—as briefly as the importance of the subject demanded. He did not rise to fawn or cringe to that House—he did not rise to supplicate it to be merciful towards that nation to which he belonged—towards that nation which, though sub-
 1273 1274 1275 1276 1277 1278
 Mr. Foster  said, that the allegation of 524 voters having been bribed out of 526, had made a great sensation in the county. He could, however, assure the House, that the case was grossly exaggerated. The evidence on which it rested was altogether  ex parte 1290
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he objected to this Bill. He objected to it in the first place, because no parliamentary ground had been laid for it, that it rested simply upon the allegation of one right hon. Member, and was totally contrary to all precedent. If a general measure were proposed, indemnifying all witnesses who might give evidence of corruption in which they had been engaged, that would be perfectly regular, and recognised by the Statute of George 2nd. But this Bill was not of that nature, nor like that Bill which leave was given to bring in. That was, "To indemnify persons who may give evidence before Parliament, touching bribery in the election of burgesses to serve in Parliament for the borough of Stafford." This Bill indemnified all persons who had been guilty of bribery and corruption at Stafford, whether they gave evidence or not; an Amendment for confining the protection to those who might give evidence, having been negatived in Committee. Further, although one of
 1285 1286 1287
 Mr. Chetwynd  said, he was quite ready to agree on his own part, and on the part of his constituents to any inquiry, and he desired to have an investigation into the allegations made against the borough of Stafford.
 Sir Alexander Hope  dissented entirely from the statement of the hon. member for Northumberland, which taxed the peti-
 1233
 Mr. Langdale  had voted for the first and second reading of the Bill, but he could not vote for the third reading. He had voted for the first and second reading, because a case had been, he thought, made out, that some extreme measure was necessary; but there were some of the clauses to which he could not agree. He had intended in the Committee to make some objections to those clauses; but these objections were so much better stated by others than he could state them that he had abstained. There was one clause which stamped the Bill as a measure of great severity. That was the clause which established Military Courts. One circumstance, in particular, he thought of great importance—a redeeming feature in the character of the Irish through all these disturbances. On neither side of the House had one word ever been said to lead any person to suppose that, in all these disturbances, there was any symptom of disloyalty. There was no feeling in the peasantry against the soldiery, because they did not consider the soldiery as their Judges, but only as executing the orders of their superiors. By constituting these Military Courts the Judges of the people, they would run the risk of turning on the military that odium
 1246
 Lord John Russell  stated, that he should institute an immediate inquiry into the case, and mention the result to the House.
 Mr. Lamont  supported the Bill. He had been in the army, and had some experience of Courts-martial. He was sure, that the Courts-martial in Ireland in 1797, and following years, behaved with great moderation, and the strictest justice. He was convinced, that the state of Ireland called for additional powers, and, therefore, he would vote for the Bill.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  moved, that it be inserted in the preamble that the Bill was founded upon the allegations of the right hon. Edward Ellice, that bribery existed in the borough of Stafford.
 Mr. Wynn  withdrew his Amendment, though he affirmed that the House was passing the Bill in a most inconvenient manner, which would cover the House with disgrace.
 Mr. Dominick Browne , as an independent Irish Member, regretted very much that he felt himself bound to give his consent to this measure, though nothing but its indispensable necessity could induce him to do so. Peace, however, would never be produced in Ireland by such a measure as this, unless it was accompanied by remedial measures, and by remedial measures, too, going to a much further extent than any, he feared, that his Majesty's Ministers
 1264
 Mr. Barnard  regretted very much that one of the first votes he should have to give in that House was in favour of such a measure, but he hoped that the suspension of the liberties of the people of Ireland would be only for a moment, and that in a short period, they would be restored brighter than ever. His consent to the Bill was wrung from him by hard necessity, but he felt convinced that the power which he intrusted to the Government would be properly and carefully administered. He would, however, recommend the Government to attend to the wants of the Irish people, to establish Poor-laws, and to take away every pretext for agrarian disturbance. Looking forward to the period with pleasure when he should be called on to give his vote in favour of beneficial measures for Ireland, he meant, in the mean time, to vote for the third reading, as he had voted for all the other stages, of the Bill.
 Mr. Ellice  was sorry that such a course should be followed by his right hon. friend, which would compel him to follow a similar course on all Bills brought in by his right hon. friend. The proposition was plainly intended to cast ridicule on the Bill.
 Mr. Ellice  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of this Bill; and, on the Order being read, moved that the Bill be then read a third time.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that this Bill, which had been described to be so very extraordinary a one, differed only from all others of a like kind which had been sent down from the House of Lords, to this extent; that whereas this Bill indemnified all persons connected with the transactions to which it referred in other Bills there had been an exception made in respect of those who had been candidates at the elections referred to, and of those who had not been called upon to give evidence before the Committee. The House, however, agreed to introduce a proviso that this Bill should not exempt any candidate at the last election from any disqualification from sitting in this Parliament, to which he would, or might otherwise have been liable. He had, on a former occasion, stated to the House the reason why this Bill was introduced without a Committee being appointed. It was declared by two persons, who actually paid the money, that 524 electors out of 526, were guilty of bribery; and that if an indemnity were given to those persons, they would prove the facts before a Committee.
 1288 qui tam 1289 l l l l
 Mr. Littleton , the Chairman of the Committee for classifying the petitions, &c., said that nothing had transpired to prevent
 1236
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  said, that as an Irishman he would vote against this peculiar act of oppression and aggression against his country. As a Member of the House of Commons, he entered his solemn protest against it, as an innovation upon the Constitution, which ought to be dear to every man in the country. At that late hour of the debate, he would do nothing more than protest most solemnly against this crying innovation of the Constitution contemplated by Government in wishing to pass the present atrocious measure.
 Mr. Shaw  contended that the Bill would defeat its own object, for a Member who had got in by bribery, might indemnify himself by giving evidence against those whom he had corrupted. It seemed to him that the Bill was well calculated to protect the most guilty parties. It was holding out a premium for bribery, and it was enabling the Member, whose seat was challenged, to say, if you unseat me, I will disfranchise your borough?
 Mr. Wilbraham  was convinced that some coercive and severe measure was necessary for the security of person and property in Ireland, and in that conviction he had supported the principle of the Bill. He had also the fullest confidence in his Majesty's Ministers, and was convinced that they would not demand such a Bill if it were not indispensable. He approved of that part of the Bill which went to suppress political associations, because he thought that they were the root of the evil. It had been asserted that these associations had no connexion with predial outrage; if that were the case, human nature must be different in Ireland from what it was every where else. It would, however, require much to convince him that the seditious harangues at the Corn Exchange were not exciting causes of the outrages in the provinces. But though he was convinced of the necessity of some such measure, he had not the same conviction as to the Court-martial clause, and he shrunk from the responsibility of establishing such a total departure from the Constitution. He admitted that in the progress of the Bill the clause had
 1239
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he had supported his Majesty's Ministers on the Address, but when the present measure was developed to the House, he felt that though some extraordinary powers were necessary for the administration of justice in Ireland, yet some of those demands were of so extravagant a nature as to call for his determined opposition. He had listened to all the debates on this question with great attention, and he must say, with regard to the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman, late Secretary for Ireland, that while he admitted the power and eloquence of that right hon. Gentleman's appeal, he could not congratulate him on the purity of his taste in introducing so many acrimonious personalities as he had thought proper to indulge in. The right hon. Gentleman's speeches had not had so much effect on him as the speeches of the noble Lord, the member for Nottingham, (Lord Duncannon) and of the hon. member, the Lord-lieutenant of the county of Wexford (Mr. Carew). But the evidence which was more conclusive than any other, was that of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, who, in the course of a speech on another subject, made use of some expressions respecting the state of society in Ireland, which; had the most powerful influence on his mind. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that there was a large portion of the population of the north of Ireland who were armed, and ready to break out into actual rebellion. [Mr.  O'Connell 1253
 Mr. Barron  regretted to find, that the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers had placed him, and those who thought and acted with him, in a false position, by the grounds upon which they called upon them to assent to these violent measures. The main ground was, that no justice could be had in Ireland by trial by Jury. Now he would fearlessly state, that the late trials in Ireland had given a flat contradiction to these assertions. It was not his intention to detain, the House, or to do anything to impede the Bill, when he considered that it had been now nearly two months before the House, but he would repeat, that in the late trials by Jury, the majesty of the law had been triumphantly vindicated in Ireland. Away then went the argument of his Majesty's Ministers in support of this Bill, and of the necessity of Courts-martial, and the exercise of military power. He for one felt bound to give his thanks to the independent English and Scotch Members; and he was sure they would receive the thanks of their constituents for their exertions in support of the liberties of Ireland. They came boldly forward on that occasion, because they felt that when the liberties of one portion of the United Kingdom were destroyed, England and Scotland might well tremble for their own. Ministers had, he repeated, placed him and others in a false position, because they made them appear the abettors of the nightly murders and other misdeeds of the miscreants who prowled about for the worst of purposes. He had been induced to go certain lengths in support of the Bill, but he objected to giving such powers with scarcely any responsibility. One of the worst features of the Bill was, that it was open to the greatest abuses; whilst those to whom these extraordinary powers were intrusted, were irresponsible for the manner in which they were exercised. It was vain to talk of responsibility. A poor man might be con-
 1252 Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Barron  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation. He had not made the statement regarding the murder of Mr. Leonard, as mentioned by the noble Lord; what he had said was, that the persons accused of the murder were arrested in the presence of 500 persons, some of whom had assisted the special constables.
 Mr. John Fielden  seconded the Amendment. He was sorry to say, that he concurred in the opinion that this measure was not intended solely for the Irish nation.
 Mr. Poulter  defended the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers with respect to this measure, and deprecated the assertion made by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and other Gentlemen from Ireland, that there was an understanding between the Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and the Government, to degrade and enslave their country. No idea could possibly be more erroneous. He could assure the hon. Gentleman opposite, that many hon. Members on that side of the House were total strangers to his Majesty's Ministers. What, then, had been the general character and motive of their support? It was, that without obligation or connexion, unknowing and unknown, they believed them to be the first Ministers in this country who had united the power with a desire to do justice to the whole community. In spite of the insinuations thrown out, particularly by the hon. member for Middlesex, he would assert that they were real representatives of the people—carrying with them the hearts and affections of the middle classes, and of the yeomanry of England, and
 1241 telum imbelle sine ictu 1242 1243
 Mr. Richards  said, that he had presented petitions in favour of a better observance of the Sabbath from many of his constituents, than whom none could be more free from cant. The language of the hon. member for Northumberland, if not un-parliamentary, was at least unfair and un-candid, and such as he hoped never to hear again. He had not read the Bill, and therefore would not say more than that he was favourable to its general principle.
 Mr. John Young : The hon. Member (Mr. Langdale) who had just sat down spoke of a detestation which existed in Ireland against the Magistrates; it had been too much the fashion in the House to run the Magistrates of Ireland down. He thought hon. Gentlemen who made such accusations would pursue a course more beneficial to the country if they were to fix on some act of oppression committed by a Magistrate, and bring it before the proper legal tribunals. This mode of proceeding would have the advantage of bringing the offending party, if guilty, to justice, and of affording him, if innocent, an opportunity of defending himself, and clearing his character; but the Magistracy of Ireland were intimately connected and identified with the resident landed proprietors; and it might be all very well for those who had little connexion with the property, and still less with the gentlemen of that country to depreciate their motives, and disparage their characters. But he had received many kindnesses from that gentry, had mixed much with them, and would never sit in silence to hear them abused. For a portion of them, at least for those of the county he represented, he would answer confidently, they deplored as much as any men could do the wretched state of their country; they never had done anything to aggravate the sufferings of the people, but on the contrary were willing and active in their endeavours to relieve them. Whenever their assistance was required they would not shrink from their duty, but would come forward, as he knew they had already done, to concert and carry into effect measures for the support of the laws, and the preservation of tranquillity. He had been much surprised on hearing many Gentlemen attribute the present disturb-
 1247 1248 1249
 Mr. Brotherton  said, he did not concur in the opinions expressed by several hon. Members. The Sabbath was a divine institution, and its due observance must be beneficial to society, in a physical, moral, and religious point of view. He was ready to admit that no man could be made religious by Act of Parliament, neither could he be made honest by legislative enactment but as it was necessary to have laws to prevent robbery, why not also have laws to promote the observance of the Sabbath? The Sabbath was not observed as it ought to be, and without giving any opinion upon this Bill, he should support any measure calculated to promote the better observance of that important institution.
 Mr. Hume  wished the hon. Baronet had brought in a Bill to repeal all former laws for the regulation of the Sabbath, and had formed an entirely new measure. He (Mr. Hume) was of opinion that no legislation would compel the people to become pious. He was as anxious as any man that the Sabbath should be observed in this country with that due respect and attention which was observed in Scotland, but he must say he thought the measure which was now before the House would not effect that object.
 Mr. Hume  rose to reply to some observations of the hon. member for St. Alban's. The hon. Member had pronounced the speech which he had evidently prepared, and which he had probably practised before the glass, with a degree of assurance [ cries of 1262 Habeas Corpus 1263
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, he would reply first to the latter part of the hon. member for St. Alban's speech. The hon. Member, who sat behind the Treasury Bench, used the "we" with so much consequence, in speaking of the intentions of his Majesty's Ministers, that he (Mr. Maurice O'Connell) thought it very likely that, in the course of the changes which were taking place in the Ministry, he might meditate a descent to the Treasury Bench itself. The hon. Member had stated, that, out of the places which had petitioned against the Irish Coercion Bill, only fifty were from places in England, and that these were all from places in which there were Political Unions. Now these very Political Unions, which were now decried, were, a year ago, the means of maintaining Ministers in office. He knew an individual who, at that period, had met a party that had just left one of his Majesty's Ministers with fifty franks for the purpose of writing letters to the leaders of the different Political Unions in the country. These letters were written and received; and in consequence of these letters, the movement at that time took place.[ Cries of Name 1259 impromptu Westminster Review 1260 1261
 Mr. Bellew  knew the House was weary of the subject; but as he had never trespassed upon their attention before, he hoped they would listen to him for a few minutes. He did not deny that Ireland was in a state of partial disorganization; but he maintained that to agree to such a Bill was not the way to restore it to order. It was most unfair that Irish Members should be trodden upon and ridden down by that House on account of their opposition to the present Bill, and that it should be said that that opposition proceeded from out-of-doors excitement. In his opinion his Majesty's Government had not made out a case to prove in any way the necessity of that measure. He did not deny that there had been murders, burnings, and robberies; but Englishmen, who had not been present at the trials in Ireland, could not be aware of the misrepresentations—he believed them unintentional—which ran through the whole of the statements of his Majesty's Ministers. The representations given to Government respecting the state of Ireland were all tinctured by party spirit and rancour, which infected the highest as well as the lowest classes in that country. For example, the county of Louth with which he was well acquainted was said to be disturbed, but the fact was, that the disposition to disturbance which had shown itself was speedily repressed by
 1272
 Mr. Richard Potter  agreed in what had fallen from the hon. member for Northumberland, and he must add that he thought the hon. Baronet who introduced the measure had hardly dealt fairly by the House. The hon. Baronet had obtained leave to bring in a Bill on the understanding that its chief object would be to prevent Sunday trading, but he had brought in a Bill which, if passed into a law, would disorganize the whole social system in England, and interfere with the most innocent recreations of the people on Sundays. The measure might do for Scotland, but he was convinced it would not answer for the people of England. He trusted that the Bill would not be permitted to pass another stage; for if it went further the House would become the laughing-stock of the country. He should oppose the Bill in all its stages, being convinced that it would do irreparable mischief.
 Mr. Hall Dare , as the Representative of a large constituency in the neighbourhood of the Metropolis, took it upon himself to deny that the people of England were against the measure. Those hon. Members were wrong who supposed that the people of England were inclined to resist a measure which was to give peace to Ireland.
 1251
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that as he had presented several petitions on this subject, he could not allow to pass unnoticed the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Northumberland (Mr. Beaumont). It was impossible for any man not to condemn the use of such language, either as applied to a proposed measure or to the petitions which were presented in support of it. He could assure the House that the deepest interest on this subject prevailed in Scotland, and that the great majority of the people in that part of the kingdom were sincere in their desire that some legislative measure should pass for the better observance of the Lord's Day. He should reserve his opinion on the measure proposed until the discussion on it properly came before the House, and would content himself now with protesting against the application of the epithets which had been used to any petitions or petitioners.
 Mr. Cobbett  begged to express his thanks to the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Andrew Agnew) for producing such a Bill as that he had brought before the House, for it was so bad a one, and would make such a revolution in the manners of the country, that it never could pass. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. member for Northumberland, he concurred with him in every sentiment he had uttered.
 Mr. Cobbett  on presenting a Petition from Richard Newsham a soldier of the 53rd regiment, complaining of unjust treatment, and praying the House to investigate his complaint observed, that the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets presented a petition from an officer the other day, complaining that he had been oppressed by a Court-martial, and he had done himself much honour by the manner in which he had brought it forward. The hon. and learned Member would not do himself less honour by taking up the case of this poor man, who had received 600 lashes for the most trivial offences. They were all of opinion that flogging was improper and yet here was an immense quantity of flogging for no offence. First this man was flogged and received 300 lashes because he had not had the proper kind of paper to wrap his ammunition in, and next he received three hundred lashes because the officer did not like his looks. This was in his opinion a most cruel case and as the statements of the petition were supported by affidavits, he particularly wished that the petition should be printed, and he must complain that the power of ordering that, had been taken from the House and intrusted to the Committee. The House granted 16,000 l l
 Mr. Cobbett  was about to make some remarks in reply, but the Speaker intimated that it was three o'clock the usual hour of adjournment, and left the Chair so that the petitions presented by the hon. Member could not be read and laid on the Table.
 Mr. Cobbett  did not Care about that; but as he understood that his Amendment was not consistent with the orders of the House, he would move simply that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 Mr. Peter  spoke to the following effect:—Notwithstanding the denunciations of the hon. member for Middlesex, I rise to give my support to the Bill now before this House; and I do so, because I consider it to be not less just than necessary—not less calculated to protect the innocent than to coerce the guilty—not less essential to the present peace and security of Ireland, than to the future interests—to the future freedom and welfare, of the whole united empire. Sir, one of the errors into which I conceive the hon. Member, and many who have preceded him in this debate, have fallen, is that of supposing it possible, at the present moment, and, under existing circumstances, to govern Ireland like a free country. Indeed, I might say, that it is one of the errors of our times to misapply general principles—to consider maxims, which may be true in one country, as equally applicable to all others, however differing in their moral and physical situation. When a people are high in morals and intelligence—when there is, as in the United States of America, a great safety-valve for all bad passions arising from pressure of population—when property is not predominantly in a few hands—when the hope of getting a full share by in-
 1265 1266 1267 They bawl for freedom, in their senseless mood, But still revolt, when truth would set them free; License they mean, when they cry liberty, For who loves that must first be wise and good. 1268 1269 1270 1271
 Colonel Verner  begged to say [ loud cries of Question Question
 Sir Andrew Agnew  observed, that there seemed to be a misconception in the House as to the nature of the measure which he had brought forward, and he therefore would beg to state that the principle of the Bill was to recognize a cessation from all labour on the Sabbath Day. It was open to every hon. Member to except to the provisions of the Bill, and also to make suggestions; and without now supporting its details, he would merely add, that between the present time and the second reading of the Bill, he should with pleasure receive the suggestions of any hon. Member on the subject.
 The Speaker  said, that he presumed the hon. Member meant it as an Amendment on the original Motion. It was not customary however, to enter on the journals of the House any reasons for a Motion, and the hon. Member would see that by assigning reasons for his Motion, he would prevent those who did not assent to those reasons, and did assent to his Motion, from voting for it.
 Sir Harry Verney  having voted for this measure in all its stages, was happy to embrace that opportunity of saying, that it was with great regret that he had found himself under the necessity of supporting such a measure. He did not regret having supported the Bill, because it was necessary to give to the Ministers the powers they asked, as rather than not have voted as he
 1250
 Mr. Ward  wished to make as few additions as possible to the flood of dissertation by which the House had been overflowed during the last six weeks; but he felt himself bound to offer some few remarks to the House. He did not mean to convey any censure upon the minority. The Irish Members had a duty to perform, and they had performed it fearlessly and perseveringly, and with as much good humour as it was possible to show while playing a losing game. No one, he was sure, could have followed as he had, every stage of the proceedings, without feeling the most unfeigned respect for the abilities displayed throughout by hon. Members, and by the hon. and learned member for Dublin in particular; abilities which had enabled him, notwithstanding sundry knock-down blows, and in the face of a great numerical majority, on the part of his opponents, to continue the struggle to the last, and to effect, by the force of argument, many important alterations in the Bill. In this, however, he had been mainly assisted by the liberal spirit of his Majesty's Ministers. Not a single practical improvement had been proposed, not trenching too deeply upon the main principles of the Bill, which they had not adopted; not a single doubt been suggested as to the possible misinterpretation of a clause which they had not at once come forward to remove. The hon. and learned Gentleman had admitted that upon more than one occasion; and when he looked at the extent of the concessions made, concessions bearing, all of them, upon the most important clauses of the Bill; excluding political offences from the jurisdiction of Courts'-martial; doing away with all discretionary power in domiciliary visits, and giving up private imprisonment, for which nothing could have induced him to vote. He did not see how if extraordinary powers were required, less than those now given could be expected to answer the end. Some hon. Members thought that the efficiency of the Bill was already endangered, and particularly the hon. member for Essex and the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin, but the opinions of that hon. Gentleman were too deeply tinged with party spirit to have that weight to which his
 1254 1255 1256 The Westminster Review 1257 1258
 Mr. Ward  hoped the House would hear one word from him in explanation, the more especially as the hon. member for Middlesex had accused him of maligning—he believed that was the word—the petitions of the people. He certainly did not possess the advantages of a practised speaker, like that hon. Member, and before such an exquisite glass, too, as that hon. Member must employ. He had been misunderstood: he rose to explain that misunderstanding; and ready as he would be to afford any other Gentleman a hearing under such circumstances, he was sure the House would not deny it to him on the present occasion. He had not maligned the petitions of the people; what he had done was this, and he was sure the House would bear him out in the correctness of the statement—he had drawn a broad distinction between the real  bonâ fide
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  wished that the petition presented relative to the flogging of Newsham should be taken into the serious consideration of the House, because, if the contents were true, it was a disgrace to the army of this country; but he thought he might venture to say that no officer would dare to inflict 300 lashes for no other offence than that of having used improper paper to wrap up ammunition.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, in coming forward on this occasion he felt that he laboured under considerable disadvantage, not having heard those able and eloquent appeals which had been made to the House in favour of this measure. If he had heard them, many of the scruples which he entertained against the Bill would perhaps have been removed. It was possible that the Government might have convinced him that the omission of those clauses which were opposed to his feelings, and be believed to the feelings of all the people of England, would be destructive of the efficacy of the Bill, and that, therefore, they ought to be retained. No such conviction had, however, reached his mind—and he could not give it his support. He was very glad to see that some of the clauses had been modified, though the modification in no instance was complete enough to induce him to support them. In its present state, he certainly saw no reason for voting in favour of it. Having read the powerful and touching appeals of a right hon. Gentleman, who was now, he believed, Colonial Secretary, relative to the
 1244 1245
 Mr. Clay  protested, in the strongest terms against this Bill being allowed to pass into a law. He had voted in favour of the first reading of the Bill, in the hope that all the objectionable clauses might be altered in the Committee; but that hope had been defeated; and now, when there was no longer a chance of any alteration taking place, it came before them with all its worst imperfections almost unmitigated. There were still the mongrel Courts-martial; there was the interference with the right of petitioning, and there was also the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 1237 1238
 Lord Althorp  said, that before he replied to the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, he must take the liberty of contradicting the statement made by the hon. member for Tralee, and of assuring the hon. Member, that as far as his own knowledge went, the hon. Member must have been misinformed. The hon. member for Waterford had quoted the decisions of the Juries at the late assizes as a proof that measures of coercion were not required in Ireland. Now, he would ask that hon. Member, whether crime had diminished in Ireland in consequence of those decisions or not? He was sorry to say, that the amount of crime continued as great as ever, and that day after day fresh accounts were brought to Government of outrages committed and atrocities perpetrated. The hon. Gentleman had stated on a former night, as a proof of the
 1279 1280 1281 1282 1283
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Suppression of Disturbances (Ireland) Bill. Order read, and the noble Lord moved that the Bill be read a third time.
 An Hon. Member  considered it to be most ungrateful to insult an individual who had so liberally come forward to present so munificent a gift to the nation, and refuse to accept such a gift but upon certain terms. The hon. member for Oldham appeared to assume that the property in question was purchased with the money of the petitioner. If it were not so, the argument of the hon. Member must fall to the ground. It was most monstrous to suppose, that in a free country, like England, a man had not a right to dispose of his property as he pleased. What greater tyranny could be committed, than preventing, by legislative interference, a man from disposing of his own property? He considered the proceeding, and the line of argument adopted by the hon. member for Oldham, as most extraordinary.
 Mr. Baring  begged to observe, that the present mode of proceeding was of a most novel character. When individuals had
 1339
 Mr. Baring  stated, that if the public were admitted every day, as on the days of public admission, when there were generally more than 2,000 visitors passing through the rooms, it would be impossible for the officers to perform their duties. He would assure the hon. Member (Sir Samuel Whalley) that there would be no difficulty in his admission on any of the six days of the week. [ The hon. Member dissented by saying that he had found difficulty
 Mr. Pryme  thought, that if such exhibitions were kept open to a later hour, to a period after the mechanic had left his work, every purpose would be answered without resorting to the extreme expedient of keeping it open on Sundays.
 Mr. Baring  agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite, that it would be most desirable that a distinct and general notice should be given to the public of the days and hours on which they could get access to the Museum; but not only during the holidays would any person applying for admission, either for scientific purposes or any known artists, be admitted; but any person from the country, stating, that he was obliged to leave town the next day would find ready access given. As to keeping the Museum open on Sundays, Good Fridays, and days of that description, he must confess, though he was no
 1343
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  would move, before the Speaker left the Chair, that the oath contained in the Catholic Relief Bill to be taken by Catholics taking their seats in that House, be read. The present was, he thought, the fittest opportunity for calling the attention of the House to that subject. In doing so he hoped he should get credit for not being actuated by any improper feeling, for he was only taking that course which his duty pointed out to him. The oath to which he referred was enacted and made part of the Bill for the relief of Roman Catholics in order to
 1349 1350 "No, no" from "No, no," No, no "I, A. B. do sincerely promise and swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to his Majesty King George the Fourth, and will defend him to the utmost of ray power against all conspiracies and attempts whatever which shall be made against his person, crown, or dignity; and I will do my utmost endeavour to disclose and make known to his Majesty, his heirs and successors, all treasons and traitorous conspiracies which may be formed against him or them." and I do faithfully
 1351
 Mr. O'Connell  said, be would not detain the House by giving any detailed answer to the ludicrous calumnies which the hon. Member had raked up, for all those calumnies had been already scouted with ridicule by all who had liberal or Christian feelings. The hon. Member talked of the compact with the Catholics. There had been none but that of the treaty of Limerick, which had been shamefully violated to their injury by the Protestants. The Catholics had come to that House to demand their rights, to be placed on terms of civil equality with their Protestant fellow-subjects. They had asked for that only, and would not have accepted anything beyond that, even if it had been offered. The statement of the hon. Member was only fitted for the days of John Knox, and probably in his days it would have been followed by the shedding of blood. As to the assertion of the council of Constance or Lateran having declared that no faith was to be kept
 1352 l
 Mr. Pryme  expressed his surprise at the arguments which had just been addressed to the House. In his opinion, the Legislature had a perfect right to deal with
 1368 1369
 Lord John Russell  would endeavour like the right hon. Baronet to confine himself to the question immediately before the House, but at the same time it was impossible not to see that the whole of the Resolutions were closely connected with the plan of Church reform propounded in the Bill already introduced to the House. He must observe with respect to the general object of these Resolutions, and of the Bill with which they were connected, that it was his wish to maintain the Church of Ireland, although not perhaps exactly in the same manner as some hon. Gentlemen appeared to desire. The right hon. Gentleman asked how it was possible to abolish Church-cess, until the House knew its actual amount. Though he did not know exactly the amount used for Church purposes, he believed that the whole sum levied was about 60,000 l l 1408 1409 1410
 Lord John Russell  felt it necessary to say a few words with respect to these two petitions. As to the first of them, having pledged himself to inquire into the circumstances connected with it, he begged to say, that he had made inquiries at the Horse Guards, the result of which was sufficient to satisfy him that the petitioner had no ground for the allegations contained in his petition. The petition had been first sent to the hon. member for Middlesex, who sent it to Sir John Hob-
 1346 l l 1347
 Lord John Russell  hoped that the clause which the right hon. Baronet had to propose would answer all the purposes contemplated by the hon. member for Surrey. He trusted, however, that that clause would leave it to the discretion of Sir John Soane.
 Mr. Shaw  would not offer any opinion on the subject until he saw the course taken by Catholic Members, on matters which should come before them. As to what had been said by the hon. and learned member for Kirkcudbright (Mr. Fergus-son), that the oath was to have the same effect on Protestants as on Catholics, he would only say, that if that were the meaning of the oath, he did not see why it was imposed at all, or why it should not be taken by both.
 Mr. Shaw  recommended that the first Resolution should be agreed to, and that the discussion should be continued tomorrow on the second Resolution, which, in fact, was the real subject of debate.
 Mr. Finch  said, the speech of the hon. and learned member for Leeds showed clearly enough that Ministers were not fit to undertake Church Reform. Much had been said by the hon. and learned Member as to the Protestant reformation not having been very successful in Ireland; but why was the reformation in that country so long delayed? He would answer, that it was in consequence of misgovernment. The Protestant clergy of Ireland had, however, exerted themselves with great zeal and with not a little success. They had entered on the task of disseminating education with much alacrity; and the consequence was that 200,000 Roman Catholic children were educated by their efforts. That success, too, it should be observed, was obtained in opposition to the exertions of the Roman Catholic priests. The next thing they endeavoured to do was to establish a standard of faith; and-with that view tens of thousands of copies of the Bible were distributed through Ireland; and that likewise in opposition to the exertions of the Catholic priesthood. The Irish language was also studied, and the clergy were thus enabled to preach in that language. So much for what the Protestants had done. But, on the other hand, what was the conduct of the Government? Did Ministers during the last Parliament, evince a desire to uphold that species of education in Ireland? They did not. Instead of proceeding on the old system, they had patronized a new system of education which had the good fortune to be approved of by Dr. Doyle. When Ministers thus gave their hands to the Roman Catholic party, and slighted the Protestant, was it fair for the hon. and learned Gentleman, who was a member of the Government to throw the blame on the Protestant clergy? There appeared to be three parties in Ireland who viewed the Church with angry feelings. First, there were the Dissenters; nothing would satisfy them but the separation of Church and State. Second, the Roman Catholics; they expected the restoration of their church; they wished to enjoy supremacy both in Church and State. The third was the revolutionary party, who hated the
 1398
 Mr. Morrison  was aware that it had been stated that there were 123 days in the course of each year on which the public were admitted, and supposed therefore his own applications must have been peculiarly unfortunate. Within the last two years, however, he had made at least a dozen attempts to obtain admission, but had always called upon a wrong day. He thought that there was another class of the community deserving of equal attention with artists, and those were the manufacturers. At this season of the year, a vast number of persons interested in manufactures of the country came to the
 1341
 Mr. Briscoe  trusted that the House would postpone the consideration of the third reading of the Bill, as he had been enabled to make himself master of very few of its provisions; but from what little he had heard of the subject, he considered it a case of extreme hardship and great moral injustice. If the objects of art left by. Sir J. Soane were sent to the British Museum, it would be of more use to the public, and a large sum would be thus saved for the grand-children. He suggested that it would be proper to delay the third reading of the Bill until hon. Gentlemen should have made themselves more fully acquainted with its object.
 Mr. Halcomb  said, that he entered upon the discussion fully impressed with a sense of its overwhelming importance. He thought, however, that he should be able to show to the House that the proposed measure was unjust, inexpedient, unconstitutional, and, indeed, contrary to the
 1378 l l l l l 1379 1380
 Mr. Roebuck  trusted, that something would be done for the purpose of having the British Museum opened on those holidays, and those days when the working-classes were able only to attend it, such as Christmas-day, Good Friday, and even on Sundays [No, no.] He begged to remind hon. Members, that such exhibitions were always kept open on Sundays on the Continent.
 Mr. Warre  was surprised at the opinions he had heard to-night respecting the violation of the King's Coronation Oath, if he should consent to this measure. It seemed to him that there was no pretence for using any such argument. If he wanted authority to justify him in his opinion he might find it in the sentiments expressed by the Protestant Bishop of Llandaff, who, in writing to a friend in 1805, said, when mentioning this subject, "The Coronation Oath is a confirmation of the promises made by the King to the people. The obligation is broken when it is disregarded, though both the Parliament and the people claim its performance; it is relaxed when the people declare, through their Representatives in Parliament, that they do not require the performance of it." An hon. Member had referred to the fifth article of the Union between Great Britain and Ireland, with a view of showing that a measure like the present could not receive
 1381 1382 l l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Hume  trusted, that the House would not be led away by the statements of the hon. member for Oldham, that the Bill would do the most serious injury. He fully agreed with that hon. Member in; his observation, that the Scriptures required that we should provide for our children I and the law enforced the obligation even; to our grandchildren; but there was one allegation which the hon. Member had: made, to which he wished to call the) particular attention of the House. From, the hon. member for Oldham's statement, it would appear, that the children of the; petitioner, Mr. George Soane, after his I death, would be the heirs of Sir John, and that the petitioner was the only son Sir) John Soane ever had. That was not the case; but the fact was, that the children of the elder son, who was now dead, would; be the heirs-at-law of Sir John Soane; and if Sir John were to die to-morrow, 2 the whole of his property would go to, those children, and the petitioner and his children would not be entitled to a
 1335
 Mr. Hume  said, he highly approved of it, and he hoped the hon. member for Oldham would see that it accomplished the object for which he had contended. He (Mr. Hume) could not, however, help thinking, that Sir John Soane might still
 1340 l l
 Mr. Hume  hoped the public would
 1338 l
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the argument drawn from the 5th article of the Act of Union had been relied on by Mr. Canning, and refuted by Mr. Brougham. In 1825, Mr. Canning had called on the clerk to read the article on a Motion of the member for Middlesex relative to the Church. Mr. Brougham observed that the two Churches were to be united in "Government, discipline, and faith." Temporalities were not mentioned.  "Expressum fucit cessare taciturn." 1372 Clarendon's Rebellion 1373 "converso in pretium Deo." Fœdera 1374 1375 quarta pars 1376 1377
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, all it had in view was, that the Catholics should give the same security to the Established Church by their oaths, as the Protestants were supposed to give by their duty as Protestants.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  begged to disclaim any concurrence in the opinions of the hon. member for Cupar (Mr. A. Johnstone). The charge of not keeping faith with persons from whom they differed in
 1353
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that with reference to the first petition, he should feel it his duty to oppose the motion for granting copies of the proceedings of the Court-martial. He would maintain that a strong  prima facie prima facie 1348
 Dr. Lushington,  as his name had been alluded to by the hon. member for Cupar, wished to say a word in explanation, and to correct a mistake respecting what had fallen from him on the occasion alluded to. When an hon. Member, a Catholic, had talked of destroying the Church, he did, in the warmth of the moment, read to him the oath taken by Catholic Members of that House—not, however, with the view to contend that Catholic Members, or any other Members not belonging to the Established Church, had no right to interfere or take part in any question, no matter what, which might come before the House—but to show that hon. Member that a sense of duty and of his obligation on oath, ought not to permit him to talk of destroying an establishment which, as a Member of Parliament, he had sworn not to injure or weaken. He would have explained his meaning on that evening,
 1354
 Mr. Hodges  was upon the Committee on the Bill, and could say, that all the Members were unanimous in their Report. Valuing the bequest highly, and conceiving that no injustice was done to any one, he should give his support to the Bill.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the order in which the Resolutions were brought forward was calculated to create some embarrassment. The first he looked upon as merely ancillary, creating in fact, the machinery by which the system proposed to be introduced by those that followed was to be worked. It was impossible, however, to discuss the first Resolution without feeling himself called upon to enter with some minuteness into the merits of the plan which was involved in the whole series. It was, therefore, that he rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which was unquestionably of great importance; and though, from the situation he filled as one of the Representatives in that House on whom the care of the interests of the Church of Ireland more immediately devolved, he yet did not mean to discuss the subject as one affecting the established Church in Ireland alone, but as one in which the interests of the Established Church in England were equally involved. It was not his intention to protract the measure by needless debate; but he hoped that a question of so much importance would receive a full and ample discussion, and that hon. Members would feel it their duly, before they came to a decision, to enter into an examination of the whole subject. He did not mean to trespass on the House at any extraordinary length, but he must claim the attention of hon. Members for a reasonable time, while he endeavoured to show that the Resolutions were unjust in principle, and were not entitled to support even on the ground of expediency. Before he proceeded to discuss the Resolutions, he begged to state that he had received a number of petitions on the subject of the Bill which had recently been withdrawn, but the leading principles of which were adopted in the Resolutions then under consideration. One of those petitions was from the great body of the Irish Prelates—others from large bodies of the clergy, and several of them were also from the laity. All the petitions expressed the greatest apprehension with
 1356 l 1357 l s d l s d l l l l l l 1358 l l s s d s s d s 1359 s d d d d. d l l l l l l l l l l l 1360 l 1361 1362 1363 l s d l l 1364 1365 1366 1367
 Mr. Macaulay,  after stating, that he felt considerably embarrassed in rising to address the House on the present occasion, proceeded to say, that he had two species of opposition to contend against—that of those hon. Gentlemen who did not conceive the Bill went far enough, and that of those who either considered that it went too far, or of those who believed that such a measure never should have been entered upon at all. Now, with respect to the first, he was glad, at least, to learn from the hon. and learned Member opposite, that the Bill was satisfactory so far as it went, and that it would not have, in fact, been equally judicious, if at present it did go further. On this opinion of the
 1384 1385 1386 1387 * * 1388 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393
 Mr. Cobbett  knew nothing of the law as it related to the disposition of property, and perhaps in that point of view Sir John Soane had the law on his side, but he considered it, and he thought the House should consider it, as a question of morality, He knew, however, that the law and the precepts of morality, as far as he understood them, required man, as far as as possible, to protect and give every necessary sustenance to his children and grandchildren; but by this Bill the House was called upon to aid and assist in withholding from the donor's grandchildren that sustenance to which they were entitled, and which they needed. Would that House be party to a withdrawal from this gentleman's grandchildren of their rights of sustenance? Would it countenance so unnatural an act? He hoped not, and that the House would not agree to the third reading of the Bill. It appeared that Mrs. Soane (Sir John's wife) brought him 30,000 l l 1337
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had a Petition to present against Soane's Museum Bill, which it was proposed to have read a third time that day. The petition was from Mr. George Soane, the only surviving son of Sir John Soane. The petitioner, after stating that the passing of the Bill would be to sanction a violation of those laws by which the society was held together, and that his father must have been improperly importuned and persuaded at the ninth hour before he could have been induced to alienate so large a portion of his property, since, if he had contemplated such an act for any lime previously, he must have made up his mind to take the necessary steps before he had arrived at a period of a natural decay. The petitioner prayed to be heard in person, or by Counsel or agent, at the Bar of that House against the passing of the Bill, or that the House would take such other steps as it might deem meet to prevent the object of the Bill. If the House agreed to the Bill, they would reverse the fundamental laws
 1334 l
 Mr. Cobbett  reminded the House that he had not said anything as to the deserts of the first petitioner; he had spoken only first, of the severity of the punishment; and next, of the case, supposing the allegations in the petition to be true. But, after all, he only asked for a copy of the proceedings of the Court-martial. Was that unreasonable? No. And he should certainly move for them. As to the other petitioner, the noble Lord had directed the attention of the House from nine-pence a-day to the enormous amount of 1,200,000 l
 Mr. Cobbett,  having presented several petitions, said he must take that opportunity of reverting to a petition which he had previously presented, and which he was prevented from then explaining. It was of Richard Newsham which stated, the the was a soldier in the fifty-third regiment, in March, 1831, at Gibraltar. On the 10th of that month he was discharged from the hospital, where he had been confined by illness; and on the 13th he was desired by the serjeant to show his kit and ammunition. He was asked why his ammunition was not wrapped up? He answered, because he had not got the proper paper; that he went to the canteen for the paper, but could not get the proper kind there: that the case was reported to Captain Shakspear Phillips, who ordered him three days' drill. The petitioner stated, that he had been unable to get the proper kind of paper, when the Captain used some very blasphemous language, and ordered the Serjeant to send him to drill. The petitioner said that such language ought not to be used to any man; upon which the Captain ordered him into confinement, from which he was taken to be tried before a Garrison Court-martial, which sentenced him to receive 500 lashes; but General Don, who was the Governor of Gibraltar, thought the offence comparatively slight, and he mitigated the sentence to 300 lashes, which Newsham received, and from which he suffered most severely; that while he was lying in the hospital, he reported the case to Lieutenant-Colonel Constantine, who promised that a Court-martial should be held upon Captain Phillips, but of that he never heard more; that afterwards he applied for leave of absence to Captain Carnaby, which was granted; but as a non-commissioned officer was not present at the time. Captain Carnaby afterwards denied that he had given such leave, and he was reported as being absent without leave, for which he was called before a regimental Court-martial, and ordered to receive 300 lashes. At the trial he was asked, whether he had
 1344 1345 d d d
 Mr. Cobbett  remarked, that the hon. member for Essex had said, that if the British Museum were open for a greater number of days than at present, there would require more attendants than were now engaged. Now, upon that, he would only remark, that out of the 16,000 l l 1342
 Mr. J. Feilden  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that he too thought some change was necessary, but the plan proposed by Ministers was not sufficiently
 1383
 Mr. William Roche : Sir, the question of the Address, as connected with Irish affairs, having been revived, may I be permitted to say a few words. I know it has and may be remarked, that Irish Members have had more than their due share of the debate; but, Sir, that was rather a matter of necessity than choice, the subject coming more peculiarly home to their business and their bosoms. Sir, it is far from my inclination or intentions to occupy much of the time of the House, or unnecessarily to prolong the discussion of a subject which has been so ably handled, so amply elucidated, so almost perfectly exhausted, as regards the condition and complaints of Ireland, by my hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin, and by the many and eloquent Gentlemen who followed and supported his representations and remonstrances. But, Sir, with my feelings on the wrongs, the wants, and just expectations of Ireland—feelings it would be rather strange, I did not entertain (coming as I do from so historically interesting a portion of that country as the city of Limerick, which I have the honour to represent) a city not only loyal and brave in olden times, but in recent recollections, for it was her regiment of Militia, though vastly out-numbered, that gave the first check to the French invaders under Humbert. But, Sir, in expressing my feelings on Irish affairs, I am no less actuated, I assure the House, by an anxious desire for the prosperity, harmony, and consequent strength of the empire at large—and I also desire to express them in deference to the constituency which sent me here. It is, therefore, Sir, that I wish to declare my coincidence in the sentiments of regret and disappointment, which have fallen from my hon. precursors in the debate, as regards the meditated conduct towards Ireland, one of unwise, unkind, and uncalled for mixture of coercion and concession. Sir, I could not but be struck during the course of this debate by
the painful necessity which every Gentleman felt, on alluding to Ireland, to use the epithet 'unfortunate,' which, however true, and arising from sympathetic feelings, must have been no less grating to those who uttered it than mortifying to us Irish Members who heard it. Into an analysis of the causes which produced this unhappy condition, I shall not now enter further than to say, that as it was produced by bad treatment and bad government, the total reversal of that conduct and that system must be the obvious remedy. Sir, if even at this late period of Ireland's misrule and misfortunes, measures were adopted, couched in a spirit of thorough redress and sincere conciliation, unmixed and unalloyed by those announcements of menace and coercion so utterly unnecessary in the present ample sufficiency of the law,—so susceptible is the Irish character of grateful emotions, so disposed towards an oblivion of the past, in the anticipation of the future, that the post which wafted over to its shores such glad tidings, and such an auspicious Royal Speech, would accomplish more in one day to allay discontent and ferment, by inducing amity of hearts and interests, than the most powerful combination of military and constabulary force, which tends rather to exasperate than cure the disease. But, Sir, when it is seen, that the case of Ireland is so misunderstood and distorted—when it is seen that the cure of its evils forms such a compound of contrarieties, coercion and conciliation—irritation and counter-irritation (to use a medical phrase)—what good can be expected from such conflicting remedies, or from concessions attended by the old hacknied and inveterate habit of disparaging and neutralizing every boon (or rather act of justice) by some counteracting restraint; and truly has it been observed in the debate, what a different line of conduct is pursued towards this country when any circumstance disturbs
 1367 1368
 The Speaker  inquired the prayer of the petition, and on being informed what it Prayed for, he decided, that before it could be received the sanction of the Government must be given.
 Sir Edward Codrington  presented a Petition from the proprietors of the Thames Tunnel, praying for aid to enable them to complete that work. The gallant Admiral said, the work was peculiarly entitled to the support of the House. The petitioners had already expended 170,000 l 1333 l l l
 Sir John Hanmer  said, that he should not honestly discharge his duty to his constituents if he did not take an early opportunity of entering his most decided protest against the Resolutions of the noble Lord. He presumed that these Resolutions were to be viewed as a prelude to a bill similar in its provisions to that which had already been under the consideration of the House. If so, he could only say, that the House was now called upon to assent to propositions which affirmed the right of the King upon the Throne to violate his Coronation Oath—to violate the provisions of the Act of Union, all the established principles for the protection of property; and, more than he had language to express—went to unsettle all the rights and equities of society. This being his view of the question, he had risen thusearly, young and unknown as he was, to declare his sentiments. From the mistakes already made in the introduction of the measure which had been withdrawn, the House would see that this was no ordinary matter of legislation that they were engaged in. If the delay that had occurred should have the effect of palling and blunting the prevailing appetite for change, it would have been well that the necessity for these Resolutions had been created. By these Resolutions it was proposed to lay a tax upon one portion of their fellow-
 1370 1371
 Sir Robert Inglis  was compelled, by the allusion of his hon. and learned friend, to address the House on the present occasion. If he had reason, on most occasions, to request the indulgence of the House when he spoke, how much stronger reasons had he in this instance, when he rose after the able and eloquent speech which had just been delivered, and when, from indisposition, he could scarcely hope to be audible, and could not go into the subject as he could wish. He hardly expected when he came into the House that he should have been called upon to enter into a defence of the Protestant religion generally,
 1394 1395 1396 1397
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if every Member who had spoken had adhered to the rule adopted by the noble Lord, and had confined himself strictly to the Resolution before the Committee, he should have been glad to follow such an excellent example. As the first Resolution was a mere resolution of form, a resolution to the effect that certain Commissioners should be appointed, and as the assenting to it would not deprive him of objecting to the appointment of such Commissioners hereafter, he should have made a shorter speech even than that of the noble Lord, had it not been that the whole debate of the night had turned upon the main object of the intended measure, contained in the Resolutions which were to follow; and as it appeared to him more convenient that they should now discuss the main question, instead of resuming the discussion upon it, with five hours and a half of debate lost, he would then enter into that discussion. He begged, before doing so, to observe, with regard to the present Resolution, that he doubted much whether they ought to establish the distinction of salaried and unsalaried Commissioners. It was plain that the ecclesiastical unsalaried Commissioners would be frequently called away to the performance of other duties; that some of them would be summoned annually to London, to attend their parliamentary duties in the House of Lords, and that therefore the whole practical work of the commission would devolve upon those salaried Commissioners who held their situations at the pleasure of the Crown. He should therefore reserve to himself the right of objecting hereafter to granting salaries to those Commissioners. He should now proceed to the main subject of the debate which had been raised by the second and third Resolutions. The second Resolution regarded the abolition of first-fruits, and the provision of a substitute in lieu thereof; and the third Resolution proposed the complete abolition of Vestry-cess. It appeared to him that it would have
 1400 l l * * 1401 l l 1402 l 1403 l l l Et quæ Desperat tractata nistescere posse relinquit, 1404 1405 1406
 Sir Robert Peel  said, in the present instance a gentleman of great eminence in art had devoted his own money to the accumulation of most valuable relics. He had done so by denying himself indulgence which other persons in an equal station of life generally enjoyed; and he proposed to present that valuable collection—a most liberal act, indeed, on his part—to the public; and all that he now
 1336
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had a clause to propose, which might, perhaps, answer the objections of the hon. member for Oldham. The effect of the clause would be to enable Sir John Soane, at any time after the passing of the Act, to bequeath all his valuable relics to the British Museum, instead of placing them in two houses, the property of Sir John Soane, in Lincoln's Inn-fields. Those two houses, by the clause, would thereby be placed again in his absolute power and control, and also so much of the Bill as related to the money; he would have the whole control of disposing of the 30,000 l
 Sir Robert Peel  was of opinion, that immense advantage would accrue, if the most public notice possible was given of the hours and days on which the Museum was open. He knew that many persons coining from the country, who were extremely desirous of seeing the British Museum, were disappointed because they happened to go there on a day on which it was not open.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  was of opinion, that great facility would be afforded for inspecting the collection, if it were removed to the British Museum. He must, however, complain that it was not continually open. He had been disappointed of seeing the British Museum on two or three occasions, in consequence of having mistaken the days of exhibition, and he would, therefore, suggest that more trouble should be taken to apprise the public when the exhibition was open, and when closed, which might be done by occasional advertisements in the daily papers.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that Sir John Soane only exercised a power vested in him by the common law of England, and that there was no claim on the part of the petitioner, either in law or equity, or any substantial reason why the third reading of the Bill should be postponed.
 Lord Althorp  reminded the House, that in the progress of the Catholic Relief Bill, a clause had been proposed to prevent the interference of Catholic Members in any matters relating purely to the Church, and the House had rejected it; and, as that was the case, he thought that Catholic Members had as much right as Protestants to take part in the discussion of any matter that came before the House as Protestants.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. member for the University of Oxford had observed, that very serious duties would devolve on those Commissioners who were not sworn servants of the King, as in them would be vested the power of superintending Church property in Ireland, which now rested with the Crown. They certainly would be armed with authority to suspend appointments in cases where duty had not been performed for three years prior to the passing of the Bill. Some new powers would undoubtedly be given to them, but not such powers as the Crown now possessed for superintending the Church property of Ireland. The hon. Member had asked what was to become of the Church patronage that now belonged to the see which it was proposed to abolish? It was the intention of the Government that such patronage should remain with the Bishop, to whose see the diocess that was no longer to possess a Bishop should be annexed. It was not intended, as the hon. Member seemed to think, to place that patronage at the disposal of the Commissioners. The Commissioners would not have any of those powers which the hon. Gentleman seemed to imagine would supersede the authority of the Crown. No intention of the kind existed. The imiting of sees had not only been done in Ireland, but frequently in England, by Acts of Parliament. There was a remarkable instance of the union of Westminster with the see of London, which took place with the approbation of Cranmer and Ridley. Certainly the alteration as to the levying of the Church cess
 1399
 Lord Althorp  said, that the subject to which the Resolutions referred, which he was about to move having been opened to the House on a former evening, it would be then unnecessary for him to take up its time by going over the same ground. No doubt many hon. Members were prepared to discuss the principle of the measure in the Committee, to which, of course, he could not object; but on his own part it would be only trespassing on the tine of the House to re-open what he had stated on a former night. He would make only one remark. A part of the proposed plan, as the House was aware, was the abolition of the Church cess; but if the Bill which had been brought in had been carried through, there would not have been time enough to effect the abolition of the Church cess this year; but as it would be desirable that such cess should no longer be collected in Ireland, he thought it right to say, that Government would provide for that abolition this year by other means. The noble Lord moved the following Resolutions:—
 1. That it is the opinion of this Committee that it is expedient that the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland should be authorized to appoint Ecclesiastical Commissioners for the purpose of carrying into effect any Act that may be passed in the present Session of Parliament to alter and amend the laws relating to the temporalities of the Church in Ireland; and that the said Lord-lieutenant be empowered to order and appoint such salary or other emoluments as he shall deem fit to be paid to such Commissioners, not being Bishops. 2. That it is the opinion of this Committee that it is expedient to make provision for the abolition of the first-fruits in Ireland, and in lieu thereof, to levy an annual assessment upon all bishoprics and archbishoprics, and upon all benefices, dignitaries, and other spiritual promotions above the yearly value of 200 l 1355 3. That it is the opinion of this Committee that vestry assessments for any of the purposes to defray which the annual assessment mentioned in the preceding resolution may be applicable should be abolished; and that any law, statute, or usage, authorizing such assessment, should be repealed."
 An Hon. Member , in rising to bear testimony to the truth of the statement of the petition which had been presented by the hon. member for Oldham (Mr. Fielden) felt bound to complain of the course pursued by his hon. colleague. Though it might be competent to that hon. Member, if he thought fit to address the House at length, to bring forward statements as to the distress of the country, yet in those statements he thought he ought to avoid introducing discussions which might have a tendency to make the people discontented.
 Sir John Tyrrell , in putting the question to the noble Lord opposite regarding certain franks said to have been given to the members of the Political Unions by a member of the Government, staled that he thought it due to the character not only of the Government generally, but to the individual character of the noble Lord himself, who denied all knowledge of the Unions, to the noble Earl at the head of the Government, and to the hon. Member who had made the assertion, and who was ready to repeat it, that a satisfactory answer should be given to his question, not only by the noble Lord himself, but by the Government. If the answer of the noble Lord was satisfactory, he would let the matter drop; but if not, he reserved to himself the privilege of proceeding further.
 Sir John Tyrrell  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would not think, that he was going too far when he stated his intention, notwithstanding the explanation given, of persevering in his Motion. He would, however, do so, because he thought the denial of the Government of the statement made to the hon. member for Tralee, involved the character of a gentleman of respectability, who was a barrister. He would take the opportunity, too, of asking whether a report current was true—that one of the members of the Government was a member of a Political Union? He did not know but he might go further, and move for a return of all the members of his Majesty's Government who were members of Political Unions. The hon. Baronet concluded by moving that Messrs. Parkes and Rushton be examined at the Bar of the House to-morrow.
 An Hon. Member  said, that it appeared to him nothing more nor less than a cock and a bull story, the foundation for which was mere hearsay: he had never heard so frivolous or ill-founded a charge. If the House paid any serious or lengthened attention to it, they would not only be deservedly laughed at by the whole country, but the people would have good reason for making a serious complaint that the time of the House was occupied in this ridiculous and reprehensible manner, when affairs of such moment ought to be under discussion.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to take that opportunity of clearing up a misconception which he believed to have gone forth—namely, that he intended to make a Motion for giving Poor Laws to Ireland. This was incorrect; he might have thrown out some intimation on the subject, but he had given no decided notice. He would say, most decidedly, that from having read the extracts referred to, it would be impossible for him to acquiesce in any system of Poor Laws for Ireland: among all the misfortunes of his unhappy country, it had still the consolation of having hitherto avoided the Poor Laws.
 Colonel Wood  was in favour of the proposed measure, as a charitable and humane provision for the miserably indigent poor of Ireland. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex, it did not seem to him to bear on the case, for it was quite a different thing to introduce a new system free from the errors of the old system into a country, and to set about revising so long existent and complicated code of Poor Laws, as was acted upon in this country. He trusted that the hon. member for Knaresborough would persevere; and without waiting till the Poor Laws were cleared from all abuses in England, would give to the Irish a system of Poor Laws purged from the evils and abuses to which the hon. member for Middlesex had alluded.
 Mr. Wynn , said, that the Committee ought not to vote a general sum without knowing what was the actual sum required. It was usual for Committees to vote not merely that a tax should be levied, but that a tax should be levied of a certain amount. The noble Lord did not seem to be quite certain of the amount of the exclusive Vestry-cess, and that should be precisely stated before the Resolutions were voted. It would be better, in his opinion, to delay the whole matter till after the holidays, or at least till Government could put the House into possession of correct information as to the sum demanded.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  thought the Gentlemen opposite, ought to be satisfied with what the noble Lord had already stated. He would not have been sorry, had he gone a little further; but at the same time he thought the admissions made by the noble Lord were as much as could be expected from a Minister of the Crown, whom they certainly could not ask to alter the material principle on which the Bill was founded, in its present stage.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  was glad that his hon. friend avowed his hostility to the Establishment in an open, manly manner. The Church had less to dread from avowed foes, than from the undermining of concealed enemies. But he denied that the sentiments of his hon. friend were participated in by the people of Scotland. He was himself an office-bearer of the Church of Scotland; but he considered this to be a common cause to Scotland and England. The Church of England, in his opinion, was now on its trial. He had heard a great many theoretical statements; but he had made up his mind to defend, upon all occasions, the Established Churches both of England and Scotland. He expressed his satisfaction at the concessions which had been made by the noble Lord. It was said, that there were two parties in this case—the people and the Church; but, for his own part, he was prepared to say, that by supporting the Church Establishment in Ireland, they
 48
 Mr. Faithfull  said, he would only make a few remarks, in order to protect himself from the charge of inconsistency, if his vote now should appear to differ from that which he should give when the noble Lord brought in his Bill. He concurred in all that part which referred to taking away; but he did not approve of that mode in which what was taken away was to be
 49
 Mr. Lennard  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex had mentioned him as one of the persons who formerly voted with him for the abolition of flogging in the army, and he would be proud to vote with him again to attain the same object. He held the practice in the utmost detestation. The country was constantly hearing accounts of punishments inflicted on soldiers which would not be allowed to be applied to criminals convicted of the most atrocious offences. Why, he asked, should the British soldier be thus proscribed? The soldiers of other countries were not subjected to that degrading punishment; and he could not conceive that there was anything peculiar in the character of his countrymen which rendered the application of the lash necessary. It was an anomaly that one description of punishment should be applied to officers, and another to privates. It was contrary to the principle of justice that there should be any inequality of punishments. The argument urged in support of ogging was, that the private soldiers were so bad a set of men that they could not be kept in order without it; but it was the punishment of flogging which deterred a better class of men from entering the army. Abolish the punishment, its alleged cause, which was in reality its effect, would quickly disappear.
 Mr. O'Connell  was happy that the weight of Government was not thrown into the scale against the clause of the hon. member for Middlesex. If, therefore, the practice of military flogging were to be continued—if torture were still to be allowed in the British army, it would not be the fault of Ministers, but of the Reformed Parliament. Officers were incompetent judges upon the subject, and their opinions ought therefore to have no influence on the decision of the House. He called upon the House to remember, that in our army alone the practice still prevailed, which still kept up that wide distance between the officer and the private which existed in no other body of troops. Among them there was a degree of familiarity, he might call it brotherhood, which making them mutually dependent on the good opinion of each other, preserved discipline without cruelty. The question was, whether not only British subjects, but the very natives of Britain, were to be legally put to the torture; and he was sorry to see that many who turned up the whites of their eyes, "till the strings of them (as Sir Pertinax said) were ready to crack "at the notion of flogging negroes, were not present on this occasion to give a vote in favour of their own countrymen. The House ought to interfere at once to put an end to the degrading practice; and when once flogging was abolished, a better class of men would be induced to enter the army, especially at the present moment, when labour was so cheap and abundant, that the reward of the labourer was reduced to the narrowest pittance. There was no flogging in the army of Napoleon, and its discipline was sufficiently good to ensure victory. As long
 54 That in the General's but a choleric word, Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy—
 Mr. Curteis  could not let the House go into Committee on this Bill without recording on that occasion, as he should on every other, his utter abhorrence of this system of punishment. There might be found several substitutes for it. For instance, it was found, that the most furious animals were tamed by a course of starvation. He should most strenuously support the abolition of military flogging though he agreed in the propriety of limiting the abolition in the first instance to the United Kingdom.
 Major Handley  would also strongly support the abolition of military flogging as regarded troops at home; he did not think there would be any difficulty in finding an effective substitute for this mode of punishment. But, with respect to the army in service abroad, he must say, that he thought summary punishment, from the nature of their position, could not be dispensed with. They could not on a march very well have recourse to imprisonment, or to the very extraordinary mode of punishment suggested by the hon. Member who spoke last. Therefore, while he strongly advocated the abolition of this punishment with respect to the army at home, he should object to its remission with respect to troops on foreign service. He only asked for the power to continue it; he was fully convinced, that
 57
 An Hon. Member  most strongly objected to the extraordinary and unfair distinction which was proposed to be made between troops in foreign service and troops at home. He thought all soldiers were alike entitled to the same treatment. A great deal had been said, and he did not object to it, with respect to the fine discipline preserved in the French army without the influence of corporal punishment; but hon. Gentlemen must also bear in mind that punishments were frequently carried into effect in that army—such as shooting, and obliging deserters to carry heavy irons—which if attempted to be introduced here would meet with as much opposition and excite as strong feelings of horror and dislike as the punishment which the hon. member for Middlesex had moved to abolish.
 Captain Curteis  called the attention of the House to the warrant recently issued decreasing the pensions of soldiers—which he said, would tend still further to lower the character of the army, and increase the necessity for inflicting corporal punishment. He was aware that many recruits were enlisted in a state of drunkenness, and cared little for any consequences, but that was not the case with the inhabitants of Scotland who supplied our army with many soldiers. If more than half the pension hitherto allowed to the soldier, after a certain period of service, were taken away, it would be impossible—for the future—to obtain any recruits, except from the prisons and workhouses. Already the army had become too common a refuge for the abandoned, for whenever a man of notoriously bad character was brought before a Magistrate at the Quarter Sessions, he invariably recommended him to enlist. If the order to which he had alluded were not rescinded, the army would soon consist entirely of such characters. Would they be a fit class of persons upon whom to try a new system for the enforcement of discipline? Imprisonment had been recommended as a substitute for flogging; but he had no hesitation in saying, that to confine a soldier in a public prison, and compel him to become the associate of men convicted of every crime, was the very worst species of punishment that could possibly be adopted. To imprison soldiers in common gaols would be to make them worse when they came out than when they went in; but he would support a motion for the erection of prisons in barracks, which he thought might be made to supply the place of flogging.
 Sir John Byng  stated, that he had formerly agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex as to the expediency of abolishing the punishment of flogging in the army; and he had accordingly been induced to make the experiment of abstaining altogether from the use of corporal punishment with respect to the soldiers under his command, for a period of two years; but it did not succeed. At the expiration of the time the regiment was in a much worse state of discipline than before. He had, therefore, after this experiment, and much consideration upon the subject, been led to the conclusion, that to do away altogether with the power of inflicting corporal punishment would vitally affect the discipline of the British army. It had been repeatedly urged, that a substitute might be found equally efficient with the punishment now in use. But what was it to be? He had for a long time turned his attention anxiously to the subject, but he had never yet been able to devise an adequate substitute. He did not mean to contend, that corporal punishment was frequently to be resorted to, but he maintained that the power of inflicting it should be continued to commanding officers; and in so saying, he well knew he was speaking the sentiments of the General Commanding-in-chief; and if the power were continued, as he recommended, the House would have no reason to apprehend that it would be abused, for the practice of flogging in the army was decreasing from year to year. To the Amendment of the hon. Member he was decidedly opposed. He thought no difference should be made between the soldier at home and abroad. The distinction proposed would be most invidious; in his opinion, it would be much better to abolish the system of corporal punishment altogether, than agree to the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Hawes  rose to order. He would ask the Speaker whether the hon. Gentleman was strictly confining himself to the question that was before the House? If an hon. Member was to occupy the House upwards of an hour upon one question, it would be impossible to accomplish the object for which the House then sat, which was the presentation of petitions.
 Mr. Rotch  could not understand why the Ministers should have asked for money to build solitary cells in all the barracks in the country, if they did not mean to use them. He knew from long experience, that solitary confinement was more efficacious to prevent crimes than flogging.—The House was so impatient, calling question continually, that the hon. Gentleman sat down without stating whether he would or would not support the Amendment.
 Mr. Charles Wood  having been referred to by his noble friend, raust positively deny that he had ever given a frank, knowing it to be intended for any Political
 33
 Mr. Cuthbert Rippon  observed, that religion was a purely personal conviction. He would ask, whether any one ought to be compelled to pay for supporting a form of worship which he believed to be contrary to the Word of God? Was it not monstrous to attempt to control men's consciences? Was it just, that Parliament should interfere with the means of salvation? If such an event as a religious revolution were to take place; if the Roman Catholics should again be elevated to supremacy, and the Protestants of England compelled to pay for the support of their clergy, would they not consider it a monstrous invasion of their rights? He would only appeal to Gentlemen to do to others as they would be done by. It was, perhaps, premature at that time to enter into this part of the question; but he thought it necessary to make these remarks, in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member who spoke last. He was himself a member of the Church of England, yet he did not find fault with another because "he sees salvation on the same hill-top, but treads another path to reach it."
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he felt grateful to the noble Lord for the concession he had already made—and he certainly had been much mistaken if the House apprehended it was his intention to press his suggestion to a division.
 Mr. Shaw  certainly thought, that in common justice, the existing interests of the present incumbents should not be burthened with this tax. The noble Lord had greatly exaggerated the amount of Vestry-cess that was devoted to purely ecclesiastical purposes when he estimated it at 60,000 l l 41 l l l l 42 s 43
 Mr. George W. Wood  was aware that it was not proper to occupy the time of the House in discussing petitions, because, as the subjects of those petitions could not be brought satisfactorily before them, it was impossible that justice could be done to them. He was aware of the distress which existed in some parts of the country, and he considered it to be a subject well worthy of the most attentive consideration of the House. He would, though most reluctantly, offer a few observations on what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Oldham, to whom he gave the utmost credit for the purity of his motives, and who, he was sure, would not intentionally mislead the House. He thought, however, that his hon. friend was deceiving himself as to the actual condition of the working people in Lancashire. He had stated what each family had to live on per head per week, and the result of his inquiries appeared to be, that 8,362 families earned only 4,447 l s 28
 Mr. Goulburn  would consent to the Resolution passing in its present shape if the noble Lord would promise to take it into consideration, and let the discussion take place in bringing up the Report.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he would sacrifice all the objections which he had to other parts of the noble Lord's proposition—and they were many—if the noble Lord would make the sacrifice to him on the present question, that existing interests should not be taxed. He wished to avoid so manifest an injustice.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that whoever had witnessed the frightful state of misery and disease in Ireland, must, if he were possessed of any feelings of humanity, advocate the introduction of Poor Laws into that country. In the great streets in Dublin, the number and condition of the poor was frightful; so urgent was their distress,
 36
 Mr. Warburton  was extremely glad to hear the manner in which the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) below him was received. He quite agreed to the principle laid down by the hon. member for the University of Dublin, that they should deal tenderly with existing interests, however they dealt abstractedly with the property of the Church in general. He had so strong an objection to a tax upon particular interests, that if it had not been for the promise of the noble Lord, he should certainly have felt himself called upon to vote against the second Resolution.
 Mr. Cornish  felt equally conscious with the hon. Member who had just sat down, of the dislike entertained by the House to have its time occupied by lengthened discussions on the numerous petitions presented to it; but he conceived if any occasion would justify an infringement on its time, it was the important and distressing representation that had just been made. He regretted that such a momentous statement should have been made to so scanty a House—a House scarcely comprising twenty members. [" No, no
 Mr. Fielden , in reply, said, that the best answer to the hon. member for Lancashire, was contained in a letter which he received yesterday, and which contain-
 31 l l s d Cries of Shame, shame d
 Mr. John Fielden  presented a petition from Padiham, Lancashire, complaining of distress, and stating that the township contains a population of 3,529 persons, and that 246 families, or altogether 1,381 persons, had been visited in January last; that all of these capable of work, excepting four were in full employment; that their average income in wages only amounted to 1 s d d s d 19 l s d s d l s d 20 s s 21 s d l s d s d d d d s d l s d 22 s d 23 s s l s 24 s d s d l s d d d d s d s d l s d s s 25 s d d d d d
 Mr. Richards  had paid considerable attention to the subject, and had but lately arrived from Ireland, where he had also taken great pains in inquiring on this point; and since this visit he had become more convinced than ever as to the expediency and absolute necessity of this House passing some Act for providing for the indigent and half-starving poor of Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  said, this was a question of
 35
 Mr. Hume  rose to move the clause of which he had given notice, "That it shall not be lawful to inflict corporal punishment by flogging on any private soldier, corporal, or non-commissioned officer in the Army or Militia of the United Kingdom, within the United Kingdom, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding." He felt anxious to know whether Ministers would not attempt to carry into effect those opinions which they had advocated when out of office. He thought the time was now come when they ought to accomplish those measures which they had formerly supported. A charge had been made against those who advocated the abolition of flogging in the Army, that they wished to ruin the discipline of the Army. He would never admit that; and he would only reply to the charge by stating this fact—that there were some regiments in which there was no flogging, and in which, notwithstanding this, discipline was maintained as well as in those where flogging was frequent, if not better. On the 15th of March, 1824, on the third reading of the Mutiny Bill, he (Mr. Hume) had had the honour to move the following clause: "And be it further 'enacted, that it shall not be lawful to in'flict corporal punishment, by flogging, on 'any private soldier, corporal, or non-'commissioned officer, in the Army or 'Militia of the United Kingdom, within 'the United Kingdom, anything herein 'contained to the contrary notwithstand'ing.' He was seconded by the gallant member for Nottingham (Sir Ronald Ferguson). The House divided—for the Clause, 47; against it, 127: Majority, 80. The following hon. Members voted with the Minority:—Lord Althorp, Alex. Baring, J. W. Denison, Lord Duncannon, Sir R. Ferguson, W. James, T. F. Kennedy, Hon. G. Lamb, T. B. Lennard, Dr. Lushington, W. L. Maberly, Sir George Phillips, T. S. Rice, Sir Matthew W. Ridley, J. Smith, A. W. Robarts, Alderman Wood, Sir John Wrottesley.—Tellers,
 50 * * † Ibid. xvi. p. 1124 ‡ Ibid. p. 1126. 51
 Mr. Hume  hoped the noble Lord, after the candid statements which he had already made, would pledge himself no further. One great error prevailed throughout this discussion—that of considering the clergy as the Church instead of the congregation. When there was no congregation, no allowance ought to be made. He agreed that this Resolution should pass in its present state, and he was sure, that after the statement made by the noble Lord, the Gentlemen below might place full confidence in him. In making these concessions, however, he
 45
 Mr. Hume  would not object to the "suggestion of the hon. Baronet, as the commencement of a good change. No person justified flogging except as a matter of necessity; and if there was no necessity for it in any one point, it ought to be altered on that point. He would accede to the proposition of the hon. Baronet. The Motion was put, amended according
 68
 Mr. Pease  said, he hoped the hon. member for Knaresborough, when he brought forward this Motion, would be fully prepared to submit to the House some definite plan. There had been a great deal said on this subject, but hitherto he must confess he had not heard any practicable suggestion. Our system of Poor Laws, it was very universally asserted, would not be applicable to Ireland. No other practicable suggestion, however, had been offered; but he trusted that as the hon. member for Knaresborough intended bringing the matter before the House, he would, at the same time, come provided with some practicable plan.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not see how this, if it were true even, could be called a charge against Government, for it appeared to him that if they had been in any way instrumental in raising the Political Unions, or had given those Unions any information on which to act, he thought the Ministers had done a very wise and meritorious thing, for it was owing to the Unions that Reform had been carried. The Motion had only been brought forward for the purpose of showing that, whereas political agitation was stirred up here by responsible persons, the same sort of political agitation, and those who stirred it up, in Ireland, were hunted down and utterly excommunicated.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that the statement had been made to him by a Mr. Rushton, who met Mr. Joseph Parkes (a well-known leader in the Birmingham Political Union), when Mr. Parkes said, "See, I have got several franks, which are directed to members of the Political Unions. They are official franks, and are signed by Earl Grey." Mr. Rushton was ready to give evidence at the Bar of the House to that effect.
 Mr. Mildmay  was aware of the opinion which prevailed amongst persons in the army, that the punishment could not be abolished; he was aware likewise of the progress of a contrary opinion, not only amongst the public, but amongst officers themselves. He was aware, too, that there had been practically a mitigation of the punishment, and that it was not called into practice so frequently as formerly. Under these circumstances, he thought the time had come when the punishment might be abolished in England, though
 53
 Mr. Sheil  advocated the abolition of this dreadful and demoralizing punishment. Some gallant Officers had opposed the abolition; but he did not think that officers of the army were the most competent judges in this matter. No, certainly not. He would not go to a clergyman for his opinion as to Reform in the Church; nor to the West-India planter on the subject of negro emancipation; nor to one of his own profession for an opinion about reforming the lucrative abuses of the law. No more, then, would he be led in his opinion of the propriety of reforming the punishment of the army, by what an officer in the army might say. As to the substitution of punishment, there had been different ones proposed; one hon. Member, who he supposed was a member of the very valuable Zoological Society, seemed to recommend the practice of the Zoological Gardens for the army. He did not agree with that hon. Member in taking a zoological view of the case. The present system was a most degrading and demoralizing one; the British soldiery might be dealt with in the same spirit with the Roman soldiers:—
 58 Facinus est civem Romanum verberari.
 Mr. Robert Grant , having taken charge of the Bill in the absence of his right hon. friend, (Sir J. C. Hobhouse), felt called upon to make one or two observations which should deserve attention for their candour if not for their solidity. No official connexion should induce him to vote against the clause of the hon. member for Middlesex, if he felt the zeal for the abolition of this punishment, and the conviction of its inutility, which unquestionably animated him and many of the opponents of military flogging. Finding, however, that by far the majority of well-informed military men, those who were best able to judge, and on whose judgment he placed the greatest reliance, being the great majority of those who had to administer the law, were in favour of the continuance of the power now exercised, and thinking that their consent and approbation ought to be obtained before so great a change was made, he could not bring himself to vote in favour of the proposition. There was no doubt that in this, as in other respects, the army of Great Britain was in a gradual state of improvement, and he did not think it would be safe to disturb the steady course of that amelioration by a measure of injudicious haste. With every disposition, therefore, to adopt the Amendment, he did not feel sufficient reliance upon his own judgment to warrant him in supporting it by his vote. He rejected the clause with reluctance, almost amounting to pain, but at the same time, with a clear conscience. With respect to the other punishments alluded to by the hon. member for Middlesex, they were never carried into effect except the marking, and that was only done when desertion rendered a conspicuous mark necessary. He admitted that this punishment too was a painful and a degrading one, but he had the consolation of knowing that it was never carried into effect with severity.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  thought, that the explanation which had been given was perfectly satisfactory. He did not see how Gentlemen who gave blank covers could be responsible for their contents; and this appeared to be the present case. He trusted the hon. Baronet would not press his Motion.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, if the debate continued, and took an angry tendency, he should deeply lament any circumstance which had raised such opposition. He would agree to the Resolution, on the understanding that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) would take into his serious consideration—according to the understood meaning of that phrase—the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth.
 Mr. Cobbett  was merely telling the House the way in which they could relieve the distresses of these poor people. There was the sum of 16,000 l l 30
 Mr. Cobbett  regretted the thinness of the House at the time his hon. colleague was reading the petitions which he had just presented to the House. No details,—no authentic documents, had been brought forward in contradiction of the statements made by his hon. friend. He was satisfied of the truth of every thing
 29 d d d d d d d
 Mr. Finn  said, that this measure for the reform of the Church of Ireland—this grand panacea for the evils of that country—would afford relief only to the amount of 30,000 l l 46 l l l d
 Mr. Gillon , rather than impede the progress of the Bill, would withdraw the Amendment of which he had given notice; but, in doing so, he hoped he should not be considered as supporting a Church Establishment either in Ireland or elsewhere. Those who had expressed so much commiseration for the Establishment in Ireland, would do better to commiserate the starving people of that country. When it was considered how much the Protestant Establishment—for he would not dignify it by the name of a Church—had contributed to the over-taxation of the people of Ireland, it was not to be wondered at that they regarded the payment of a clergy from whom they derived no benefit as a monstrous oppression.
 Colonel Gore Langton  said, that if it were wished to preserve a disciplined and effective army, they must retain the power of inflicting corporal punishment. He was strongly averse to inflicting it when it could be avoided, but the power of inflicting it ought to be maintained.
 The Speaker  said, since the alteration in the presentation of petitions, when an hon. Member presented a number of petitions upon a variety of subjects, it was difficult for him to say, on the question that they do lie on the Table, whether any hon. Gentleman confined himself to any of the questions embraced by the petitions. In the mean time, he would only say, that there was no species of distress that could exist but what was alluded to by the hon. Member (Mr. Fielden); therefore the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobbett) was not out of order.
 Sir Francis Burdett  signified his wish to move an Amendment on the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex, he would move "That flogging should not be applied any where under the Mutiny Act, except in cases of open mutiny, thieving, and drunkenness on guard."
 Sir Francis Burdett  stated, that he felt great difficulty in addressing the House upon the subject before them at that moment, because he was in some sort taken unawares; but the great difficulty
 59 "ultimum remedium 60 No, no 61
 Sir John Tyrell  certainly would not press his Motion against what appeared to be the opinion of the House; but he protested against the interpretation which had been put upon his motives. He would only say, that there appeared to him a very great difference between National Political unions and Conservative Clubs.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that before the House came to a determination of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland, they ought to be fully satisfied that they were beneficial. He thought it very probable that the introduction of Poor-laws there would only serve to dry up the present fruitful sources of charity. He would not have Government do anything till the Report of the Commissioners had been carefully examined; then he would have them appoint a Commission composed of men the most suitable that could be found, for the purpose of inquiring into the exact state of the poor of Ireland, and to see how far in their judgment Poor-laws were applicable.
 Sir Robert Peel  had last night made an
 39 l Althorp
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped, that the noble Lord, as a Minister of the Crown, would
 40
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, that he was an enemy to corporal punishment in the army, but thought that the power to inflict it ought not to be abolished. If it were, the army would be disorganized. In certain cases—such as mutiny, and striking an officer, or actual disobedience, which he called mutiny—it ought to be inflicted; and in the case of stealing from his comrades, a man should be subject to be sent out of the country by a Court-martial. Cases often occurred which must be tried and punished summarily. To order, in accordance with the Amendment, one species of punishment abroad and another at home would be extremely unsatisfactory and unjust. The average number of years which a soldier passed in his native land was four out of twenty. It was clear, therefore, that the soldier would still, during four-fifths of his service, be subjected to this punishment. He could not vote with the hon. Member, who, by the Motion, placed him in an awkward situation; and he would not vote against him.
 Sir Rufane Donkin  referred to an experiment he had made in the regiment of which he was Lieutenant Colonel, to abolish corporal punishment, which experiment had failed, for the men began with knocking down the corporals, went on to the Serjeants, and finally threatened the officer on guard. He must, however, say, that when he commanded a brigade in Spain, he had made an appeal to the men on the subject, and for fourteen months no instance of flogging had occurred. It would be a satisfaction to the hon. and learned member for Dublin to be informed, that
 56 par excellence
 Lord Althorp  had been surprised to hear the hon. member for Middlesex read his name as one of those who had formerly voted for the abolition of corporal punishment in the army. He had thought that he had never given a vote against its continuance, although he certainly had never voted in its favour. He had formerly been of opinion, and he retained that opinion still, that the weight of military authority was so great, that it would not be safe entirely to abolish flogging in the army. True, it was a punishment at which the feelings of human nature revolted, but he felt, that he should take upon himself an unjustifiable degree of responsibility if he voted in opposition to the judgment of those who had the greatest experience. Officers were still men, and they possessed the ordinary sympathies of men, and while they possessed them, they were competent to decide on the fitness or unfitness of adhering to the old practice. The clause of the hon. member for Middlesex only applied to Great Britain; flogging was still to be allowed beyond the limits of the empire, and that circumstance would materially and inconveniently increase the repugnance of the soldiers to go upon foreign service. If any process could be suggested, by which the punishment could be safely removed, he was ready to give it his consideration; but, under present circumstances, however painful it was to him to vote against the proposition of the hon. member for
 55
 Lord Althorp  said, as there would be many opportunities to amend the Resolutions in a future stage, he hoped that no delay would then be interposed. The second Resolution being a money Resolution must be again moved in a Committee of the whole House. He believed that there was then an understanding between him and the right hon. Gentleman, that the Amendment should not be moved. He proposed that they should assent to the Resolutions, and that provision should be made hereafter, that those Resolutions should not be carried further than the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in moving the second Resolution, he felt it necessary to make a very few observations. The discussion which took place last night, and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, had a very close application to what he was about to state. The right hon. Gentleman and others objected to the principle of laying the tax on the present incumbents for the purpose of relieving the people of Ireland from the Vestrycess. In making that proposition, some time ago, he observed that he had every reason to believe, from all the inquiries
 37 38 argumentum ad misericordiam
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had already stated all that he could state in reply to the right hon. Baronet, and he thought that what he had stated had satisfied that right hon. Gentleman. It appeared, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken was not satisfied with that statement. Now, he was not prepared to agree in the views of that hon. and learned Member. Supposing that the present incumbents should be relieved from this tax, yet the hon. and learned Gentleman would not be satisfied if the amount of the tax for the purposes intended should be solely drawn from the revenues of the Church, by a deduction from the incomes of individual clergymen who were not as yet incumbents.
 44
 Lord Althorp  said, the argument of the right hon. Gentleman opposite related to the difference between taxing the present and the future incumbents. On that point he did not think the Committee could then come to a decision. The right hon. Gentleman was willing to let the Resolutions pass, provided he (Lord Althorp) admitted a certain qualification which was formerly alluded to—or, if that were declined, provided that he would, as a member of the Government, pledge them not to bring forward a proposition for imposing a tax on the present incumbents. Situated as he was, he could only say, that he was prepared to give the proposition his most serious consideration. That he would say, and more he could not say.
 Lord Althorp  laid on the Table, by command, the Report of the Poor Law Commissioners. The noble Lord stated, that it contained only extracts from the evidence, not the whole of the evidence.
 Lord Althorp  deprecated the tone of the speech of the hon. Gentleman, as calculated to lead to unpleasant discussion. He most certainly, on bringing forward this proposition, did not seek to abolish the Established Church in Ireland. His aim was, merely to reform its abuses. It was unfair of the hon. Gentleman also to assume that this Bill was the only measure of relief intended to be brought forward by his Majesty's Government,
 47
 Lord Althorp  was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman, knowing the peculiar situation in which he was placed, should press him to say more than he had done.
 Lord Althorp  said, it had frequently happened to him to be blamed by each side for yielding to the others; but this he would say, that he always would give way when he saw good reason for so doing. His hon. friend might depend on it that no man in England need be alarmed in consequence of the inclination which he had shown to give way to the exemption of present incumbents, that he would give way on any material principle of the measure to which he felt himself pledged, but, in this instance, he thought he could give way without such interference.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware that it was not usual for Members of the Government to give these official franks. He certainly knew Mr. Parkes well, but he believed that at the period in question he was not a Member of The Birmingham or any other Political Union.
 Lord Althorp  said, that though the hon. Baronet had given notice that he should put a question to him, he had sat down without putting any question, but from the statement made by him last night, he could understand to what the hon. Baronet alluded. He wished to know whether a statement made by the hon. member for Tralee was correct, in saying, that a member of the Government had, during the period they were out of office, given fifty franks to members of the Political Unions, in order to excite those Political Unions to petition for their return to power. When the matter was stated by the hon. Member, he at once declared that he knew nothing of it, and the hon. Member then said, he had no objection, if required, to mention the name of the person to whom he had alluded. The hon. Member accordingly mentioned privately to him, that the member of the Government alluded to was Earl Grey. He, therefore, had mentioned the subject to Earl Grey, who denied positively having franked any letters at all at that time. He had also spoken to Earl Grey's Private Secretary, who stated, that he had no recollection of any thing of the kind. At the same time that the Private Secretary admitted that he might have franked two or three letters, for persons who had requested him to do so, without being aware of their contents. But he denied positively having franked letters for the purposes stated by the hon. Member.
 Lord Althorp  said, he did not believe what had been asserted; but true, or not, he put it to the House whether there were any grounds for going into the matter, and examining witnesses, because if the whole of the circumstances stated were perfectly true, it would be ridiculous to found on them a charge against the Government.
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that he felt all the disadvantage which he had in rising after the hon. Baronet, who always expressed himself with a talent and a fervour which were sure to command a willing audience. On that occasion, too, he had the advantage of speaking on a subject which had for many years engaged the energies of his heart and mind. The hon. Baronet spoke in unison with the best feelings of human nature, and if the House were disposed to consult only such feelings, there could be no doubt as to the conclusion at which they would arrive; and not only would they agree to the motion of tlie hon. member for Middlesex, but they would be eager to abolish all punishment of whatever description. But this was a question not to be disposed of on feeling and sentiment alone, for it involved grave
 62 63 fas est ab hoste doceri 64 65 primâ facie 66 67
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the present was a melancholy example of the effects of bad laws. The trade in Ireland had been annihilated by bad laws, and care should be taken that a similar result did not arise in this country. Before the Union there were no less than eleven sugar-refineries in Dublin, while there was not one at the present moment.
 The Attorney General  said, as there had been no judicial discussion upon the subject, he would not undertake to state positively his opinion; but his impression was, that the view taken by the revising Barrister was
 74
 Mr. Trevor  suggested, that no petition should be received on any day which was not in the list of that day. It was not fair, at the close of a fatiguing day's business to ask the Speaker to sit for an hour or more to receive petitions, which, if time did not admit in the early sitting, should be entered on the list of the next day.
 Mr. Gisbrone  said, that before he adverted to the immediate question under consideration, he begged to call attention to a letter which had been written on the 16th of last month relative to this subject, by Mr. Blake, and which letter was addressed to Lord Molyneux. The writer of that letter contended, that the reduction of the hours of labour would be highly injurious to the working classes, and that the party-coloured evidence taken before Mr. Sadler's Committee was either exaggerated or false; and all that the masters wanted was fair dealing and full inquiry. Mr. Blake described himself as being connected with a factory in which no less than 1,700 persons were employed, and that if the Ten Hours' Bill were carried, they must shut up their doors. Having adverted to this as a preliminary matter he would confine himself strictly to the subject under discussion. He asked the House if they thought that they had obtained such full information upon the hours of labour as to set to at once and legislate upon it? That was the question to be
 92 93 ex-parte 94
 Mr. Wynn  had no expectation that such a debate as the present would have been got up, for, had he been aware that it was intended to enter upon a full discussion of the question, he should have been prepared with more accurate information on the subject than he then possessed. He was willing to admit that much stress had necessarily been laid upon medical opinions but, as a paper had been placed in his hands contradicting in some respects the evidence which had been adduced before the Committee of last year relative to the overworking of children in factories, he should not be doing justice to the individuals from whom it proceeded if he did not state its contents to the House. He would read it just as it had been placed
 95 Names of Jurors before whom the following depositions were taken:—Thomas Williams, John Williams, John Jones, Evan Owen, George Pryse, Evan Thomas, John Jarman, William Bostock, James Morris, Joseph Davies, William Jones, Charles Nichols. Montgomeryshire, to wit.—Informations of witnesses taken and acknowledged at Newtown, in the said county, on Tuesday, the 20th day of November, 1832, before Edward Johnes M. D., one of his Majesty's coroners for the said county, and a Jury there empanelled, to inquire into the death of Jane Jones. Edward Jones, father of the deceased, says the deceased Jane Jones was upwards of eight years old, and was employed in the manufactory of Edward Williams. The time she was daily employed was from twelve to thirteen hours, including meal times, which were half an hour for breakfast, an hour for dinner, and half an hour for tea. Has known children kept at work longer than the above time, when there was a great press of work. They have been kept as much as seventeen hours formerly, but deponent believes that any time now beyond twelve or thirteen hours is entirely voluntary on the part of the children and their parents. His deceased child was brought home from the manufactory on Friday morning last, dreadfully burned—she died on Sunday morning. John Jones is employed in Mr. Edward Williams's manufactory. Was there last Friday morning between eight and nine o'clock; the child, Jane Jones, was warming herself at the fire, the deponent being at his work, with his back turned towards her. Another child cried out that her clothes had taken fire. Deponent immediately ran to her assistance, and endeavoured to extinguish the flames; but before he accomplished this the child was severely burned. He was assisted by other persons in the manufactory; deponent is a stout healthy young man, and has been a manufacturer from his childhood. Evan Thomas.—Was employed in the manufactory at the time Jane Jones's clothes took fire; has heard John Jones's evidence, and believes it to be a correct account of the accident; deponent assisted in taking the child home. John Marpole, surgeon.—Was called in on Friday morning last to attend the deceased; she was severely burned; he attended her from that time to the time of her death which took place on Sunday morning, and which he has no doubt was occasioned by the burns. William Lutener, surgeon.—Has lived in Newtown for the last ten years, and is of course well acquainted with the town. Has been informed, and believes, that children were formerly kept at their work in some of the manufactories thirty-six successive hours, including
 96 The children from Mr. Edward Williams's manufactory, to the amount of seventeen, were at this period of the inquiry brought into the room, and they all appeared to be in perfect health. Charles Nichols, one of the Jury, says that some years ago the children were kept longer to their labour than they are now; believes that at present their working hours do not exceed thirteen including meal time. Richard Newell Davies.—Is a manufacturer and has been so about eighteen or twenty years. There are two sets of children employed those who are employed through the day being relieved by those who are employed through the night. Those employed in the day are very seldom employed in the night, and never but through their own choice and regulation amongst themselves. Employs at present about fifteen children. Thomas Sayer is a manufacturer, and has kept engines about two years and a half. Employs from twenty to twenty-four children. The rule of his manufactory is to work ten hours exclusive of meal-times amounting to about two hours; there is a set of children for the night to relieve those who work through the day. The day children sometimes continue their work through the night, but it is entirely matter of choice, and for the sake of extra wages. Had never heard of children being kept at work for thirty-six hours till within these two or three last days, and believes, according to his experience, the thing to be impossible. The children deponent employs are, generally speaking, very healthy. Those employed by him during the night are some of the stoutest, not under twelve years of age, and from that to sixteen; and they have extra wages. George Green.—Is a manufacturer, and has been so engaged for thirty years; has employed during the last four or five years twenty-four or twenty five children. Formerly he employed more. He has always employed two sets of children, one for day, and one for night work. The day set never continue their work through the night, except by choice. They do so sometimes for the sake of extra wages, and having the following day to themselves. The deponent employs younger children through the night than last witness, but they are never left without a man to look after them. From his own experience, should think it impossible to keep children at work thirty-six hours; has known them occasionally work for twenty-four successive hours, but this has been entirely their own choice. 97 David Davies.—Has been a manufacturer about twenty-five years. Employs now about twelve or fourteen children. He formerly kept more. When the trade is brisk he keeps two sets, one for night, and the other for day work. At ordinary times, having no occasion for night work, only one set is kept. Thirteen hours is the usual time of day work, including from two to three hours for meals. Had never heard of children being kept thirty-six hours at work till these last few days, and from his own experience believes it to be impossible. Edward Williams.—Has been in the manufacturing trade thirty years; never heard of children being kept at work thirty-six hours, and is certain from his own experience it is impossible. Has heard the statement of the four last witnesses, and believes it to be correct. Jeremiah Williams, Jeremiah Steele, and Solomon Jones are manufacturers, and carry on work at the Milford manufactory; never heard, till within the last few days, of children being kept at work, either there or anywhere else, thirty-six hours, and are certain it is impossible. Have heard the evidence of the five last witnesses, and are satisfied it is correct. William Davies.—Has been a manufacturer many years, and has been in the habit of employing children. Had never heard, till within these last few days, of children being employed thirty-six successive hours, and thinks it is impossible. Has heard the evidence of the last seven witnesses and believes it to be correct. Mary Davies.—Has a child employed in Mr. Green's manufactory; her usual time of working is thirteen hours, including meal-time. Has occasionally known her work sixteen hours, including meal-times; but this has been very seldom, and only at busy times. She has also been sometimes without work at all, but has at such times always received her wages. Mr. Green is a good master. The child has very good health. 98
 Mr. Lennard , recollecting that the result of the Committee which was appointed last year was, to prevent the Bill from being carried through in the course of the Session, would not consent to a similar proposition at the present time. He could see no object to be gained by the delay. He could understand why hon. Gentlemen connected with the manufacturing districts should wish to give the master-manufacturers an opportunity of explaining their conduct. But with that the House had nothing to do. Their duty was to consider, whether there were sufficient grounds to warrant them in legislating on the subject. He contended that there was abundant evidence for that purpose; and, further, he agreed with the right hon. member for Montgomeryshire, that if there were not a tittle of evidence, the enactments of the Bill were on the face of them such as every body must agree to. For what were they? That no person under age should be worked harder than the slaves in our colonies. He said harder, for by Act of Parliament
 99
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  gave all credit to Mr. Sadler for the humanity of his motives, but that gentleman had seen only one side of the question. He advocated inquiry, for the sake of the children themselves. He would divide the Commission into three branches, in order that the delay might be as little as possible, and the measure, after due consideration, might be passed in the present Session.
 Mr. Grantley Berkley  said, that as the representative of the western division of Glocestershire, he could not consent, by legislating in haste, and without inquiry upon this subject, to trample upon the character of all the manufacturers of England. He gave his assent most cordially to the Motion then before the House.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, that if the Motion could be so limited, as not to prevent the passing of the Bill, he would consent to the appointment of a Commission, but on no other condition.
 Mr. John Stanley  admitted, that a case was made out for some legislation, but he did not know whether the hours should be nine, ten, or six, and on the ground that this was not decided, he supported the Commission.
 Mr. William Duncombe  protested against these extraordinary vociferations, and cries of "Question!" He presumed that hon. Members had made up their minds on which side to vote, and so considered discussion unnecessary. He was, however, far from entertaining that opinion, and
 109 110 Loud cries of * * 111
 Lord Ashley  said, that from the division which the House had just come to it was clear that some Bill for the regulation of factories must pass this Session. As the House had decided to appoint a Commission, he thought that he had a right to ask Ministers to appoint the Commission immediately, and to place upon it medical men of the highest skill and eminence. If they did not, the country would be of opinion that justice was not done to this question. He was of opinion that a Commission would be of little use, as individuals who were interested might refuse to give evidence before it, and the Commission had no power either to compel the attendance of witnesses or to force them to answer. He thought that the Commission should be armed with power to compel evidence. It was said, that the Commission was to proceed with despatch, in order to enable the House to legislate on the subject during the present Session; but he wished to know how it could travel over the different parts of England and Scotland, and collect evidence in time for that purpose? It had been said that the evidence collected by Mr. Sadler was too general; he was afraid that the evidence collected by this Commission would be too particular. He
 115
 Lord Ashley  must oppose the Motion. The Commission was not necessary, and if it were necessary, a Commission could not elicit that evidence which was desired by the House. He would not then enter into a discussion of the Bill, and he hoped other hon. Members would not, as he should be unable to reply to them. The subject into which it was now proposed to have a Commission to inquire was not unknown, it having been for forty years under discussion. He would give a brief outline of the proceedings which had taken place. In 1796 Drs. Aikin and Perceval, two very eminent medical men, had dwelt strongly on the evils of the factory system, and called the public attention to them. In 1802, the late Sir Robert Peel brought in his Bill to put a restraint on the hours of labour in cotton mills. If hon. Members would look at the provisions of that measure, they would find that its enactments were much the same as those he had drawn up. In 1816, Sir Robert Peel obtained a Committee of that House to inquire into the subject, and a large volume of evidence was printed. In consequence of the inquiries of that Committee, he brought in another Bill, which passed through that House, and was sent up to the Lords. There were two Committees appointed in 1818 and 1819, and two folio volumes of evidence were the result of those inquiries. The Bill, as it was agreed to by the Lords, was different from the Bill which Sir Robert Peel had brought in. He had extended it to all factories—the Bill which was passed was limited to cotton factories only. His Bill restricted the hours of labour to ten—that Bill extended them to twelve. The strongest clauses and penalties he had put in were struck out. In 1825, Sir John Hobhouse introduced his Bill, but it suffered great delay. It was moved in 1825, and the Bill did not pass till the month of October, 1830. Mr. Sadler brought his measure forward in March, 1832, which was referred to a Select Committee, and in August the Bill was stifled. Now that he had brought in a Bill, a Motion was made to appoint a Commission of Inquiry. The public attention, since it had first been directed towards this subject, had never been long turned away. In 1818, the masters had been heard in their defence, When the Bill
 86 87 88 89 90
 Lord John Russell  said, that if he thought that the interests of those connected with, or engaged in, manufactories, could be promoted by the rejection of the Motion before the House, he would willingly oppose it, and go at once to the consideration of the Bill of the noble Lord. He fully admitted, that the subject was one on which the Parliament ought to legislate, and the only question was, how to legislate In the best manner. The hon. member for Lancashire thought that they ought to begin by a Commission. The principal objection to that course was to be found in the Speech of his hon. and learned friend the member for the Tower Hamlets, who asked, were they to allow the present system to go on pending such inquiry? He would say, that there was little danger of any system injurious to the children being continued during such investigation. If ever there was a time when the children stood a chance better than another of being well treated, and not in any degree over-worked, it was when the eyes of Parliament and the country were fixed on our factories. He believed the object of all was, in the result, the same; but as the necessity of legislation was admitted, would it not be better to legislate with all the facts and with the fullest evidence before them, than to make a law on half information which must necessarily be shallow and injurious? Much reliance was placed on the evidence adduced by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sadler) before the Committee; but without detracting from the merits of that Gentleman, he thought that evidence which a Commission would be likely to collect would be more entitled to respect than that which he individually could procure. His noble friend (Lord Althorp), whose absence he regretted, had intimated to him that he should not object to a Commission if the feeling of the House should be for it, but he thought it would be a better course to refer the noble Lord's (Ashley's) Bill to a Select Committee, not with the view of taking evidence, but for the purpose of giving to the whole measure a more full, calm, and deliberate consideration, than it would be likely to get in a Committee of
 112
 Lord Molyneux  seconded the Motion from feelings of justice, and from motives of sound policy and humanity. He was not a member of the Committee, but he had seen much of the evidence given before it, and he did not believe that there was one atom of truth in the imputations which had been thrown out against the cotton manufacturers. He had seen the large mills of the hon. members for Nottinghamshire, Rochdale, and Manchester; and he was sure that the representations given before the Committee could not apply to them. He hoped, therefore, that the House would not, by acting on a false notion of humanity, proceed to pass an Act which would reduce the profits of the manufacturers one sixth. He was sure, if they passed such an Act, while the manufacturers had to struggle against the Corn Laws, and against the tax on raw cotton, that they would bring about the most disastrous consequences. Members were, perhaps, not aware of the nature of the evidence taken before the Committee, and that it was all collected from one quarter. The persons employed in the wool, the flax, and the silk mills were alone examined, and no information had been acquired of the present state of the cotton districts. There were already several Acts on this subject, and he hoped to see those Acts enforced before they made new laws. It would only be just to grant the Commission, and inquire into the condition of the
 85
 Mr. Littleton  said, that though circumstances had occurred to render the experiment which the House had tried not as successful as could have been wished, yet it had undoubtedly enabled the House to get through a greater share of business, particularly in the presentation of petitions. He had opportunities of knowing (as one of the Committee on petitions) the number of petitions presented; and he found that up to the 2nd of April last year, when no election ballots had interfered, the number of petitions presented was 926; but that, by the arrangement made by the right hon. Gentleman, for which the House and the country were so much indebted to him, the number of petitions received by the House up to the same date during the present Session was 2,457. He would make only one suggestion on what had been proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and in the propriety of which they must all concur. He would venture to suggest that the hour for opening the daily list for entering the names of Members who had petitions to present should be at half past eleven, each
 78
 Mr. Robinson  was of opinion that the House was in a condition to legislate at once on this important subject, not only on the evidence taken last year, but on the evidence taken on previous occasions. He was not of opinion the evidence produced had shown that the manufacturers were heartless or unmindful of the health and comfort of their labourers; but the testimony of medical men had convinced him that working for twelve hours a-day was ruinous to the health of the children. And as he saw no limitation on the time of employing them, unless the Legislature imposed it, he was willing at once to legislate on the subject, fie doubted if a limitation of the labour of children would have the effect upon the Poor Laws which was anticipated by hon. Members who had spoken; for working people, when asked for what reason they allowed their children to work for so many hours, uniformly answered, that nothing but distress forced them to commit such cruelty; and when further questioned, they admitted that much of the produce of their labour was spent in medicines and medical attendance. It was but fair, therefore, to suppose that the noble Lord's Bill, in as far as it would have the effect of improving the health of the children, would enable them to work more regularly, and in as far as considerable expense would be saved from the same cause, would not have the effect of increasing the Poor-rates to the extent anticipated by the hon. Members who had spoken for the Motion. He was at a loss to know from what source the hon. member for Lancashire had derived the calculation which went to show that the adoption of the noble Lord's Bill would diminish the productive power of the country by one sixth. He supposed that the hon. Member must have meant the produce of infant labour. He was inclined to go fully as far as the Bill of the noble Lord went; and if the manufacturing and trading superiority of this country over foreign countries was only to be maintained by a continuance of the present system, he would be ready to sacrifice that superiority. He denied, however, that the trade could be
 103
 Mr. George W. Wood  said, he was extremely unwell, and would gladly have refrained from taking any part in the debate, but his sense of duty compelled
 101 102
 Mr. Horatio Ross  said, he thought it necessary to direct the attention of the House to one particular point, which was, that when the question was before a Committee, it was arranged that Mr. Sadler should make out a case for the men on the one hand, and that the masters were to be heard in reply. But, owing to the great mass of evidence brought forward, and the delays which unavoidably took place, Parliament was prorogued before the time for hearing the masters had arrived. He, among other members of the Committee, had left town, under the impression that no Report would be made; but by the management of the Chairman, that mass of evidence had been printed, which had had a very painful effect, and which he considered to be exaggerated in the highest degree. He considered it highly necessary, before the House should legislate on the subject, that they should hear the evidence,
 91
 Mr. Cornish , amidst unceasing cries of question, opposed the Commission, but his observations were rendered inaudible by the uproar.
 Mr. Morrison  concurred in what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for the Tower Hamlets, and had no doubt, that, were it not for the difficulties which now prevailed, this country would be able to supply the world with refined sugars.
 Mr. John Fielden  had been engaged in the cotton trade since he was ten years of age. He was then introduced into his father's mill, and laboured for ten hours a-day. If he thought that this inquiry would elicit truth, he should be the last to vote against it; but he was sure it would not. He was confident that if a Commission went down, the Commissioners would return with evidence that was anything but the truth, or, at least, anything but the whole truth. Preparations would be made to receive them, and the cotton mills would be put into such a condition as they were never in at any other time. He himself had always petitioned the Legislature for a reduction in the time of labour for the children in the factories. On occasion of Sir Robert Peel's Bill, he had petitioned in its favour; he wrote a letter to say, that all that was required to be known was then before the House, and that the attempt to have a Committee to examine evidence was an attempt on the part of the opponents of the measure, to delay the Bill altogether. It had that effect then, and he believed that it would have the same effect now. What evidence could be wanted to show that children of ten years of age were not fit to labour for twelve or fourteen hours a-day? He knew, from his own experience, that they were not capable of undergoing that labour. When he worked
 113
 Mr. Hardy,  as a Representative of a borough dependent upon factories, said, that the Motion for a Commission, if agreed to, would prevent legislation this year, and excite, and properly, the greatest dissatisfaction in the great body of the country. There had been an open Committee, and a full case had been made out for legislation. The system was monstrous, and even at that midnight hour there were many hapless children suffering from the effects of the present system. If a Commission were granted, its inquiries must be partial, or they must extend to a great period of time. He admitted readily that there were many factories in which not only no cruelty was practised, but every attention was paid to the comfort and welfare of children; but he contended that, upon the other hand, it was established beyond the reach of contradiction that
 105
 Mr. Wilks  considered, that the revising Barrister of this district had made a great mistake in his interpretation of the section of the Act. If the opinion of that learned gentleman was a sound one, some of the boldest and most able men in the kingdom would be excluded from the exercise of their undoubted rights. If there was any doubt whatever entertained about the clause, it ought to be instantly corrected.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  presented three Petitions from the Cotton Manufacturers of Preston, Blackburn, and Rochdale, praying for a Commission to inquire into the subject of labour in factories. He would then submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, for the appointing a Commission to obtain further information on the subject of the Factories' Bill before that Bill itself were brought forward. He had had doubts, whether he should bring the subject forward this evening, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade being absent; but by the advice of several competent and anxious Members, he should, notwithstanding the absence of that hon. Gentleman, proceed with his Motion; and then he should have the satisfaction of having done his duty. His only object in the Motion was, to do an act of justice. He regretted he had not been able to bring it forward at an earlier period of the Session, as he had intended; the inquiry then would have proceeded so far by this time, that on the House commencing its sittings
 80 81 82 83 84
 Mr. Wilson Patten,  in reply, said, that he would meet the views of the hon. Gentleman opposite if he altered his Motion to the following:—" That an Address be presented to his Majesty, requesting his Majesty to appoint a Commission to proceed with the utmost despatch to collect evidence in the manufacturing districts as to the employment of children in factories; and as to the propriety of curtailing the hours of labour, so as to enable the House to legislate upon the subject during the present Session."
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that he, like the right hon. Member, had attended most carefully to the whole of the debate, and he had come to a decidedly different conclusion to that expressed by the right hon. Member as to the weight to be attached to the arguments which had been adduced. He regretted to hear the speech of the right hon. Member. It would be regarded by anxious thousands as a declaration of the intentions of Government to defeat or to retard the Bill of the noble Lord. It could be regarded in no other light; for no one could fail to remark that the arguments used by the right hon. Member were directed against the Bill itself of the noble Lord quite as much as they were to the question then more properly before the House. He therefore could not but infer, that it was the Bill of the noble Lord that was the real mark of objection, and that the proposed Commission was merely a means of arriving at the desired end. Why, what was the object for which the Commission was required? It was said that by the evidence before the Committee last Session the character of the manufacturers had been unjustly prejudiced. Now, surely that prejudice, if it had existed, must be removed by the debate of that night. It was admitted upon all hands that there were many factories well managed; but it must also be admitted that in many factories there were gross abuses. They were told, that in the evidence taken before the Committee, there were many exaggerations. Be it so. Make what allowance it was thought fit for
 108
 Mr. Bernal , pursuant to the notice he gave yesterday, rose to move, that the issuing of the Speaker's warrant to the Clerk of the Crown for making out a new writ for the election of two burgesses for the Borough of Hertford, in the room of Lords Ingestrie and Mahon, whose election was declared void, be suspended; but before he put his Motion into the Speaker's hands, he would move that the Special Report of the Hertford Election Committee be read.
 Mr. Bernal  said, he would not enter into any argument on the question, but would found his Motion on the precedent established in the case of the borough of Liverpool, in which, when a similar Special Report was made, the House had suspended the issuing of the Speaker's warrant. The hon. Member moved, that the issuing of the Speaker's warrant be suspended till the 22nd of April.—Ordered.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the only question was, whether the House was in a condition to legislate; and when he looked to the quantity and variety of the evidence which was before them, he could not doubt that the House possessed sufficient information. He thought that they had complete evidence to prove what was necessary to do in this matter; and after all the arguments which he had heard on both sides of the question, he had come to the conclusion that the hon. Member's Motion was not Only unnecessary, but, from the delay it would occasion, decidedly injurious. If the evidence of the medical gentlemen, and the evidence taken before the Committee of last year, and on previous occasions, gave a true view of the state of the children in the manufacturing districts, what would the effect of the delay be? A renewal and continuance of the same miseries to an indefinite period till those Commissioners chose to give in their Report. But what valid evidence could be obtained in the face of the fact stated by Dr. Bailey and the other medical men who were examined, that no infant could labour for twelve hours in a manufactory without injury to health? And why take evidence by means of Commissioners? He did not know what confidence the House might place in evidence taken by Commissioners, but he could say, that he would place none. He knew that Sir John Hobhouse had wished to go further in his Bill than he had gone, and that it was only from a wish to have the co-operation of the manufacturers, in order to ensure a certain  quantum
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he had to apologise for the absence of his noble friend (Lord Althorp) and his right hon. friend the Vice-President of the Board of Trade. They had both been anxious to attend in their places, but were compelled by indisposition to be absent. He had been deputed by his noble friend to learn, as well as he was able, the prevailing opinion of the House as to the course that was desirable to be pursued. Undoubtedly, his noble friend was not without an opinion of his own; but the Government were anxious, upon so important a matter, to hear the opinions and the arguments of those hon. Members who were largely engaged in manufactures, and, consequently, intimately acquainted with the subject. He had listened most attentively to the whole of the debate; and he was bound to declare that, in his opinion, the weight of argument was decidedly in favour of the issuing of a Commission. And he took upon himself to say, the best and the readiest way to attain the truth was by the means of a Commission. If the proposition had been for reviving the Committee of last year he should have
 106 107
 Mr. Spring Rice  concurred in the suggestion of his hon. friend, the member for Staffordshire, that half past eleven o'clock would be quite time enough to open the list of the day for the insertion of the names of Members who had petitions to present that day. As the right hon. gentleman in the Chair had not repined on account of the additional labour thus heaped on him by the new regulations, the House should take care that it was not pressed
 79
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the disclaimer of the noble Lord was perfectly unnecessary. He might be satisfied that the utmost care would be taken by Government in the selection of the Commissioners, for it would be worse than folly to appoint Commissioners whose characters were not far beyond all impeachment. It ought, however, to be observed, that this appointment of a Commission was not upon the motion of the Government, but on that of an individual wholly unconnected with Government. If information were necessary on this subject, it could be rendered valuable only by having it procured by well-qualified persons, and, therefore, Ministers had the strongest interest in appointing competent men. He did not think that any persons would refuse to answer questions put to them by the Commissioners; but if any person did refuse there could be no doubt that the House would immediately pass a short Bill to compel them to answer, and even upon oath, if required. As soon as the Commissioners were appointed, the terms of the Commission, and the names of the parties appointed, should be laid before the House, and the noble Lord would then have the opportunity of objecting to the Commission and Commissioners, if he thought proper.
 Mr. Ewart  had been requested to support the petition. The existing state of the law produced a serious effect, both on the imports and exports of the country, and was severely felt by the merchants of Liverpool and elsewhere. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had the other night said, that the best way of giving relief to the people was to afford them employment; and he (Mr. Ewart) was satisfied, no branch of manufactures afforded such an opportunity of giving employment as the sugar-refining trade. If the same restrictions had been applied to foreign cotton as now existed on sugars, where, he would ask, would have been the cotton trade of Lancashire? And how much less would have been the power and consideration of this country over the commerce of the world? This was really a national, and not merely a commercial question, and one of interest, not solely to the petitioners, but to the country at large.
 The Speaker  said, that there were occasions when a departure from the general rule in this respect would be not only justifiable but necessary; for instance, in the case of a bill in progress through the House, to which objections existed on the part of many individuals, if time had not permitted in the early sitting, up to 3 o'clock, for receiving all petitions against it, it would be but fair that an opportunity should be given for receiving such petitions at the close of the evening sitting. Having said this, he would state, further, his obligations to Gentlemen who had offered petitions at the close of the sitting, that none had been offered without his having been previously consulted by the Gentlemen to whom they had been confided, as to whether it would be convenient to him to sit and receive them, and that nine-tenths of such petitions related to business afloat in the House. He therefore felt it his duty to express to the House generally, and to every hon. Member individually, his great obligations for their attention on all occasions to his personal convenience.
 The Speaker  was anxious, before the House proceeded to the public business of the day, to call its attention for a few moments to the result of the experiment which had been made in an early period of the Session, and which was continued to the present time, for the despatch of private business, and the presentation of petitions. The House was aware of the important alteration that had been made in its hours of sitting, and that, by that arrangement, the House had, on the days when election business did not interfere, sat from twelve to three. The object of this early sitting was to despatch private business, to receive returns made to orders of the House, and most especially to receive petitions. The House having set apart that time for these purposes, resolved to meet for the despatch of the public business of the day at 5 o'clock. One effect of this regulation had been, that it enabled them to proceed at once at 5 o'clock to the public business. So far the experiment had succeeded; but he need hardly say, that as far as related to the presenting petitions it had failed of producing the intended effect, and of meeting the convenience of the House. The proposition was, that the House, on its meeting at twelve each day, should begin where it had left off at three on the day preceding. This had made it necessary to have a book in which the names of Members having petitions to present were entered, and that book had not been long on the Table before it had the names of between 500 and 600 Members, who were to be called on in the order in which they stood. The result was, that no Member knew when his name might be called on, and thus many Members attended from day to day, without being able to present the petitions which had been committed to them. Thus, for example, no Gentleman who saw the books could anticipate what had actually taken place this day—that he should have gone through the whole book. Of course those whose names were far down in the book, not expecting that their names would have been called, were not in attendance, and the result was, that an erroneous impression might go forth—that hon. Members to whose care petitions had been confided were inattentive to their duty in not
 77
 The Speaker  said, that whatever time would best meet the convenience of the House would answer the object he had in view, in naming a later hour than usual, which was to give equal advantage to those who resided at a distance and to those who were near the House. If half an hour should be found sufficient to fill the daily list, it would be so much the better, for the shortest time in which it could be done would be best and fairest for all.
 The Solicitor General  concurred entirely with what had fallen from his learned friend the Attorney General, that the petitioners were clearly residents within the meaning of the Reform Act. They had houses in the town—they were residents in the place—they paid taxes—and, in short, did every thing which entitled them to the enjoyment of the elective franchise. He felt no doubt in his own mind, that the revising Barrister had fallen into a mistake, which he sincerely hoped and trusted other revising Barristers would not follow.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  said, that from Wiltshire, Glocestershire, and Somersetshire, no witnesses whatever had been examined, and yet the manufactories in those counties were to be subject to the proposed regulations. A Clause in the Bill, for example, prohibited labour after eight o'clock in the evening, and in some water mills they only began to work at twelve or two o'clock, which would prevent their labouring more than six hours.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  contended that it was but just to the manufacturers to institute a counter-inquiry, in order that the real state of the children employed in the cotton trade might be ascertained. If the contemplated Bill were ever adopted, he hoped it would be accompanied by other measures, to protect the interests of the owners of machinery, in the present depressed state of the cotton trade. It was well known that the cotton-trade was in such a state that the profits were nearly annihilated; and if the noble Lord's Bill passed, he was sure that they would soon hear of that state of things which the hon. member for Birmingham had described. When he heard the manufacturers called murderers, and charged with infanticide—when their factories were termed bastiles, and when there was a system of agitation and excitement on this subject out of the House, great care should be taken to legislate with calmness. He did not ask inquiry for the sake of delay, but because he thought it right in that House to be quite sure of their ground before passing an onerous, and he was afraid a ruinous, enactment.
 Sir Robert Inglis  suggested to Ministers the propriety of making the Commission not only able and intelligent, but also numerous, in order that it might institute inquiries in different places at the same time.
 Mr. Clay  presented a petition from the persons connected with the sugar-refining trade, in the city of London, signed by every person in the trade, with one or two exceptions, and whose signatures represented a capital of between 2,000,000 l l 75
 Mr Hutt  presented a petition, to which he would venture to call the particular attention of the House. The petition was signed by almost every sailor of the port of Hull, and complained of a very serious grievance which appeared to be put upon them by the thirty-second section of the Reform Bill—a grievance which was actually inflicted during the last election. The thirty-second section of the Reform Act required, that every burgess and householder shall be in residence for six months previous to the last day of July, in the borough for which he claims to vote. The sailors of Hull were very liable to be absent at this period, being engaged in their hard and honourable vocation. With respect to those sailors engaged in the Greenland fishery, as they depart from home during the month of March, and return generally during the month of October, if the interpretation which had been given by the revising Barrister who visited Hull were the true meaning of the Bill, they would be permanently disfranchised; but this surely never could be the intention of the Bill. It never could have been designed that this honest and meritorious class of the community should, without fault imputed, or mischief apprehended, be so rashly stripped of their political rights. He should put it to the Attorney General to say, whether this was the object of the thirty-second section? For, if so, he should feel it his duty to bring the subject before the House in a very different form. For his own part, he believed, that the revising Barrister had, in this instance, been betrayed into an error.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he rose merely to say, that he had not been inattentive to the prayer of the petition, and not with any expectation of being able to state anything satisfactory to the hon. Gentlemen who had supported the petition. He was aware that, under the present regulations the refiners were only supplied with a sufficient
 76
 Lord Morpeth  said, the question divided itself into two heads—first, the claim for the inquiry made by the manufacturers; and next, supposing that claim to be admitted, whether the general case should outride the particular one. What were the facts of the case? The Committee was forced on Mr. Sadler much against his will; he consented to it only because he
 100
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he saw no person present connected with the Irish Government; but he must, notwithstanding, request some information with respect to the Proclamations lately issued by the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland under the Bill which deprived that country of the Constitution. It had been decidedly intimated on the passing of that Bill, that there was no disposition to carry it into effect. It was indeed expressly said, that it never would be carried into effect, except under the pressure of absolute necessity. In spite of this assurance, a most wanton and outrageous act had been committed under the Bill, which sufficiently showed the truth of what he had often said, that despotic power could not be intrusted in the hands of any man. Possession was itself a temptation to abuse it. The Bill had hardly arrived in Ireland before the county of Kilkenny was put out of the pale of the law. Part of that county was, he acknowledged, in a disturbed state; but there was a considerable part of it perfectly tranquil; yet this was punished indiscriminately with the rest. But what he particularly wished to impress upon the House was, that the county of the city of Kilkenny had also been put under the operation of the Act, although there was not the slightest appearance of insubordination in that city to justify it; for, if he was rightly informed, the offences committed there within the last twelve months amounted only to five, the most serious of which was a petty larceny case. One reason assigned for this wanton outrage was that since the county of Kilkenny was in so disturbed a state as to require proclamation, they must also extend the proclamation to the city, or else the inhabitants of the proclaimed districts would nullify the Proclamation by going into the city. This was a most ridiculously frivolous pretext; they must, on this principle, proclaim the whole country at once. The real state of the case was, that it was considered much more convenient for the members of the military tribunals to remain comfortably in their hotels in the city, than to venture out here and there in the really disturbed parts of the country. This was the real reason why a city which had committed no offence, and which contained a population of 24,000 souls, had been put out of the pale of the law. The hon. Member concluded by moving, that there be laid before the
 118
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had given the subject his best attention, having once supposed, like his hon. friend, that a considerable saving might be made; but he found that the business was now carried on at the cheapest rate possible. The bankers would not undertake to send the money unless a deposit was placed in their hands, and a commission given them. If, indeed, the Bank of England had any branch banks at the outports, the business might have been easily arranged. In the Act establishing the branch banks of the Bank of England, a clause was inserted forbidding these branches from making any payments, except where the branch was actually established. There was a branch at Exeter, but there was none either at Portsmouth or Plymouth; and therefore it was impossible to make an arrangement such as he had contemplated.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson : Both notes and gold were sent.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would not like to trust the bankers.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that none but practical men could be good Judges, and it would be obvious that they could not be selected from men of small practice. With respect to the marshalling of causes hitherto, if one Court was overburthened, they should be transferred to others. With respect to plaintiffs choosing their own Court, that was at least a hardship upon all the defendants. He remembered a Court in Dublin, before fees were abolished, in which there was a considerable fee upon the record; and in that Court seventy-three plaintiffs out of seventy-four gained their causes. Of course, they all carried their causes to that Court. If any newspaper in Dublin had mentioned that circumstance at the time, it would have been prosecuted. He hoped the time was not far distant when local Courts would be established, not confined to a paltry 20 l 122
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  could not concur in the remarks made by the hon. member for Colchester, that eminent men were induced to look for high situations on the Bench merely from pecuniary motives. He did not see that they deserved such a stigma, when it was well known that many of them were making, at the Bar, double the sum that was paid as salary to a Judge. Mercenary men were not likely to do so. They could not expect to get the ablest men for Judges, if they did not give at least as high salaries as those men would make by following their profession at the Bar.
 Captain Dundas  declared, on the authority of Sir Francis Collier, who commanded the  Vernon
 Captain Dundas  observed, that the attention of the House had been for many weeks called to the misery of the people of Ireland. That misery was at least equalled, if not exceeded, by the misery of the inhabitants of a district not four miles from the metropolis; he meant Deptford; where, in consequence of the number of artificers who had been discharged from the King's yard, the Poor rates had been raised to 18 s
 Captain D. Dundas  was surprised at the remark just made by the hon. member for Middlesex. In his opinion, the recommendation of the hon. Member was anything but judicious; and there was no one, he was sure, in that House, who had the slightest acquaintance with the naval service, who would not be ready to testify to the fact, that sufficient justice was not done to the naval service. There were many officers of the navy who had served thirty and forty years, who had not above 3 s d
 Mr. Lamb , in moving the second reading of the Bill, stated, that its principle object was to consolidate former Acts relating to the Metropolitan Police. There were some alterations, however, introduced into this measure, which it was his duty shortly to advert to. In the new arrangement which was proposed, economy was an object of much consideration, and, with a view to diminish expense, it was thought that one of the Metropolitan Police-offices might be got rid of. It was supposed that the Whitechapel-office could be spared with the least inconvenience, and therefore a clause had been introduced into the Bill for doing away with that office. He understood, however, that the abolition of the office had excited some discontent amongst persons residing in that part of the metropolis, and as his Majesty's Government had no other object but to render the police establishment as efficient as possible at the least possible expense, if it was felt that the abolition of the Whitechapel-office would produce any serious public inconvenience, he had no disposition to press it. It was proposed to have one Magistrate at each of the Police-offices, but in effecting that arrangement some difficulties had presented themselves. In the first place, it was found that in some cases it was necessary, under Acts of Parliament, that convictions should be made by two Magistrates. Upon looking into the law, however, he found that the principle had been so little attended to, that he could see no objection to the introduction of a clause empowering one Police Magistrate to
 134
 Mr. Lamb  had no objection to have a Committee appointed, but he thought that, as its inquiries would take up a long time, it would be better to defer it for the present Session. At any rate, he hoped that the present Bill would be suffered to pass before the Committee was appointed.
 Mr. Lamb  said, whether that office was to be dispensed with or not, would be determined afterwards.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  also objected to the system upon which the navy was governed, and could say, from his own knowledge, that the complaints of the gallant Admiral were well founded. He was sorry to see an indisposition in the Government to relieve the country of the half-pay paid to officers who had rendered no services, and performed no duties whatever. Promotion was given entirely to young men of aristocratic families.
 Mr. Hawes  would trust entirely to the hon. Member's promise of having a Committee appointed to inquire into the subject, and hoped that some fresh measures of police would be founded on the Report made by that Committee. He would not, therefore, oppose the second reading of the present Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  was glad to see, that the design of the Bill was to introduce economy into the police system. He would not object to the second reading of the Bill if the hon. Member would consent to have a Committee appointed to consider the institution of the police generally.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought, good Judges might be got without such very large emoluments. It would be, in his opinion, an improvement, if there was not so great a difference as at present, between the salaries of the puisne Judges and of the Chiefs, which made all the clever men avoid accepting the former, in the hope of getting the latter.
 Mr. Harvey  did not know how it might be in the Court of King's Bench, but he believed that there were other Judges not fully employed. He had hoped that one of the improvements to be introduced by that Commission over which the hon. and learned Solicitor General so long presided, would have been to marshal the different causes that were set down for trial before the different Courts. For instance, the 500 or 600 causes that were waiting to be heard in the Court of King's Bench might be spread over the Court of Exchequer and the Court of Common Pleas. At present, while some of these cases must wait a year to be tried, some of the Judges were idle. He thought that an officer should have been appointed whose business it should have been to marshal these cases before the different Courts. The Judges were all equally good, and he could not conceive why the cases should not be sent to them indiscriminately. As to the salaries of the Judges the question was not whether the Judges were paid as much or more than other men, or more than formerly, but whether good Judges could not be got for less than 8,000 l
 Mr. George Frederick Young  wished to know if the Lambeth-street Office was to remain or not? If it was not, he had a few observations to make in opposition to the present Bill.
 Mr. B. Carter  stated, that he had a petition in his possession from a number of the inhabitants of Portsmouth, complaining of the hardships to which the artificers of Portsmouth Dock-yard had been subjected, by the discharge of a great many hands, by the degradation of many who had acquired a certain rank in the yard to an inferior rank, and, above all, by the employment of convicts in the yard. He was happy to hear that his Majesty's Government intended to correct the last-mentioned evil; and he trusted that the intention would be carried into effect with as little delay as possible; for nothing could be more irksome to honest and free men, than to be associated in labours with persons of so different a description.
 Mr. Hume  said, they should be kept up, not on the ground of usage, but for the purpose of use. Why had they applied schedules A and B to certain boroughs? Because they did not want them. Yet usage might, on the same principle, have shielded those boroughs, as now it was advanced to uphold these yachts. He was sorry to hear such reasons adduced for maintaining what the country did not require.
 Mr. Hume  said, then there were, in fact, still four yachts. He freely admitted the propriety of placing two at the disposal of his Majesty, but the other two should, in his opinion, be put down.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the Captains-Superintendants of the Dock-yards of Pembroke and Woolwich receiving pay in addition to their pay as captains of yachts.
 Mr. Hume  was desirous of knowing; explicitly whether Captain Symonds's plan had been successful or not? He understood that the  Vernon
 Mr. Hume  thought, that if the work was to be finished, the sooner it was finished the better; for that would be sounder economy than leaving it uncompleted for a long period. If it could be finished better with solid masonry than in any other manner, he should not oppose its being so finished; but he thought it should be done without further delay. He wished to know on what principle it was, that Deptford Dock-yard was to be put down, and new Dock-yards at Sheerness and Pembroke were to be built? He did not understand this mode of proceeding. Sheerness was at a considerable distance from the metropolis, and in an exposed place, and he wished to know why the public money was to be expended in the erection of a Dock-yard there?
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the House had already decided upon the amount of men to be employed, which involved the general question of reduction, he would not
 123
 Mr. Hume  thought that this was the opportunity he ought to lake to bring the case of the students of naval architecture before the House. The returns, however, which he had moved for had been so recently completed, that they were not yet printed. He therefore was not able to lay the case of the young men, who he thought had been very hardly treated, fully before the House. He would only say, that while other nations were diligently
 125
 Mr. Hume  thought, with the large balance which the Government had in the hands of the Bank of England, means might be found to pay the seamen without the expense of remitting the money. He supposed, if 20,000 l
 Mr. Hume  wished to know how the business was done now? Were notes or gold sent down to pay the seamen?
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether the expense of sending money to the outports could not be saved? He saw, in the estimate, a charge of 275 l l 124
 Mr. Hume  objected, on the ground that gross extravagance was committed in that department of the public service in consequence of no care being taken to place persons enjoying half-pay upon full pay
 130
 Mr. Hume  said, as there were strong rumours of very considerable changes in the judicial department, in consequence of some retirements being about to take place, and as some other changes would, of course, follow, he was anxious to remind the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) that the salaries of the Judges had for the last thirty years, been increased to a very enormous extent. When any new appointment took place, he hoped that Government would show that they intended seriously to grant some relief to the country, overburthened by heavy taxation.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord, whether at present the number of Judges was not too great? That number had been increased some time ago because the Judges had too much business to perform, and he understood that at present there was not sufficient employment for the original number of Judges?
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he did not know by how much the salary of the Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench had been reduced, but it ought to have been reduced to the standard which prevailed before 1795, for it had been raised, in consequence of the depreciation which had subsequently taken place in the currency. It was then 4,500 l l l l 119 l
 Admiral Codrington  said, this was a subject to which he had paid great attention, and he must say, that the most rank injustice was dealt out to all classes of half-pay officers in the navy. There was no other class in the country so badly provided for. The allowance which was given to pursers was a disgrace to the country. They were a body of men who filled most arduous situations, and were sometimes necessarily intrusted with the most important secrets; yet the allowance, after thirty years' service, was only 3 s d l 131 l l l l s s s d 132 l s d s d s d s d s s s
 Sir James Graham  would challenge the closest investigation into the promotions of the navy, since he had had the honour of being placed at the head of the department. He decidedly agreed with the gallant Admiral, that promotions must be held out as a stimulus to the profession, and that they were at once the cheapest and most honourable mode of procuring and rewarding services. Government, however, was placed between a cross-fire, for, whilst the hon. member for Middlesex attacked it for want of economy, another party assailed it for carrying economy too far, in withholding promotions and rewards from the naval service. He would say, that so far from the Admiralty having any objection to naval officers entering the merchant service, the fact of a person having go served would rather be considered
 133 l
 Sir James Graham  said, that if the question was now for the first time to be discussed, whether or not there should be a Dock-yard at Sheerness, he might possibly be found to agree with the hon. member opposite; but as 2,000,000 l
 Sir James Graham  observed, that the predecessors of the present Ministers had fixed upon 6,000 as the number to which the artificers in the various Dock-yards might be reduced. After having been three years in office, his Majesty's present Government had felt it their painful duty to make this, almost the last saving in the way of reduction, of which the naval department was capable; and had thought that the time had arrived when they might discharge 500 artificers, reducing the number from 6,500 to 6,000. It should be considered, however, that the sum saved, namely 37,000 l 128
 Sir James Graham  said, that he wished to call the attention of the Committee to this vote, the decision of which would, in fact, involve the question what should be the future outlay of the Breakwater at Plymouth. The late Sir John Rennie had recommended that the work should be finished with solid masonry; that recommendation was adopted by his son, and the Admiralty, after having obtained every possible information on the matter, supported the recommendation. The last winter had afforded a severe trial of the efficiency of the work, and he was happy to say, that the result was perfectly satisfactory. He had received a letter upon the subject, and should beg leave to read a few lines to the House. The writer stated, that although it had blown a hurricane during the past week, such as had never been equalled since the disastrous gale of November, 1824, all the vessels in the Sound had ridden it out in safety, and the work itself had suffered very little damage. Only a few stones had been thrown over to the Northern side. All that part of it which had been finished in solid masonry was left uninjured, and the few stones which had been swept off were removed from that part which had not
 129 l l
 Sir James Graham  answered, that as far as the Board of Admiralty was advised upon the subject, the superiority of the  Vernon
 Sir James Graham  said, if there was one thing more than another for which he might take credit, it was his endeavour to reduce the expenditure for the royal yachts. One of these was constantly at Pembroke, the other at Woolwich, and the captains of each did full and active duty as Superintendants of those yards, [Mr.  Hume:
 Sir James Graham  said, that, from the time of William 3rd. to the present day, there had never been less than four royal yachts. George 3rd., when at Weymouth, had always three in immediate attendance upon him. He (Sir J.) thought it right to keep up the number of four, that the other two might be ready if they were ever wanted.
 Sir James Graham  said, that after the best information they could obtain, the Board of Admiralty thought the most proper course to pursue was to appoint men who united scientific knowledge with practical experience. He could assure the hon. Member, that measures would be taken to give the public all the information which might be laid before the Board of Naval Architecture.
 Sir James Graham  said, as far as the number of men were concerned, a large majority of the House had already declared it necessary. The amount of the forces must always be guided by the circumstances in which the country was placed. He hoped that next year the necessity for keeping up so large a force would not exist. The hon. Member was exceedingly desirous to guard Government against an increase of expenditure; but he would beg to remind that hon. Member, that, excluding the half-pay, and those items over which his Majesty's Government had no control, there had been a decrease in the last two years of not less than thirty per cent in the expense of the effective service, and that service, he believed, was more efficient than before.
 Sir James Graham , in proposing the first vote for the expense of the Admiralty, said, that he felt great pleasure in announcing to the House, that, notwithstanding the reduction of 7,000 l l l l l
 The Solicitor General  said, with regard to what had fallen from the hon. member for Colchester, as to sending causes by rotation to the three Courts of common law in Westminster-hall, that that suggestion had certainly been maturely and deliberately weighed by the Commissioners for inquiring into the state of the law. Though it was an extremely plausible one, there were a great many strong objections to it. The Judges were no doubt all
 121 remanets
 The Solicitor General  begged to say, in answer to the question of the hon. Member, that he could assure him as far as regarded the Court to which he (the Solicitor General) belonged, that there was sufficient work there for all the Judges in it; and that, in fact, he believed there was no portion of the labouring classes in London—such as porters, and other hardworking individuals—so severely worked as were the Judges of that Court. He believed, that the other Judges in Westminster-hall were also completely employed, though he could not speak so positively upon that point, as he did not practise in their Courts. With regard to what the hon. Member opposite had said as to the salaries of the Judges, he could assure him, that the office of Chief Justice of the King's Bench was not near so valuable now as it was forty or fifty years ago. That office had been since stripped (he was ready to admit most properly stripped) of such a quantity of valuable patronage—the office of chief clerk, for instance, amongst others—that it was by no means so valuable now as it had been formerly. Under such circumstances an adequate salary must be attached to the office. It would have been much better for the present Chief Justice of the King's Bench to have accepted the office
 120
 Lord Althorp  stated, that, in 1795, the Judges were in possession of saleable patronage, attached to their office, on which they now no longer had any claim; and it was in remuneration for their loss of that patronage that their salaries had been raised. It should be remembered, that unless the Government paid well, it could not command the services of the ablest lawyers.
 Lord Althorp  said, the present Lord Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench had accepted that appointment upon a considerable reduction of the salary, which was a sufficient proof that the Government had turned its attention to the subject. He was not, however, prepared to give a specific answer to the question of the hon. Member, nor could he see, that the subject was so pressing as to call upon him to bring it particularly forward that night.
 Lord Althorp  begged to suggest to the hon. Member the expediency of withdrawing his Motion till the right hon. the Secretary for Ireland took his seat tomorrow. He fully concurred in the observation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the House, having granted these extraordinary powers to the Government, was bound to keep a jealous eye over the exercise of them.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  supported the Motion. The present system was only fitted to entrap a Jury into a verdict of guilty. He had been a member of that honourable House when Mr. Davenport had introduced his Bill on the subject, and had then supported his propositions. As to the establishment of a separate jurisdiction for the juvenile offenders, he thought the great evil of it would be, that a lighter punishment being by law awarded to persons under a certain age, experienced thieves would, in place of committing depredations themselves, employ those young persons, to the great injury of public virtue. There was a great difference between juvenile offenders in large towns, such as London, and in the country districts; and he thought it would be advisable to give Magistrates the power of summary conviction with regard to boys who should be brought before them in the country. He was ready to admit, as he had already said, that the case was different in towns. The great object was to guard against the contamination of these young offenders in gaol; and he thought that might be effected.
 Mr. Lloyd  said, that in no case of misdemeanor, much less in a case of felony, should a Magistrate have the power of summarily convicting without the intervention of a Jury. The honest and well-founded prejudices of the people of England would not endure a contrary practice.
 154
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was sorry to take up the time of the House, but every alteration whatever in the law was, in his opinion, of the greatest importance. He could not, therefore, allow the subject to pass without protesting against the deprivation of the juvenile offenders of the benefit of Trial by Jury. He was friendly to the principle of inquiring into the previous character of prisoners. Nothing could be of more importance than to impress upon persons the idea that character constituted a species of castle. In his opinion, many of the proceedings on criminal trials were the most farcical that could easily be imagined. Nothing, for instance, could be more ridiculous than the scruples which were made about allowing a prisoner to convict himself. The prisoner, in his opinion, ought to be called upon to explain any circumstance which might appear by the evidence to be of an equivocal nature. Lord Mansfield deserved great credit for the good sense of his remarks upon the subject. He hoped he should live to see the time when every criminal should be interrogated as to the particulars of the transaction respecting which he was accused. He would not advocate the subjecting of a prisoner to any duress, to any imprisonment, to any torture, in order to extort a confession from him; nor would be desire that a prisoner should, as in a neighbouring country, be subjected to all the ingenious cross-questioning on the part of the Judge, which was usual in a case conducted by counsel; but nothing could be more preposterous than the caution frequently given from the Bench to a prisoner, not to criminate himself. Instead of using every method in order to reach the real facts of the case, it was not unusual, upon a prisoner pleading guilty, for the Judge to point out to him the favourable point in the evidence, and to advise the prisoner to withdraw his plea, and take the chances of a trial. He had known that caution given in the case of a very bad murder. The criminal took the Judge's advice, and was successful in obtaining a favourable verdict; but he died
 155
 Mr. Lennard , in rising to submit his promised Motion, said, that when his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, some weeks ago, presented the London petition for the improvement of the criminal code, they were reminded, and very properly, of the great improvement which had already been made in it. Although he fully admitted that, yet he thought it could not be denied that much still remained to be done before the criminal code of laws could be said to be in a satisfactory state. The more the public were accustomed to consider the subject of criminal jurisprudence, the more anxious did it become to remove all traces of that sanguinary character which were impressed on it in those times when, in the words of Mirabeau, "blood, and nothing but blood, and pounds of flesh," were required for every offence. He wished the Government had leisure to undertake an entire revision and reform in the criminal code. It seemed to him that such a work could be best done by the Government. But there were many Gentlemen in that House whose opinions were entitled to great authority who entertained a different opinion, and who thought that the necessary improvements in our code were best made by the exertions of individual Members bringing forward motions for such Amendments as to themselves might seem most convenient. He had therefore determined to bring under the consideration of the House the state of the law in regard to two offences, respecting which he believed there could be
 157 158 159 160 161 s s d s l s s s 162 163 164
 Mr. Wynn  concurred in the observations of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and was rather surprised that they had not led the hon. and learned Gentleman to propose a Committee on the subject. For his own part, he had, for the last twenty years, been actively and earnestly engaged in endeavouring to bring about a reform in the penal laws of this country, both in and out of office. He had been a member of the different Committees obtained by Sir Samuel Romilly and Sir James Mackintosh, and had thoroughly investigated the various grounds upon which a mitigation of our penal code was sought for by both those great men. He had always thought that a different construction ought to be put upon the law relating to offences which might, with due caution, be prevented, such as robberies from the person, and others of a different nature. For instance, every person who fastened up his house in order to proceed about his lawful and necessary occupations was entitled, from the laws of his country, to the highest protection which those laws could bestow, in order that the property so left should remain uninjured. Gentlemen must know, that cases occurred in which the whole savings of an industrious life were carried off; and he certainly was afraid, unless some effective system of secondary punishment could be devised, that to abolish the punishment of death in all cases would be an incentive to robbery. He thought the offence of forcibly entering houses with intent to rob, and putting the inmates in bodily fear, should be placed on the same footing, as, doubtless, persons so placed would be likely to resist, and that resistance would lead to the loss of life on the part of the person resisting; and if so, the aggressor should be subject to the severest penalty of the law. He would not now say whether hereafter it might not be deemed advisable to substitute secondary punishment in certain cases of this description; but should such be the case, still
 167
 Mr. Lloyd  said, it ought not to be lost sight of—that there was a wide distinction between putting a man's life in jeopardy and taking it away, though both offences were punished with death. He was aware of the difficulty suggested by the hon. and learned Solicitor General—namely, that there were so many notices of motions on these subjects that all the good effect of revising the law was in danger of being defeated. There was one objection which he felt to this measure in its present stage. The Bill of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Liverpool, it was well known, received what was called an amendment, in another place, at the suggestion of a noble and learned Lord. Having witnessed its practical working, he was very much inclined to doubt whether it was such an Amendment as ought to induce the House to dispense with the possibility of a capital punishment, so rarely exercised. As the Bill originally stood, by the 7th and 8th George 4th, not only was breaking into a dwelling-house, and putting a person in fear, made capital, but stealing in a dwelling-house above the value of 5 l 168 l 169
 Mr. Hill  regretted that a man of the talents of Mr. Cobbett should clothe himself in the worn-out vocabulary of prejudiced invective, so long worn only by the ignorant and the malevolent. If the hon. Member's argument was good for anything, it was for their returning  omnino Cobbett 176 177 178
 Mr. Faithfull : * * 179 180 181 182 183 184 185 186 l 187 188 189 190 191 192
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the case for the Motion was, that Major Yokes had interfered most improperly with the Limerick election, and that Mr. Kenney had done the same. To that, he contended, the right hon. Baronet had given no answer.
 Mr. Stanley  affirmed that the conduct of the Irish Government had been perfectly impartial during the whole of the election; and read two letters, one from Major Yokes, and the other from Mr. Kenney, in which both gentlemen denied the interference imputed to them.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the number of names of persons, for a list of which, with the salaries attached to their offices, &c., the hon. Member now moved, amounted to no less than 525. He just stated that fact, to show the enormous trouble that would be occasioned in making out this return. He should like to know, therefore, from the hon. Member, what object he had in view in moving for such a return. As yet the hon. Member had mentioned no grounds for this Motion, to which he (Lord Althorp) should certainly object, unless good parliamentary grounds were established for complying with it.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, in the first place, with regard to the enormous trouble which the noble Lord asserted the taking out of this return would occasion, that he (Mr. Cobbett) had one clerk, and that he would most undoubtedly discharge him on Saturday night unless he would in the space of twenty-four hours make out such a list as that of those 525 persons, with the salaries attached to their offices. What he (Mr. Cobbett) wanted to ascertain by this return was, who the persons were who pocketed a quarter of a million of money out of the collection of the stamps. He had a motion for the 26th instant relative to the Stamp duties, upon which occasion he would prove clearly to the House that those who should not pay those taxes—namely, the poor of the country—did pay them; that the rich, who ought to pay them, did not pay them; and his object in moving for this return was to prove that the rich actually received them. If the noble Lord should refuse him this return, which he did not ask as a favour from him, he (Mr. Cobbett), when he brought forward his Motion, would be obliged to proceed upon presumption, as the facts were withheld from him.
 Lord Althorp  had never supposed that this return was asked as a favour. What he said was, that good parliamentary grounds should be laid for such a Motion, and he did not think that the hon. Member had stated such grounds. If the hon. Member had stated that there were more persons employed in those departments than there ought to be, or that improper persons were employed in them, such would be good grounds for granting the return; but he had not made any such statement.
 Mr. O' Connell  contended, that sufficient grounds had been stated for granting the Motion. The mere fact that a quarter of a million of money was spent upon this department was sufficient to induce the House to call for such a return.
 Lord Althorp  begged to correct the hon. and learned member for Dublin. So far from this department costing half a million, or a quarter of a million, the whole of the salaries of the persons employed in it amounted only to 140,383 l
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know whether the parties were to be exposed to all the expense of the Grenville Act, as that would be a bar to justice in many places in England, and particularly in Ireland? Did the noble Lord mean to impose any oaths respecting bribery on the Members of that House?
 Lord John Russell  was understood to reply, that when petitions were frivolous and vexatious, the parties presenting them would be saddled with the costs; when they were otherwise, the expense would be defrayed in the same manner as the expense of other Parliamentary Committees. With respect to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, he
 195
 Mr. Lamb  did not intend to oppose the Motion. He thought the first object which the hon. Baronet had in view was already attained, because the second count in the indictment was seldom read to the Jury, and because Judges did not in the first instance tell the Jury to find whether a prisoner had been before convicted [ Cries of the Jury knew it 150
 Lord John Russell  was perfectly sensible of the evil which resulted from sending juvenile offenders to gaol, where they were brought into contact with the more experienced criminals; but he could not make up his mind to dispense with a Trial by Jury as a remedy for the evil. He had always considered the Trial by Jury as the most valuable protection of the subject, and he objected to abolish it in any case, lest that should be made a precedent for taking it away in others. He, therefore, would not give his support to the Bill in its future stages, unless that part of it which proposed to invest Magistrates with the power of summary conviction were expunged. At the same time he wished it to be understood that he did not participate in the sentiments of those who attributed to the Magistrates a harsh and an oppressive exercise of their authority; on the contrary, he thought the conduct of the Magistracy was generally lenient, and characterized by a leaning towards prisoners. It was notorious, for instance, that they carried to the utmost extent the erroneous practice of not interrogating prisoners or calling upon them to tell their own story. He remembered once, a prisoner who was on his trial for sheep-stealing, being asked whether he had any question to put to his master, who had given evidence against him, replied, "All I have to say is, that I am sorry for what I have done, and I hope my master will forgive me; and, if he does, I never will do anything of the kind again;" whereupon the Magistrates on the Bench stopped him, observing that he must not convict himself, and other witnesses were called to prove the fact which the prisoner had already admitted. He thought Magistrates ought to ask accused persons to account for their time at the period when the crimes were alleged to have been committed. With respect to the
 156
 Mr. O'Dwyer  proposed an Amendment to this effect:—" That the Revenues of the Church of England have always been subject to legislative enactments, and they ought to be appropriated to their original institution."
 Mr. Charles Buller  in illustration of the trifling offences for which boys were committed to gaol in the country, mentioned an instance which occurred at the Assizes for Devonshire last summer. A boy was committed for stealing a mackerel, whose imprisonment and trial cost the county 40 l
 Mr. Harvey  objected to the Amendment, as implying something to which no Protestant Dissenter could agree. He could not allow those revenues to be appropriated as they were originally.
 Mr. Harvey  acknowledged, that he too was a Dissenter and a Non-Conformist; but, though he was prepared to support the abstract proposition made by the hon. Member, he could not agree to all its terms. The hon. Member had rather prejudiced the question, by directing his arguments to the abuses of the Church, instead of limiting himself to establishing the great principle of religious liberty, and the injustice of compelling Dissenters to support an Established Church; which, being at variance with all spiritual freedom, was a fair and open subject of investigation. The hon. Member had rather dwelt on the administration of the Church, than upheld the great principle of toleration. He could not say, that the Church was altogether opposed to practical utility, for that would imply that it had been of no utility at all times, to which he could not agree. He should like to have the principle of exonerating the Dissenters from paying to the Church brought under discussion; and he had hoped that the noble Lord would, at least, even on this occasion, have acknowledged the principle that the Dissenters ought not to pay to the Established Church. He subscribed to the latter part of the proposition, but not to the former; and he trusted the hon. Mover would withdraw the Motion, as to negative it might place the non-conformists in an improper light.
 Mr. Ashford Sanford  only wished to defend the Magistrates from the attacks of the hon. member for Oldham. In the cases which had been referred to they were, under the existing state of the law, obliged to commit the offenders for trial.
 Mr. Aglionby  was friendly to the latter part of the proposition, but not to the first part of it, and had no other course but to oppose it.
 Mr. Hardy  supported the Motion. He complained of the attack which the hon. member for Oldham had made upon the general body of the magistracy of England. That hon. Member had spoken of officers of the army and navy and of clergymen of the Church of England who were Magistrates, as if they were ready to sacrifice the ends of justice to the basest and most interested purposes. It was too much to hear such an unjust attack made upon them in that House. He was acquainted with many clergymen of the Church of England, and with many officers of the
 153
 Mr. Brotherton  did not agree with the hon. member for Birmingham, and conceived that savings' banks had been productive of great national advantage, by enabling the labouring classes to save their money.
 Mr. Pease  said, that without wishing to disparage country banks, he could not help remarking, that when he knew, during his own experience, that the small county which he represented had been a loser to the extent of 600,000 l l
 Mr. Potter  said, he had heard of a frivolous case where a boy was placed at the bar for stealing sixteen pounds of dung, and he had no doubt but that if the Magistrate had possessed the power of summary conviction, the prisoner would have been sent to the treadmill.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought most of the difficulties arose from the imperfect specification of offences by our laws; and he could, on that occasion, not refrain from deprecating the mode in which the amendment of the criminal code had generally been attempted. The hon. member for Maldon was fortunate in having found an early hour of the night for the discussion; but the greater part, or even the whole, of the alterations hitherto made, were proposed at midnight sittings, or sittings after midnight. Even the great measure introduced by the right hon. member for Tamworth, by which the whole criminal law of England was altered, was a midnight measure. He would beg to suggest to the hon. member for Maldon, that, if a Commission were to be appointed to inquire into all offences against property, it would be advisable in him to withdraw his Motion for the present. At the same time he must observe, that the first part of it was so reasonable that, if the hon. Member pressed it, he (Mr. Fergusson) would support it. With respect to the law itself, he thought the invariable practice should be that a fixed and certain punishment was to be the general rule, and mercy and pardon in certain cases the exception. Upon this ground it was that he was anxious to ameliorate the law, and not let it go forth to Europe, that while we sentenced 400 or 500 persons
 170
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that he believed the Government was at this moment paying 60,000 l l 200 l l l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that though he was unacquainted with the details of the subject before the House, it was one so deeply interesting to the people of England that he could not refrain from saying a few words upon the occasion. Every Gentleman appeared to have his own project for altering the law, and he had his, which he would state before he sat down, and which fortunately lay in a very narrow compass. There was one thing connected with this subject which excited his displeasure, he had almost said disgust, and that was the everlasting references to France and America, in order to influence the opinions of people in England, which had set an example to the whole world of framing laws for ensuring the liberties of mankind—England, which was said to have been the cradle of liberty. Why should we be always looking abroad to see what other countries were thinking of us, and to see what America, and above all, what France was doing? As to what France was doing relative to the amelioration of the laws he knew nothing, and wished to know nothing, but from the accounts which he had seen of the manner in which justice was dispensed in French courts, he would say, the Lord deliver him from French courts of justice. Hon. Members who boasted so much of the excellence of the laws in America did not seem to be aware that they were no other than the English laws. At the time the independence of the United States was established the
 173 174 No, no d s d 175
 Mr. Cobbett : The noble Lord said, the House hardly expected him to answer the speech of the hon. member for Brighton. No, nor did I either.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he did not pretend to say, that Clergymen of the Church of England, and officers of the army and navy were worse than other men, he had only contrasted their dependence with the independence of the Judges. In doing so he meant to cast no imputation upon them.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he would at present give no opposition to the bringing in of this Bill; but that, in every future stage of it, if it extended the power of the Magistrates, or went further to diminish the use of the Trial by Jury, he would divide the House upon it, even if he stood alone. The use of the Trial by Jury had been going on lessening and lessening by degrees during the last forty years; and a bare enumeration of the instances in which by law it had been dispensed with during that period would shock the two hon. Baronets who had spoken in support of this measure. If they should endow Magistrates with the power of trying felonies without the intervention of a Jury, who would then say that they should not hang also without a Jury? [ No, no 152
 Mr. Ewart  adverted to the observation of an hon. Member, that by a Bill introduced last year, the Judges were obliged to inflict one undeviating system of punishment. That was, however, not his fault; for though he had introduced the Bill, the clause complained of had been introduced in another place. Much had been said about the manner in which capital punishments were mitigated, and no doubt they were mitigated; but his objection was, that mitigation was left to the operation of a secret tribunal. There was not in that House, there was not in the country, a single individual who could, for a moment, suppose that this power, vested as it was in the Secretary of State for the Home Department, would be abused; but still his objection remained undiminished—the mitigation was the work of a secret tribunal, and was not the working of the law of the land. It was an arbitration that ought not to be left to any private person or set of persons. It was not to the practice, but to the principle of such a tribunal that he objected. He did not object to it because it was abused, but because it might be. The right hon. member for Montgomeryshire had said, in effect, that there were so many mitigations in our code proposed, that the number was quite starding to the orthodox maintainers of the existing law; his argument was valid, to a certain extent; but because there was a necessity for certain previous investigations, was the House, in all cases, to wait? Was it desirable that it should be considered whether some crimes were properly punishable or not? Was it to pause in abrogating those punishments which were far too severe for the crimes to which they were affixed? It was said, that the question of secondary punishments was an open question. It was true, that a gentleman had been sent to America to inquire into secondary punishments; but because he was making his inquiries, were they to wait, when a necessity had been made out—and he contended that his hon. friend had made out a necessity—for a Bill like the present? Certainly not; and he, for one, would most cordially and strenuously support his hon. friend. It had been asserted, by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that the unsatisfactory
 171 172
 Mr. William Roche : Sir, the subject matter of the Motion which it becomes my duty to bring before the House, in obedience to the wishes and instructions of a considerable and respectable portion of my constituents, is certainly one which at all times demands, and has indeed at all times commanded, the most serious attention and jealous vigilance of this House, involving, as it does, the all important considerations of freedom of election, the rights and privileges of the people, and the dignity and character of this House, which must needs rise in the estimation and confidence of the people in proportion as it is felt to be the free emanation of their choice. The petition, Sir, which I hold in my hand, contains the complaint that forms the ground of my Motion, and charges the Irish Government with unduly interfering and exercising their influence during the last election for the city of Limerick against, not my return, but that of my hon. colleague Mr. David Roche, who is not now in his place, being at present in Limerick. But, Sir, as I have no wish to portray this complaint with the slightest shade of higher colouring than the allegations contained in the petition call upon one to do, I think my better way will be to read those charges from the petition itself; but before I do so, allow me to explain why it has not been earlier brought under the notice of this House. Sir, the petition has been in my hands for some weeks, and the delay of acting upon it arose from the following circumstances. Perceiving when I received it, that it contained such grave charges against the Irish Government, I conceived that justice and
 196
 The Speaker  said, they were too late, for not one "Aye" had been uttered when he put the question.
 The Solicitor General  did not by any means vise to oppose the Motion of his hon. friend. On the contrary, no object was nearer his heart than that the punishment of death should be abolished where-ever it was found practicable to abolish it; although he was not sanguine enough to believe that it would ever be possible to abolish it altogether. Crimes of violence, he feared, they must continue to be under the painful necessity of visiting with death. For murder, for burglary, for arson, for all crimes which threatened life, it seemed to him that the punishment of death accorded with the natural feelings of man. Until two years ago the criminal code of England was one of unexampled severity-But it must not be forgotten, that very important measures had been adopted for the purpose of diminishing that severity. He was happy to say, that since his Majesty's present Government had come into power, in the course of the last year, the offences of coining, of forgery, of sheep-stealing, of horse-stealing, of stealing in a dwelling-house, all of which had formerly been capital, had been made not capital offences. He felt the country was under considerable obligation to the right hon. member for Tamworth for the great efforts he had made in ameliorating the criminal
 165 166
 Sir Eardley Wilmot , in reply, stated that he would avail himself of the suggestions which had been thrown out in the course of the debate. His only object in introducing the measure was to do away with a notorious and extensive evil.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  rose, to move for leave to bring
 147 148 149
 Sir John Hobhouse  contended, that the hon. Member opposite had laid no sufficient grounds for the appointment of a Committee, and he should certainly resist the Motion; for the appointment of such a Committee would amount to pronouncing a sentence of condemnation upon the
 197
 Sir Oswald Mosley  supported the Motion. As Chairman of the Staffordshire Quarter Sessions, he knew that one half of the offenders who were brought before him were under the age of twenty-one. It was totally impossible, even under the best system of gaol discipline, to keep the juvenile prisoners apart from the more practised offender. At Stafford they had instituted a school for the purpose of instructing the young culprit, but the effects of the instruction were soon wiped out by the company they kept. It was sad to see the trifling offences for which children were exposed to punishment. He remembered the case of a boy who was committed to gaol for stealing three eggs, and he was kept two months in prison before he was tried, and then, for this petty offence, he was exposed to all the solemn proceedings of a public trial. He wished that a distinction were made by the law between large and small felons.
 151
 Sir Robert Inglis  would express his utter dissent from all the words of the proposition of the hon. Mover. He would make only one observation on the system of sermon and speech of the hon. Member. The hon. Member admitted, that he was a Dissenter, and he attacked those who in that House could not appear to defend themselves. He attacked them on account of their temporalities, and he attacked them also on their spiritual practices and motives. The hon. Member was, he believed, not only a Dissenter, but a
 194
 Lord Althorp  said, that the House, he was sure, would not expect him to answer the speech of the hon. member for Brighton. He would only observe, that the hon. Member had stated that he was a Dissenter; and he must say, that he was a member of the Church of England. The question, therefore, as to whether that Church were. good or not was one on which they might very properly differ. The hon. Member said his Motion was most important. In that he could not agree with the hon. Member, for he could not conceive that it possessed any prac-
 193
 Lord Althorp  said, that the accounts of all the savings' banks were annually laid before Government; and where any bank neglected to do so, the Commissioners exercised the power (one or two instances of which had occurred since he came into office) of closing such bank till its accounts were sent up.
 Lord Althorp , pursuant to the notice which he had given last night, moved for leave to bring in
 199 l l s l
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  presented a petition from the mechanics and operatives of the borough of Reading, in favour of the sale of Beer Act, and praying the House not to alter a measure which had been productive of much comfort and advantage to the petitioners without great consideration.
 Mr. Ruthven  considered that demoralization and crime originated rather in the use of ardent spirits than from the beer-shops, which were the means of relief and recreation of the poorer classes. He should be glad to see a measure introduced for the regulation of gin-shops.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to certain occurrences which had taken place in Ireland since the passing of the Coercion Bill, which at once put an end to everything in the shape of constitutional right. It had been frequently asserted, during the progress of
 245 246 Times Dublin Evening Post Moniteurs 247
 Sir John Hobhouse*  hoped that in the few observations which it would be his duty to make, in answer to the hon. and learned Gentleman, it would not be expected that he should deem it necessary to go into any justification of that which the Parliament had so recently thought fit to enact. He must, however, on this first occasion of his addressing the House in the situation which he now occupied, protest against the assertion made by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that the British Parliament was not inclined to do justice to Ireland, or to listen to appeals in her favour, or to hear in good faith everything that was advanced in her behalf by
 * 248 249 250
 Mr. O'Connell  must say one word on an occasion in which his feelings were so warmly interested. He had struggled for religious liberty, not for sectarian advantages, but for the principle that man's conscience should be free. An individual, as he knew, might be equally punished by unjust restrictions and by unmerited stripes. He was delighted that the day of good feeling in these matters had come—that this respectable and ancient nation, which had faithfully preserved a high religious sentiment, was no longer to be estranged from us, and that they could at last see the period when something like justice was granted to all men—when conscience was free, and the country rid of a stain which had so long dishonoured her.
 The Attorney General  said, that the only question for the House to consider was whether the Irish Government had not acted in strict conformity to the law in all that had hitherto been done with respect to the enforcement of the Irish Disturbance Bill in the county and city of Kilkenny; and if such was the case, what ground was there for the complaint of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, or what reason had he urged to induce the House to accede to his Motion? None, that he knew of; for the Irish Disturbance Bill was either intended to be enforced, or else it was a dead letter—and being enforced strictly within the limitations prescribed by the measure itself, there was no cause for complaint, unless any case beyond the law could be brought forward, which had not been done. Under these circumstances he must decline to sanction the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin.
 Mr. O'Connell  called to the recollection of hon. Members, that on a former occasion he moved, that in a fortnight after the proclaiming of any district by the Lord-lieutenant—provided that that House was then sitting—evidence should be adduced, and reasons given, why that district had been proclaimed. He acknowledged that his Motion was lost by a large majority. But the Ministers then promised that, upon all occasions, they would instantly produce evidence, and give reasons for the proclaiming of any district. Had they kept their word? Their present conduct was the answer. As for the argument that Kilkenny would be an asylum, or that any other district would be an asylum for the lawless, nothing could be more shallow—more unstatesmanlike. By none of the clauses of the Act was it provided that a place should be proclaimed because it was an asylum. It was enacted that a district should be proclaimed when it was found to be in a state of disturbance. But was the city of Kilkenny disturbed? It was not. The Proclamation then was a lie! That Proclamation, signed by the Lord Lieutenant, the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and by the Irish Ex-attorney General, was a lie! That it was a he had been that evening admitted by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, and by his Majesty's Attorney and Solicitor General; and yet the Lord-lieutenant was allowed to proclaim a tranquil city—to deprive its peaceable inhabitants of the Trial by Jury—to suspend the Habeas Corpus Act—and to force them to remain within doors between the hours of sun-set and sun-rise. Hon. Members on the other side of the House had unceasingly cried out about confidence in Ministers—that Ministers would well repay that confidence. This
 257
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  had the strongest objections to this Bill. In the Act which was passed a year and a half ago, the game was specifically declared to be the property of the landlord; and the hon. Gentleman now called upon the House to declare that this should no longer be the ease. He had supposed that the Game Laws had been set
 259
 The Solicitor General  was desirous of saying a few words before this Bill was read a second time. When the former Game Bill was before the House, he had agreed to that Amendment of the Lords, which it was the object of the present Bill to alter, because he feared that that measure would be lost if the Amendment was not agreed to. His noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had said at the time, that he lamented the introduction of the clause; and observed that, though it was against existing rights and interests, he was induced to agree in these amendments, fearing that otherwise the Bill would be lost for, at least, a year. At that time he observed that he trusted that the wrong done would be remedied at some future period. But what had been the effect of this Amendment of the Lords? A Gentleman holding an estate of 500 acres as tenant, if otherwise qualified, had a right to shoot over it, and the landlord could not come upon it without his permission. The Amendment of the Lords deprived every tenant of this privilege; and, not only the landlord might come himself and shoot the game, which was fed off the produce of the tenant's farm, but he might send other persons to kill the game there, and then he was entitled to sell it. The tenant was altogether excluded from killing the game. This was an extreme injustice, and neither more nor less than a breach of all then existing contracts between landlord and
 260
 Colonel Wood  was sorry to hear the observations of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and he trusted that the House would not be led away by his remarks. The hon. and learned Gentleman admitted that, formerly, the tenant, if not otherwise qualified, could not shoot on the farm he occupied. The hon. and learned Gentleman, to suit his present purpose, assumed the case where a tenant was qualified, and was in the possession of a right of shooting, of which he was deprived by the Game Bill. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman believe that there was a single occupier of a farm in England, who, being in that situation, had not reserved to himself the right of shooting over his farm by a clause in the lease? It was certainly possible that there might be isolated cases of this sort; but, certainly, the operation of the Lords Amendment on the Game Bill had not been so extensive in its operation as to make it incumbent on the House to alter one of the most important provisions in that Act. He had exerted himself, for several years, with a view to ameliorate the Game Laws, and to put them on a less objectionable footing than they then were; and he could not, therefore, be supposed to be a staunch supporter of the old and severe laws formerly in force with respect to game. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of landlords depriving tenants of the right of shooting, by means of the operation of this Amendment; but he would venture to say, that there were but very few cases in which this had occurred. He was satisfied that in most of those cases in which the occupier was qualified, he specially covenanted for the right of shooting over the farm he occupied; or the landlord reserved to himself in the same way, by express provision, the right. In the Committee which sat up-stairs on the Game Laws seventeen years ago, a question had arisen in whom the property of game on a farm should be vested The present Lord Teynham, the late Mr. Curwen, and other Gentlemen who were not very much disposed to set up arbitrary views of the Game Laws, in other respects,
 261
 Mr. Horatio Ross  said, as the hon. member for Reading had not proposed an Amendment, he would move, that this Bill be read a second time this day six months. The House would commit an act of great injustice, if it were to assent to this Bill; the object of which was, to give the tenant the right to kill and sell the game on all farms where the right had not been specially reserved by the landlord. The hon. Gentleman below him had said, that the Game Bill deprived all the tenants of a right which they previously possessed; but he (Mr. Ross), would venture to observe, that there was hardly a tenant in the country who was deprived of his right. If every tenant in the country were allowed to shoot, the end would be, the destruction of all the game in the country. All Gentlemen in that House were not such keen sportsmen as himself; but he trusted that the majority of the House would not consent to destroy these sports, which operated so powerfully in inducing gentlemen to reside on their estates. He would trouble the House with only one other observation. It was said to be unjust, that tenants should not have the right to kill the game which was fed on their farms; but it must be recollected that they were aware that they would not be allowed to do so, when they took their farms. If they were allowed to kill the game, of course they would have given more for their farms than they actually did pay; and, at present, it was not at all uncommon for gentlemen to make an allowance to their tenants, in cases where it appeared that the game had been destroying any portion of the crops. He trusted that the House would not consent to take away from country gentlemen such a powerful inducement as they now had to live on their estates in the country. The hon. Member concluded by moving his Amendment.
 Mr. Rolfe  hoped the House would not come to a decision on this Bill, with the impression that the state of the law was such as it had been described to be by the opponents of this Bill. Both the hon. member for Reading, and the hon. member for Montrose, were completely wrong as to the law on this subject. It had been said, that there were very few cases in which tenants, who had, at any time, had the right of shooting, had not reserved to themselves this right, in special clauses in their leases. He was able to state, on the au thority of a most eminent conveyancer and lawyer, that he never knew a case in which
 263 l l 264 l
 Mr. Lamb  was aware that the House was impatient to come to a decision on this Bill. He would, therefore, take up but a very few minutes in the observations which he felt called upon to make. When the Game Bill had passed through that House, and received the sanction of the other branches of the Legislature, he had not anticipated that, in the short space of a year and a-half, they should have been called upon to make an important alteration in it. He was not disposed to assent to this proposition, because this Bill would, in its operation, be attended with much injustice to the landlords. The hon. member for Maldon had stated two or three cases in which he said that the clause in the Game Bill, which he desired to alter, had been productive of hardship to tenants. He (Mr. Lamb) did not take the same view of those cases as the hon. Member did; and did not consider them of such a nature as to render it incumbent on the House to alter the Game Bill. His hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, had also expressed himself warmly in favour of the measure now before the House. If he and other lawyers would pass a little more time in the fields—in the country—in sporting—they would not be so indifferent as they appeared to be to field sports, and so desirous of interfering with these pursuits of country gentlemen. It must be recollected that formerly very few tenants were qualified so as to entitle them to sport; so that the clause in the Game Bill could not have
 265
 Mr. O'Dwyer  contended, that the city of Kilkenny was perfectly quiet. This was admitted on all hands, and, therefore, that city ought to have been excepted from the operation of the Proclamation. It was quite clear that Government had exceeded the necessity of the case, and they ought to be compelled to lay upon the Table of the House something like a justification of their measures.
 Mr. Charles Buller  regretted that the gallant General should have thought it necessary to attack a respectable gentleman like Mr. Pearce, who was not present to defend himself. The only charge that he (Mr. Buller) knew against Mr. Pearce was, that he had once been a Tory, but that stain he had wiped away by two or three years constant opposition to that party. With respect to the gamekeeper he had himself inquired into the circumstance, and had learned that the individual who had been alluded to received 50 l
 Mr. Harvey  said, that not one argument had been advanced by the right hon. the Secretary for the Treasury in defence of the proclamation of the city of Kilkenny but what would be equally applicable to the whole of Ireland, if any hon. Member chose to get up on that side of the House and urge the proclamation of the whole kingdom. The speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was an experimental speech; and he had no doubt, if the experiment he now recommended were found ineffectual, and that crime fled from the city and county of Kilkenny to the country in the neighbourhood, the right hon. Gentleman would feel himself authorised, in the same spirit, and by this ingenious invention of his of asylums (a word not to be found, by the bye, in the whole melancholy Act, as it was called), to recommend placing each district, which proved the asylum of those who had once been disaffected, out of the pale of the Constitution, till he had tried the experiment on
 254
 Mr. Edward Buller  had supported the Beer Bill on its introduction, in the hope it would be productive of great benefit to the poorer classes, by destroying monopolies, and giving them a good commodity,
 204
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed his surprise that the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin should have met with the reception it had at the hands of the House; and that his Majesty's Ministers should not have instantly conceded, as a matter of right, demands so reasonable as those of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was the duty of Government to prove—the  onus probandi
 Sir Henry Hardinge , after thanking the hon. Baronet for his courtesy in having communicated to him his intention of presenting this petition, observed, that though the petition stated amongst other things that the law had fallen into disrepute owing to the want of respectability of the Aldermen of the borough, yet not one fact or one instance of misconduct in any of the Aldermen was brought forward to prove the statement. The hon. Member had indeed said, that the Duke of Northumberland had appointed his gamekeeper to the office of Alderman; but he must inform the House that the individual alluded to was a person possessing considerable property in the borough, whose father and grandfather had both filled the office before him, and whose only crime was, that, being fond of shooting, the noble Duke had given him a deputation to shoot over his grounds, but the individual did not receive one shilling for his services. The petition also alleged, that the corporate funds, which were considerable, had been misapplied, but not a single instance of misapplication was stated. He did not believe the assertion, for, in the year 1831, when complaints were made in this respect to the Corporation, that body submitted to a full inquiry for any period that the parties thought proper. That inquiry was gone into by Mr. Pearce, an attorney, whose name appeared first to this petition, and another gentleman; and though they went back into the accounts for a period of upwards of twenty years, the result was that not a single instance of misapplication or abuse could be found. The petition was got up to serve electioneering purposes by Mr. Pearce, who had been the
 203
 Sir Henry Hardinge  held letters from most respectable persons in Launceston, which corroborated his statement as to the respectability and property of the alleged gamekeeper; and he again repeated, that the petition did not contain a single fact against that body, either as magistrates or corporators.
 Mr. Halcomb  felt, that he rose under the greatest disadvantage, after the eloquent address which the House had just heard—an address, however, which abounded with sophistry, even more than with eloquence. The hon. Member challenged any one to show why an arbitrary line should be drawn, and why on one side justice and on the other persecution should be supposed to exist. He (Mr. Halcomb) accepted the challenge. The broad line between that which ought to be considered persecution, and that which ought not to be considered persecution of the professors of Judaism, was bottomed on the principles of common sense and sound justice. The question was, whether there did not exist in the Constitution good reason for preventing the followers of Judaism from a full participation in that Constitution. Now the Constitution declared, that there should be in England an Established Church connected with and supported by the State. Even that principle had, indeed, of late been assailed, and therefore it was high time that the Members of that House should deliberate on the subject and make up their minds whether they would stand by the institutions of their fathers or not. As long, however, as there was that connection, it was their duty rigidly to uphold it, and notwithstanding all the taunts of the hon. Gentleman on those who held opinions different to his own; notwithstanding what he had been pleased to say about the logic of bigotry and intolerance, such was still the Constitution of this country. The union of Church and
 239 ;
 Mr. Poulter  said, that his hon. friend, the member for the University of Oxford, dwelt much, in the course of his address, upon the principle that Christianity was part and parcel of the law of the land. That principle was only laid down in judicial  dicta 240 241 242
 Mr. Roebuck  denied, that the existing demoralization was to be attributed to the beer-shops, or that demoralization had increased since the passing of the Beer-bill. He should oppose any attempt to change the system, which had so much benefitted the poor classes.
 Mr. Hume  could not find, in the speeches of the hon. member for the University of Oxford, and of the hon. member for Dover, any arguments to answer the admirable speech of the hon. member for Leeds; and the proposition that these unjust and injudicious disabilities ought to be removed, was untouched. The lamentations which had been so pathetically uttered by the hon. member for Dover (Mr. Halcomb), seemed as if intended to apply to former Parliaments for repealing the Test and Corporation Acts, and emancipating the Catholics. He considered the Jews of the present day were by no means like those of former ages, and that it was a great mistake to go back at all to those times in legislating upon the present question. The arguments of the hon. member for Oxford on the subjects of the Jews' oath had no weight in his mind—they swore by Jehovah, on the Old Testament, and we, by God, on the Gospels, which was the only difference. It had been said, if this sect were once allowed full political privileges, by what right and on what reason could we refuse them to the Brahmins and Parsees? Nothing would give him greater pleasure than seeing Brahmins and Parsees in that House. He would tell hon. Members from his own experience, that they were as intelligent and valuable a class as any in their own country. He should give the Resolution his most hearty support. He held a letter in his hand, though he would not trouble the House by reading it, from Mr. Quincy Adams, the
 243
 Mr. Hume  said, the Solicitor General had made out no case whatever in defence of the Irish Government's having put the city of Kilkenny under the operation of the Coercive Bill; indeed he looked upon all the hon. and learned Member had said to be but a lame excuse for a very indefensible proceeding. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland declared the Lord-lieutenant's reason to be founded on the fact that certain meetings, tending to a violation of the public tranquillity, had been held in Kilkenny city; but if so, why punish the whole city for the act of a few? Why
 252
 Mr. Sullivan  said, that if there was any ground for inflicting this act on the city of Kilkenny, it ought to be stated openly and fairly. He was sure that there were none of the authorities of the city who would justify the measure. The last Assizes there showed it to be unnecessary. It had been most injurious to the city. He had a letter, which stated that on the market-day next after the Proclamation, the usual supply of provisions did not come in—there was not one-tenth of the potatoes that were required brought into the city. He admitted that the Act was administered with the utmost lenity; but he denied that it ought to have been inflicted at all on the city. He admitted that there was a necessity for some strong measure to preserve the peace of the county, but that necessity did not extend to the city. If there had been any such, the right hon. Gentleman would not have withheld it.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, it now became his duty to propose the following Resolution:—" That it is expedient to remove all civil disabilities at present existing affecting his Majesty's subjects of the Jewish religion, with the like exceptions as are provided with reference to his Majesty's subjects professing the Roman Catholic religion." The disabilities under which the Jews laboured were very nearly the same as affected the Roman Catholics at the time of passing the bill for their emancipation. He was desirous to remove the Jews from the situation in which they now were, and to place them where the Catholics at present stood. The great principle upon which he rested his case and which he frequently advocated in that House, he took to be this—that in every civilized and properly-regulated community no man ought to be excluded, as a general rule, from any civil right or privilege on account of his religious sentiments being different from those of the community at large, unless those sentiments threatened the disorganization of civil society. Unless that exception could be made out, a man's religious opinions ought not to operate as a reason against his enjoying any civil right or privilege. Now, if any one could show to him any other religious community, under the same circumstances, whose conduct was as correct and peaceable as that of the Jews, he would be perfectly content to second a motion for their relief. When he formerly introduced this subject, he had been reproached by an hon. Gentleman for taking up the cause of Judaism before he had advocated that of a
 208 per saltum 209 210 211 non sequitur 212 213 214 215 216 217 par excellence 218 219 220 221
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that before he proceeded with his intended Motion on the subject of Jewish disabilities, he was prepared to state to the House, in contradiction to what had already been asserted there,—namely, that the Jews did not feel those disabilities,—he was prepared to state that he had received letters signed by the most respectable of that class of his Majesty's subjects, declaring the interest they felt in the question, and regretting that it had not been yet settled. The case of the Jews was so strong, that he thought he might, without offering a single remark, submit their grievances to the House of Commons, with a full confidence of success. The whole body of persons of that persuasion, except a few who were too insignificant to merit attention, took the deepest interest in what he was about to propose. On a former occasion, in the late House of Commons, he moved for leave to bring in a bill for the removal of those disabilities which affected Jewish subjects; but, in conformity with precedents, and in accordance with the opinions of the friends of the measure, it was now thought better to move the House for a Committee of the whole House to consider those disabilities. In that Committee he would move a Resolution on the subject. His object was to place the Jews on the same footing with that class of separatists from the Established Church—the Roman Catholics—whose civil rights were now recognized by act of Parliament. On a former occasion, when the subject was less considered by the public than it had been since, he had felt it necessary to observe and make remarks upon the whole case. He did not now deem it necessary to take that course. He would state first the principle on which he rested his case, and he should then very shortly apply him-
 206
 Mr. Robert Grant  thought the latter course was decidedly the best for him to adopt. He should therefore move, "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the disabilities affecting Jewish subjects." In the Committee he should state his Resolution.
 Mr. Robert Grant  should be glad to assent to the arrangement proposed by the hon. Baronet, if he represented any one but himself on this occasion; but the hon. Baronet could not answer for the course which other hon. Gentlemen might think it expedient to pursue. If they adopted the mode of proceeding which the hon. Baronet recommended, the House might be exposed to the risk of a double debate, which, he imagined, in this stage of the proceeding, to be wholly unnecessary.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was surprised to hear from the hon. member for Bath that demoralization had not increased; for, in fact, within the period of sixteen years, the amount of crime had quadrupled. Notwithstanding this, he thought on inquiry it would be found that the increase was not to be attributed to the beer-shops, but to the difficulties, distress, and embarrassments under which the people had so long
 205 l l
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that when the question was formerly discussed, it was observed by a common friend of the hon. Baronet and of himself, a friend whom they both loved, and whose loss they had in common deeply deplored, that it was difficult to make a speech in favour of the Jews without weakening their cause by advocating truths which admitted of no question. Nothing, however, he must confess, which had happened since that period seemed at all calculated to alter the situation in which they were placed. Conscious of this, his hon. friend the member for the University of Oxford, had begun by entirely disclaiming all intention of calling in question the great principles of religious liberty, on which the measure in favour of the Jews was to be founded, had attempted to shake off the burthen of proving their case from his own party, and to place it upon those who advocated the cause of toleration. He had argued, that the conferring of political power upon any particular class of individuals was a matter of grace, not of right; that the distribution of that power being in the hands of the supreme authority in every country, no one had a right to complain, whatever distribution the supreme authorily might choose to make; that persons had no right even to ask on what grounds some were endowed with privileges to the exclusion of others: a doctrine so monstrous, if carried to its extreme extent, that every reasonable man would shrink from expounding it. Was the right hon. Baronet prepared to say, then, that it would be right for the supreme authority to enact that no man should be admitted to political rights unless he were six feet high, or unless he possessed some other capricious qualification of a similar nature? Would not such a regulation, even according to the hon. Baronet, be gross injustice? Yet such would be the logical consequences of his argument, that the supreme authority had a right to dispose of political power to whom
 228 229 230 l l l 231 Paine's Age of Reason 232 233 ; 234 235 236 237 238
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the distinction which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had drawn between the case of Kilkenny county and Kilkenny city would not have been thought of but from the mere accident that Kilkenny city was a city and a county of itself, and was therefore of necessity distinctly and separately named in the act of proclamation, by which the district was placed under the operation of the Disturbance Bill. If it was admitted, that the county of Kilkenny was justly placed under the Disturbance Bill, why should the Government be called upon to admit so trifling a distinction as that of a mere local difference, in order to exempt Kilkenny city from the Bill? Were such a distinction allowed practically to exist, it would lead to the most serious inconveniences. What must be the consequence if the mere passing a line was to give security to the offenders? He recollected the case of the city of Limerick,
 253
 Mr. William Roche : Belonging Sir, like my hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin to a religious persuasion which had been so long so unjustly and injuriously persecuted and degraded as the Roman Catholics were—injuriously—not alone as regards their own feelings and interests, but the interests of the community at large; for it is impossible that 6,000,000 or 7,000,000 of the people can be oppressed and their energies paralyzed without inflicting deep injury on the whole community. I feel myself bound alike by a conviction of its intrinsic justice and utility, as by a disposition to mete out an equal measure of liberality to all sects, to support the Resolution before the House. Sir, we all recollect that the same stale arguments which used to be directed in days not long gone by against granting further political privileges to the Catholics are, amongst others, revived on the present occasion, and will ever be revived so long as any vestige of exclusion is allowed to remain. If, Sir, the Jews have proved themselves good subjects in this country, and in all other countries where they have been domesticated and admitted to political freedom, that is all we have a right to look to, leaving to them as
 244
 Mr. William Roche  said: Sir, my right hon. friend the Secretary to the Treasury, having adverted to the disadvantage he conceives to have arisen from the city and county of the city of Limerick being exempted from the operations of the Insurrection Act, while the adjoining counties were, in consequence of their then state of disturbance, placed under its restraints, calls upon me as one of the Representatives and one of the Magistrates of that city to set my right hon. friend right, and to assure him that no such disadvantage had been experienced; at all events no disadvantage adequate to the necessity, or commensurate with the hardships, of placing the inhabitants of a perfectly loyal and peaceable city out of the pale of the ordinary law for the protection of their liberties. No doubt. Sir, it demanded some increased vigilance and vigour on the part of the municipal authorities, but that vigilance and vigour were found quite sufficient to prevent contamination and spare the commission of the great injustice (from an overweening precaution) of exposing the innocent and guilty to a similar state of coercion. I apprehend, therefore. Sir, that the case of Limerick is no illustration of the necessity or propriety of placing the city of Kilkenny, tranquil as it is admitted to be, under the still more severe enactments of the new law—Sir with regard to the question in general I think the city of Kilkenny stands peculiarly entitled to exemption and respect, for the more contiguous it is to the moral contagion raging in its vicinity the more merit it deserves for keeping itself free from the malady. In another point of view also, Sir, I think it would have been judicious as well as just to make the distinction, because it would show the disturbers of the peace in the county, in the most forcible colours, the evil consequences of their misdeeds, by the contrast of freedom and comfort enjoyed by their neighbours in the city compared with the restrictions and restraints to which they were subjected; I therefore, Sir, see no case made out to justify this mixing up promiscuously of guilt and
 255
 The Speaker  suggested, that the consideration of the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman in the Committee of the whole House would be the regular course of proceeding. If the hon. Baronet would refer to the old practice of Parliament, he would find that the rule was, or at least that it was customary, before the House entertained a new measure of this nature, to
 207
 The Speaker  said, the proposition was merely for a Committee, as it would be for a Committee to consider whether the House should be recommended to take any measures.
 The Speaker  suggested whether it would not be for the convenience of the House to know distinctly what course the hon. Gentleman meant to adopt. If he intended to move a resolution in a Committee of the whole House, it was to be considered, whether he would move for a Committee of the whole House at once, and then open, his case in that Committee, or whether he would open his case now, and end with his motion for a Committee. The difference of the two modes was this—that if he took the latter course, the debate would, in the first instance, be taken in the House, and afterwards in the Committee; but if the House went into Committee in the first instance, the case might then be opened, and a single debate would suffice on the Resolution.
 The Solicitor General  said, he agreed with those who thought that it was impossible for that House to show too much vigilance in watching the exercise of the powers
 251
 Sir Robert Inglis , in rising to oppose the Motion, said, that his right hon. friend had made much larger concessions, to what he would call the spurious liberality of the age, than he could have ever expected from him, considering the respect which he knew that his right ho. friend entertained for all that belonged to Christianity. In the present instance he was greatly disappointed in the course of argument taken by his right hon. friend, as well as in his whole tone and manner. So fastidious was his right hon. friend, that he almost hesitated to call the well-known Julian an "apostate," who, from first being a Christian, afterwards turned, and became a most zealous Pagan. [Mr. Grant, across the Table, said he had merely used the phrase "justly, though harshly."] The fastidiousness, however, of the reservation was, he could not but think, ill-omened in the commencement of a discussion on such a subject as the present. His right hon. friend had laid it down as a general proposition, that religious opinions should not disqualify their professors from the holding of political power. Now, instead of setting forth with such a general proposition, his right hon. friend should have confined it to
 222 223 224 225 226 227
 Sir Robert Inglis  might perhaps save the time of the House by observing, that in the absence of many of those who were opposed to the measure he should not divide on that occasion, and he felt the less inclination to do so on account of the absence of his Majesty's Ministers.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought it would be better to open the case in the whole House, and not in Committee. If the debate were proceeded with, there might be an understanding, that the proposition about to be submitted to the consideration of the House should not be again discussed in Committee.
 Sir Robert Inglis  protesting against the principle of the measure, would not farther oppose the going into a Committee.
 Sir Robert Inglis  objected to the House entertaining the proposition at all, and whether the Motion were for leave to bring in a Bill, or for the House to resolve itself into a Committee, he was disposed to oppose it. He certainly was of opinion that the sense of the House should be taken on the question that the Speaker do leave the Chair.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that his Majesty's Ministers were not called upon to defend their conduct, but to give to the House information on the necessity of proclaiming the city of Kilkenny. He, therefore, conjured Ministers, unless there were very great obstacles to so doing, to produce the documents asked for by the hon. and learned member for Dublin.
 Sir William Molesworth  presented a petition from the inhabitants of the borough of Launceston, complaining of corporate abuses, and of the want of respectability in the persons composing the body of Aldermen in the
 202
 Lord Sandon  said, that he was not surprised at the stern opposition which those Gentlemen who originally opposed the Disturbances in Ireland Bill now opposed the proclamation, and the conduct of the Irish Government in respect to this district, but he, having consented to a departure from the Constitution, was willing to see the law put into full execution. Was that measure, he would ask, to which he, as well as many others, had very reluctantly given assent, to remain as a mere  brutum fulmen probandi 256
 Mr. Parrot  said, that he was happy to see one petition on the subject of the beer shops which contained common sense. It appeared to him, that most of the petitions
 270 d d
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to submit a Motion to the House with reference to the beer-shops, which, he said, had given rise to an alarming extent of crime and pauperism. It was not his wish to abolish them, but he wished them to be better conducted. At present they were receptacles for every thing bad. He attributed a
 271
 Colonel Williams  seconded the Motion. He conceived the beer-shops to be fraught with unqualified abuses. They had added to the amount of pauperism in the country. The remedy for all these abuses was to revert to the original intention, and compel those who were allowed to sell beer, not to allow it to be drunk on the premises.
 Colonel Wood  said, that the Magistrates ought to have quite as much authority with respect to these beer houses as to public houses. If Ministers, however, wanted the people to get good beer, the best thing they could do would be to take off a considerable portion of the Malt-duties, and impose a small duty on Beer, by which means both they and the people would be satisfied.
 Mr. Baring  was far from agreeing with the hon. member for Middlesex. Though the Sale of Beer Act might, perhaps, have worked well as far as concerned the single county of Middlesex, he had the best reason to believe that in all the rural districts it had been productive of the most ruinous consequences. The hon. member for Middlesex would find his opinion on this subject decidedly opposed to the opinion of the great bulk of the Magistrates, landlords, farmers, and respectable inhabitants of the agricultural districts; who, ninety-nine out of a 100, were strongly opposed to the Beer Bill, from their sad experience of its ruinous effects. The profligacy, the unmitigated mass of corruption and depravity arising from these beer-shops, throughout the country, was appalling. The Commissioners on the Poor-laws, whose experience must entitle their, opinion to the most serious attention, decidedly declared that they considered these beer shops had greatly aggravated the misery and distress of the lower orders. If the hon. member for Middlesex were right, nearly the whole country must be wrong. He was glad that the Committee was to be appointed, and he should certainly have gone further into the subject, but that he expected to have a better opportunity of explaining his views than in the House.
 Mr. Pryme  thought, that the Act might be made beneficial if the keepers of beer shops were to brew their own beer, which would put an end to the mischievous monopoly of the beer brewers.
 Mr. Baring asked,  whether the valuators were to take the Poor-rates into consideration, for the tithes were, at present, rated to the poor?
 Colonel Torrens  congratulated the House and the country on the proposition for a commutation of tithes, the effect of which would be, that the revenue of the Church would no longer be, as it now was, a tax on capital. He trusted the proposition would give general satisfaction; as he was convinced that, with some modifications, it would be an admirable improvement on the present system.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  concurred in the plan of Government, and if he could have his way it should go much further. A great advantage would arise from a commutation of the tithes, for he knew in several parishes where it had taken place, that the best effects had followed it. At present a law existed for the commutation of tithes, but it had a directly contrary effect, inasmuch as the appointment of the valuator was placed by it in the hands only of the landowner and the Bishop. He should like to know if by the plan now proposed, the valuation was to be made on a given quantity of produce in one year, or was it to be taken on an average of three, five, or seven years (on an average of years)? He would give the principle of the Bill his best support.
 Mr. Baring  thought it extremely desirable that the proposition of the noble Lord should come fully before the public, in order that the general opinion with respect to it might be ascertained. It certainly comprehended no spoliation of any kind, nor was it at all a party question. At the same time he thought that the objections made by the hon. member for Middlesex and others, against making the present payments the basis of the measure, were almost insurmountable. When the injustice of taking as data in one case payments in parishes where tithes had been screwed up by the clergymen to the greatest possible extent, and in another case payments in parishes where tithes had been liberally suffered to remain much below the real amount, was considered, he thought that this would be obvious. A general valuation would be preferable to such a system. Adverting to the question which had been raised as to the poor's rate, he must observe, that no one could read the melancholy Report which had recently been made upon that subject, and assert that it ought to be permitted to remain in its present state. In some parishes in the south of England the rates were 27 s s 288 s l l l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the discussion of the principle of this Bill had been postponed on the understanding that it should be taken on the question of going into Committee He therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would give his reasons for proposing this measure.
 Sir John Hobhouse  acknowledged that what the hon. and learned Gentleman said was true, and he should endeavour, however imperfectly, to assign reasons why this Bill should pass. The Government asked for this Bill on the same grounds as those which induced the House to pass the late
 305
 Mr. O'Connell : When was this notice served on the party?
 Sir John Hobhouse : On March 19.
 Mr. O'Connell : Do you go back to March, 1819, for cases?
 Sir John Hobhouse : Certainly not. The case he referred to occurred on March 19, in the present year. He was not so ignorant of events that had lately happened, and of the hon. and learned Member's own exploits, as to refer back to so distant a period as the year 1819. He held in his hand a list of a variety of similar cases which he would mention if the House desired it. The right hon. Baronet accordingly proceeded to mention several other cases similar to those of which so many were quoted by Lord Althorp and Mr. Stanley, on introducing the Suppression of Disturbances Bill, for the purpose of showing the system of terror and intimidation which still prevailed in Ireland, and the effect of which was entirely to prevent the administration of justice in that country. He learned, by a communication he had received from Ireland, that the present plan of the Whitefeet was not to deter witnesses from coming forward, but to order them to attend at the Assizes for the purpose of giving such evidence as they (the Whitefeet) might think fit. He had also an affidavit to the effect that money had been collected for the purpose of obtaining the acquittal of persons charged with outrages, and that Mr. Maurice Reid, a Magistrate of Kilkenny, had received so many threatening letters
 306
 Mr. O'Connell  denied, that any case had been made out to justify such a Bill, and he would move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, in order to ascertain if it were necessary that it should be passed. After the change which had lately taken place in the Irish Secretary ship, he had hoped that he should not have any occasion to reply to personal attacks; but this expectation, he was sorry to say, had been disappointed. The right hon. Baronet had talked of his (Mr. O'Connell's) exploits. Now he begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman, that they had not been shifting and changeable, but consistent and of a uniform character. But dismissing this topic, he would ask the House whether there had ever been made such an attempt to trample on the constitutional rights of Ireland as had been ventured on that night? Were they prepared, on the strength of such documents as had been produced by the right hon. Secretary, on his simple allegation indeed to interrupt the usual course of justice in Ireland? If there had not been the utmost readiness on the part of the House to pass such a Bill, it would never have been introduced. Never before had such a measure been brought forward upon such grounds, or supported by such facts?
 307 308
 The Solicitor General  had no hesitation in opposing the Amendment of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. What was it which the hon. Member had so much reprobated? It might be supposed that it was the most tyrannical code ever proposed for enslaving an unfortunate people. From the learned Gentleman's observations, one would really imagine, that it was proposed that the inhabitants of Ireland should be shipped off and tried in some remote corner of the globe. But what did the Bill amount to? To this, and this only:—that if it should appear to the satisfaction of the Judges of the Court of King's Bench in Ireland, the regular constitutional tribunal of the country, that there could not be a fair trial in the county in which an offence was committed, they might direct the trial to take place in the next adjoining county, or in the city of Dublin. Application for the removal of the trial might be made either by the accused, or the prosecutor; and every expense incurred by the prisoner, in the conveyance of his witnesses to the place appointed by the Court, would be paid. It seemed to him, then, that this Bill, so far from prejudging the case of a prisoner, tended only to give him a fair and impartial trial; and for that reason he should give it his decided support. The Bill which lately passed the House he felt himself compelled to support, most reluctantly, because it went, in certain cases, to supersede the Trial by Jury, and to establish unconstitutional tribunals. But the present Bill would tend to make those unconstitutional tribunals unnecessary, and would continue the Trial by Jury, according to the ancient law of the kingdom. The hon. and learned member for Dublin
 309 310 v 311
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he knew of no case in which the venue was changed except at the desire of the prisoner. There was no instance of its being changed on the part of the Crown. He regretted that the Court-martial clause had passed at all. Such a Bill as this might have rendered it quite unnecessary. He was prepared to oppose the changing of the venue to the city of Dublin, on account of the manner in which Juries were appointed.
 The Solicitor General  said, he had no doubt that upon application the venue would be changed at the desire of the prosecutor.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, there was a statute which enabled the prosecutor to have a trial in the next county.
 Mr. Jervis  said, he did not mean to oppose the Bill. He believed there was no instance of the venue being changed in cases of felony at the suggestion of the prosecutor. At the same time, he did not mean to say, that a power to do that should not
 312
 Mr. Aglionby  supported the Bill. He might be disposed in the Committee to vote against the venue being changed to the city of Dublin.
 Mr. Sinclair  supported the Bill. He was a friend to Ireland, and as much disposed as any man to maintain her liberties. He heard nothing which could induce him to vote against the Bill.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that for three hundred years this parrot cry of friendship to slaves was repeated in the West Indies, as it was now with respect to Ireland Such professions of friendship were nothing but slang and cant. The friendship of England to Ireland had invariably shown itself in coercion. Not a single case of intimidation had been produced to justify this Bill, except one, founded upon anonymous information. He admitted that as fair and impartial a Jury might be had in Dublin as in any part of the empire if the Juries were struck in a different manner.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought it quite improper in the member for Tralee to charge his hon. friend (Mr. Sinclair) with the use of cant and slang. He protested against the use of such language in that House.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  spoke generally of professions, which he must consider, looking into the result as hypocritical; and he meant nothing personally offensive to the member for Caithness.
 Mr. Sinclair  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  opposed the Bill, and expressed his astonishment at a proposition to subject all Ireland to Dublin Juries. The Jury system there was full of vices. An instance in point was this: an Alderman was using insulting language to the King, and, on being remonstrated with, replied, "you may prosecute me if you like, but if it was even for treason, I am sure of getting a Jury to acquit me." Indeed, when it happened that the Attorney General had a quarrel with the Corporation he could get no conviction whatever.
 Mr. Hill  thought the last speaker had given an undeniable reason for passing the Bill, for if it were a law, and an Alderman should speak treason, or the Attorney General have a quarrel with the Corporation, the venue might be changed, and the Alderman might find the experiment hazardous, and the Corporation might find it dangerous to obstruct the course of the
 313 Connell: 314 315 O'Connell:
 Captain Yorke  observed, that the navy had no fear of inquiry, but was anxious to be placed in a fair position before the country, and to have its claims examined. He had no doubt that the noble Lord would deal fairly by the navy as well as by the army; but he was sure that if rewards were to be doled out by the House of Commons, they would be conferred in a more lavish and a more expensive manner to the country than if they were left in the hands of the Crown, for a popular assembly like that was more likely to be acted upon by strong feelings, whenever a case came before it well and eloquently represented. He wished the navy, in respect to sinecures, to be treated in the same way as the army.
 Colonel Davies  observed, that the very fair manner in which the noble Lord had met this Motion would tend most powerfully to restore and increase the confidence of the country in the present Government.
 300 301 l l l l l
 Sir Alexander Hope  expressed his satisfaction at the manner in which the Government had met this question. All that the army wanted was such honours and rewards for actual services as the country thought fit to bestow. The military profession asked for neither sinecures nor unmerited pensions. Indeed, the taunts which were sometimes thrown out against the army, charging them with plundering the people of their money and luxuriating in sinecures, were far more hurtful to the feelings of
 302
 Lord John Russell  concurred with his hon. friend that it was desirable the question should be settled. In answer to the observations of the hon. member for Essex, that if the present payments were taken as the basis of the future arrangement, the parishes where the tithes were now screwed up to the highest pitch would henceforward have to pay too much, and the parishes where the tithes were now less than the fair amount, would henceforward have to pay too little, he observed that the objection had struck his Majesty's Government; but that, after much consideration, it appeared to them, that any other course would be still more liable to animadversion.
 289
 Major Beauclerk  wished to set his hon. colleague right as to the prayer of the petition. It did not pray that no law whatever might be passed on the subject, but that no measure which might tend to restrict the innocent amusements of the people might be passed. The hon. Baronet's Bill went to shut the gates of the Park, which he quite objected to, though he had no objection to any measure which merely had for its object the prevention of Sunday trading.
 Major Beauclerk  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Wandsworth, in the county of Surrey, praying the House not to permit the second reading of the Bill introduced for the better Observance of the Sabbath. The petitioners gave, as their opinion, that the Observance of the Sabbath was better kept now than informer years; and that any further enactments would only go to create dissatisfaction and schism. The hon. Member bore testimony to the respectability of the petitioners, who, he Stated, comprised above 200 of the oldest inhabitants of Wandsworth. If he thought for a moment that fine and imprisonment could tend to the propagation and support of the Christian
 267
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that while these beer-shops were put, as proposed, under the same police  surveillance
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  feared the proposed arrangement would prejudice the landowner, and that the way in which the remission of tithes was to be made would prove alike unequal and unjust. He thought that it would be most advisable to allow clergymen, wherever it could be effected, to commute their tithe for land.
 Mr. Briscoe  felt the greatest pleasure in bearing testimony to the respectability of the petitioners, but he thought it right to state, that he could not concur altogether in the prayer of the petition, that no legislative enactment whatever should take place on the subject. He had al. ready presented a great many petitions from different parts of the country to the House, and they all prayed that some law might be introduced for the better Observance of the Sabbath-day. He could not, certainly, give his consent to the Bill as at present introduced; but, at the same time, it was very necessary that some legislative enactment should take place; and he believed all parties agreed that it should go to the extent of the entire suppression of Sunday trading [" Hear, hear!
 Mr. Halcomb  wished to know if the tithes on hay and wood, in general, and what were called small tithes, were included in the plan of the noble Lord?—[Lord  Althorp
 Mr. Hardy  believed, that every Grand Juror throughout the country, was prepared to come forward to declare, that the beer shops were the most complete nuisances that could possibly exist. Men met there, not to obtain refreshment, but to concert schemes of plunder. They were nurseries of crime. Public houses afforded accommodation to travellers, beer shops could only encourage tippling. It was, supposed when the sale of Beer Act passed, that men would buy their beer as they did their bread and meat, and take it home and consume it, instead of which they went to these beer-shops to carouse and commit all kinds of excesses.
 Mr. Roebuck  was glad to hear the observations of the hon. member for Surrey regarding the Bill of the hon. Baronet, for he believed that many of the Members of that House had yet to learn the real
 268 l
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a petition from nearly 4,000 in Merthyr Tydvil, in favour of the Beer Shops. This petition was a very singular one—
 269 laughter
 Mr. Hume  held the same opinion: instead of restricting their licences, he would have them extended. The difficulties under which the beer-shop-keepers laboured should be removed, not added to. He was decidedly of opinion, that these shops had been of great service, for the people had been provided with good and cheap beer by means of them.
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that if each clergyman had only 300 l 282
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the noble Lord had treated his proposition so very fairly, he should certainly adopt the suggestion now made of omitting naval and military officers from his Motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in rising to submit to the House the motion of which he had given notice relative to sinecure offices, or offices executed by deputy, in naval, military, civil, or colonial service, he was anxious to guard himself against being misunderstood, or having a wrong interpretation put upon the motives by which he was actuated. He had, in the early part of the present Session, introduced two motions for the abolition of offices to
 293 294 l l l l l l l l 295 l l l l l l l 296 l l l l l l 297 l l l l l l l l l l l l Custos Brevium l l 298 l l; l l l l l 299
 Mr. Hume  then addressed the House with reference to Colonial appointments, most of which were served by deputy, and were thus sinecure offices. Besides this, no person in this country knew anything about even the vacancies in the Colonial Department till he heard of their being filled up, and most generally it turned out that the persons appointed were so totally unfit or unworthy, that, had sufficient time
 303
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation of the next Motion which he had to propose. The noble Lord opposite, had, on a former occasion, said, that as it was not delicate that his Majesty's Ministers should inquire into their own salaries and those of their colleagues, the duty should be delegated to a Committee, and that it should be the duty of Ministers to act with respect to the salaries as the Committee should suggest. Now, he wished to ask the noble Lord, whether there was any regulation by which all appointments should, in the same manner, be viewed as subject to qualification and alteration as to their duties and emoluments? If any such regulation had been adopted, his present Motion would have been unnecessary; but if not, he thought it was proper to mark the intention of the House to follow up the example which his Majesty's Ministers had shown with respect to their own salaries, and that individuals who held situations should hold them subject to such alterations as should be deemed expedient, as had been the case with respect to the Bishopric of Derry. He moved "That all offices filled up after this date, in any Department under the Crown, civil, military, naval, or colonial, shall be subject to such alterations as to duties, and to such deductions and alterations as to salary and
 304
 Mr. Hume  was happy to hear the statement of the noble Lord. He would just put one question to him, and if the answer were equally satisfactory, the Resolution should be readily withdrawn. This was with respect to the patent offices. Suppose one of the Judges was, by Act of Parliament, allowed a salary of 5,000 l
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson said,  if the power was now existing it was unnecessary; and, if not, he objected to giving such an arbitrary new power to the House. It would be impossible to say to what extent it might be carried. In either case he hoped his hon. friend would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose merely for the purpose of offering a suggestion to the noble Lord, which might be conveniently done at that stage of the discussion; it respected the lay impropriations. It appeared to him, that it would be desirable to give the landlord the power, not merely to compound with the lay impropriators, but to purchase them outright, and to free the land from the burthen for ever. In respect to the tithes payable to the clergy, it was necessary to preserve a permanent fund for their maintenance. In Scotland, upon the happy settlement of the question of tithes in that country, in the time of Charles 1st, it was provided, that the lay impropriators, called Titulars, might be compelled to sell the right to tithe, at a certain number of years' purchase of the ascertained value, whilst such a settlement was not permitted in respect to the tithe payable to the clergy. It would be well if the history of the settlement of the great question of tithe in Scotland were referred to and consulted on the present occasion. It had done more for Scotland than any other measure, or, perhaps, than all other means that had since been adopted for the good of that country. For nearly 200 years it had been in the power of the landholder, by having his tithes valued, to prevent a tax being levied for the future on his industry, and on the outlay of his capital, in improving the land. The plan was simple, and had been completely successful; the tithes in
 286
 Dr. Lushington  observed, that the litigation which had taken place for the last 150 years on the subject of tithes, justified the introduction of some measure like the present. The system had gone on from century to century; had become complicated by so many minute and difficult questions, that it was impossible for any one to expect that a plan could be devised by which the numberless points which had hitherto perplexed the subject should be reduced to one simple method. If any observations of his noble friend had excited his surprise, it was his remark, that the measure was one which was not calculated to excite a great sensation. It was a question in which almost every individual in the kingdom was interested. He was persuaded, that the estimates of his noble friend respecting the amount of the revenues of the clergy would turn out to be perfectly correct, and that they did not exceed 3,250,000 l 287
 Sir George Phillips  said, he did not want the beer-shops to be shut up, but only that persons should be confined to the purchase of the beer simply from the shops, and to carry it home, there to be drank.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought the permission of the noble Lord was like a  conge d'élire
 Sir Robert Peel : Then it was the noble Lord's plan, that if the tithes were now worth 100 bushels of wheat, the land
 285
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he was by no means averse from a general plan for the commutation of tithes on any principle which could be considered equitable to all parties whose interests were concerned, and he saw nothing in the principles of the noble Lord's measure which should make him oppose it. He could not, indeed, at once say, whether he should oppose or support the Bill of the noble Lord; for it frequently happened that a measure were a very different complexion, when stated in all its particulars, from that which it assumed on its first announcement. His experience had sufficiently convinced him of that fact, as well as of the fact, that the success of any such plan must depend entirely upon the details, which were not yet before the House. He, therefore, intended to reserve his opinions upon the subject until he should see the whole plan upon paper, when he should be able to say whether the scheme deserved to succeed, and whether it would be just in its operation with respect to the clergy. He had heard with great pleasure one remark of the hon. member for Middlesex, that an income of 300 l l l l 284
 Sir Robert Price  approved of the measure, but thought great difficulties would arise with respect to its details. All that could be done upon the subject, however, was to enter upon it with an earnest desire to conquer those difficulties if possible. One of the greatest of those difficulties would be to simplify the measure, and at the same time to do equal justice to all parties. Sensible as he was, however, of the great importance of the proposition, he was not disposed at present to dwell on the objections to it.
 Lord Althorp,  in reply, said, that the heads of the Church had certainly been communicated with upon the subject of this measure, but that he was not authorised to say whether it was their intention to give it their consent or to oppose it. His Majesty's Government felt, that they should not be justified in bringing forward such a measure without first communicating with the Bishops; but although that course had been taken, he was bound to observe that the Bishops were not in a situation to pronounce any opinion upon it, as it affected the beneficed and parochial clergy rather than them. The hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) had spoken of the propriety of equalizing tithes; but, however desirable the equalization of tithes might be, the hon. Member ought to have recollected, that it was an object which could not be accomplished without very great difficulty. The attention of the Government had been applied to this and to other Reforms in the Church, but, at present, they were unable to determine on the exact course they should pursue, or to give any pledge as to what should or should not be done. He admitted that there was great difficulty in the mode of collecting tithes, and fixing the amount to be remitted and he had therefore stated, that he intended to allow the valuators to enhance or lower the value during the last seven years, from five to ten per cent, as one mode of meeting that difficulty, but without of course, intending to say that his suggestion would obviate it altogether. But the subject was one fraught with so much difficulty, look at it how you would, that it would be presumption to hope that any measure of this description could be brought forward which would not be open to many and serious objections. To deal with the matter at all, the advantages and objections must be weighed one against the other, and the way in which the valuation was intended to be made was, he believed, likely to produce less dissatisfaction than any other that had hitherto suggested itself to his mind. The advisable course was first to make the valuation,
 292
 Lord Althorp,  with reference to the ob servations of the gallant Colonel, remarked, that in the first case to which he had alluded—that of Mr. Wyndham—the appointment was made before the Act was passed, and therefore was not affected by it; in the next—that of Mr. Sullivan, at Demerara—the office had been abolished by the present Administration; and as to Mr. Greville, that gentleman had held two offices—one of these had the salary paid in London; the Government, acting on the principle referred to by the hon. member for Middlesex, and on that of the Act in question, had stopped the payment of the salary. It was true that the gentleman had been absent from the personal discharge of the duties of the other office, but then he was absent on leave regularly obtained.
 Lord Althorp  said, that with respect to the substance of the Motion of the hon. Member, he had no objection to it. The principle indeed had not only been recognised in that House, but acted upon in a great many instances. Indeed in saying this, he must take the opportunity of observing, that several of the offices mentioned by the hon. Member as indicated in the Report made in I816, had been entirely abolished since that time. He could not at this moment follow the hon. Member through all the instances to which he had referred, but he would mention one or two. He was surprised at the reference to the office held by Lord Thurlow in the Bankruptcy-office, for in the Bill of the year before last it had been abolished. It was nearly the same with the case of one of the offices quoted from the Courts in Scotland, the office said to be held by Lord F. Campbell. That nobleman had been dead for a great number of years. He hoped, therefore, that the House would not think that all the offices referred to by the hon. Member yet remained in existence. Some few indeed remained, but most of those were to be abolished at the death of the present holders. As to the second Resolution which the hon. Member had read, if it were confined to civil and colonial offices, he would make no objection to it; and, as his noble friend behind him (Lord Ebrington) had given notice of a motion for a Committee to inquire into military offices, the hon. Member had perhaps better not include them in his Motion, the more especially as he believed that the Committee would not be opposed by the Government. He should, indeed, suggest to his noble friend to add Naval Offices to those respecting which he was about to move for a Committee of Inquiry.
 Lord Althorp  did not mean that the party should pay in kind, but a sum of money equal to the value of so many bushels of grain.
 Lord Althorp,  in answer, said, that it was quite true, he believed, that where-ever a composition for tithes had been made, it included the Poor-rates, and that it would be only just and right that the valuators should take them into their consideration hereafter, whenever a commutation was about to be made. It would be for the public benefit that the clergyman should have an interest in the Poor-rates, in order to ensure their due administration.
 Lord Althorp , in rising to submit to the House a measure for the Commutation of Tithes in England, observed, that he need not say that the subject of his Motion was one of great importance; at the same time, he felt that it would not be necessary for him to detain the House at any length by adducing arguments in favour of the general principle of the measure
 274 l l l l l l l l l l 275 276 277 278 279 280 281
 Lord Althorp  considered the inquiry desirable, and he would strongly support the appointment of the proposed Committee, though he did not go the length to which the hon. member for Ashton (Colonel Williams), was disposed to go. The hon. Gentleman said, that the original intention of the Legislature was, that beer should not be suffered to be drunk upon the premises. Now, that was a question of regulation; and he need hardly remind the House that a great deal of vexation arose from the manner in which in formations could be laid under such an Act. For instance, a man would purchase beer at one of these shops, and drink it with one foot inside the door and the other outside, and then he would lay
 272
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member must be aware the Judges' salaries were fixed by Act of Parliament.
 Lord Althorp  objected to this Motion, because he considered it not only unnecessary, but as calling into question the existent powers of Government, who, as it was, had power to make every deduction and modification they thought advisable; and he himself had acted upon this power in several important instances. The hon. Member's suggestion assumed, that Government had not that power with respect to offices now in existence.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should not object to the Motion. With regard to the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he would not pledge himself to its adoption, but he thought it worthy of consideration.
 Lord Sandon  confirmed the statement of the hon. member for Middlesex, as to the unfitness of many persons for the appointments which they received. Sir George Murray had stated, and from his connexion with a former Administration, he well knew, that many persons were sent out to Canada who were altogether unqualified for their situations. He hoped the suggestion of the hon. Member would be adopted.
 Lord Sandon  expressed a hope that no new valuation of the land would take place under the proposed plan of the noble Lord; for if that were to occur, the tithes would be raised in some places,
 290
 Mr. O'Connell  inquired whether the taxes on advertisements would be equalized in England and Ireland, and whether the drawbacks on soap exported to Ireland were to be taken away.
 Mr. O'Connell  was not surprised that what had fallen from the right hon. member for Tamworth relative to the property of Ireland should have excited the merriment of the House—[ No, no No, no 348 l l l l l s d l 349 l s d s d s d s d s d d pro re rata? s d l l l l 350
 Mr. O'Connell  said, all he had stated was, that the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of Ireland facetiously. Why, did the House forget the merriment that was created the moment the right hon. member for Tamworth mentioned the Property-tax and Ireland [ no, no no no 351
 Mr. Baring  said, that when the annual exposition of the financial condition of
 352 bonâ fide 353 quoad 354 355 bonâ fide l 356 l l 357 358 l l l maximum 359
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  was much pleased that a reduction in marine insurances was proposed—a measure the propriety of which he had long pressed on the notice of the noble Lord. At the same time he hoped the principle would be carried much further, which could safely be done without any injury whatever to the revenue. He should take the liberty of forwarding some documents to the noble Lord, which he was sure would satisfy his mind of the truth of what he stated. He thought, too, that the noble Lord should have equalised the Soap duty, and had he done so, he would have prevented a great deal of smuggling, and by the consequent saving he might have altogether removed the taxes upon houses. He wished such a course had been pursued, because he must say, that he was no admirer of partial reductions. The continuance of the House-duty was made the means of much abuse. Only the very day before the election for the borough of Sunderland, there were surcharges made upon all the householders there, who were so much alarmed, that there was great difficulty in getting them to excercise their elective franchise. He should have been glad to see the whole of the House duty repealed, especially with regard to the lower class of householders. There was another tax which he should have been glad to see reduced—he meant the duty upon fire insurances. If that had been reduced by one half, it would be a most extensive advantage to the public. He was glad that the duty upon shopmen
 360
 Sir. Thomas Freemantle  could not forbear expressing his wish, that when the noble Lord reduced the duty on marine insurances, he had reduced the duty on fire insurances, especially with respect to agricultural produce. The duty on fire insurances amounted to twice the sum paid for the insurance. The agricultural interest deserved some relief, and this would have been particularly useful, as anybody must be convinced, when it was recollected that agricultural produce, often lying at some distance from the house, was peculiarly open to depredation, and, as the unhappy instances of past years had proved, was often made the subject of depredation. This reduction was the more desirable, since that which had been said to take place with regard to marine insurances equally happened with regard to fire insurances; many policies were now, in consequence of the high rate of the duty here, effected in Paris upon houses in this country, all of which would be effected in this country, but for that circumstance. He should have been glad, too, to see the malt duty reduced, but as a Chancellor of the Exchequer always fully made up his mind before he came down to the House with the Budget, and as an humble individual like himself was not likely to be able to change the decision of the Government, he supposed he must look at the reduction as hopeless in this Session of Parliament. He agreed with the hon. member for Berkshire, in expressing his regret, that while above a million of taxes had been reduced, the agricultural interest had only been allowed the benefit of a paltry 30,000 l 364 l
 Mr. Wynn  must observe, that the indulgence requested was very unusual, and, he might say unprecedented; and, as he knew of no precedent precisely similar, he would recommend the adjournment of the debate upon the subject to search for precedents. The right hon. Gentleman concluded, by moving, as an Amendment, that the further debate on the subject be adjourned until Monday next.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the Committee which would have to try the Petition would not be bound by the Standing Order of the House, but by the provisions of the Act of Parliament; and must see that the hon. Member had complied with the latter. He was disposed to give his vote in favour of
 * 372
 Mr. Murray  contended, that no sufficient grounds had been shown why the Standing Order should not be enforced. If the House had hitherto observed the Standing Order, it should continue to do so.
 Mr. Charles Kemyss Tynte  was bound, in duty to his constituents and to the public, to call the attention of the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to a tax which was felt as most oppressive to the county which he had the honour to represent. He alluded to the Personal Estate Tax. He merely had to state that the county of Somerset paid 445 l s l l l
 Colonel Davies  would only trouble the Committee with a few observations. He wished, in the first instance, to notice what appeared to him to be an apparent and not a real saving in the military establishment of the country; 120,000 l l l 342
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  presented a similar petition from the inhabitants of Newtown, Montgomeryshire. The noble Lord said, that many remarks had been made in another place upon the observations he had felt it his duty to submit to the House when he presented a petition with a similar prayer to the present from a numerous body of his constituents; but he was sure the House would do him the justice to remember that on the occasion to which he referred he had made no personal allusion to any individual with reference to the Church Establishment in Wales. What he had then said (and he now repeated it) was, that the petitioners complained that the ecclesiastical appointments were generally conferred on individuals who were unacquainted with Wales, and many of whom were non-resident in that country, having benefices elsewhere. He made no charge against any individual, but against the system generally. He wished to add, that the appointments made by the Bishop of St. Asaph had been most proper appointments, and he was happy to hear that those of the Bishop of Bangor had given equal satisfaction.
 Mr. Robinson  said, it must be exceedingly consolatory to the country to know that the income of the last year had exceeded the expectations of the noble Lord opposite. But one observation arose upon it which he should like to see adopted. The noble Lord said, he had a surplus of above 500,000 l 361 l l l l 362
 Mr. Sinclair  felt persuaded, that if the present system was to be persevered in, his noble friend had carried reductions as far as was practicable, and had also evinced a sound discrimination in the selection of the taxes which he proposed to modify. But he was, nevertheless, persuaded, that the statement of that evening would be received throughout the country with feelings of disappointment and regret. The people expected, and were entitled to a far larger measure of relief than it was now intended to bestow. What would they say if this were to be the only result of that reform which they mainly owed to their own firmness? Of what consequence was it to the working or middling classes whether Gatton and Old Sarum, or Leeds and Manchester, were represented, or whether any places were represented at all, if their sufferings were not alleviated, and their grievances redressed? The feelings of the people could not be trifled with. It was the general opinion throughout the country that the National Debt was the root of all the national sufferings—and it could not be maintained much longer at its present amount. The hon. member for Essex had pointed out how the interest might have been reduced if a different system had been adopted thirty years ago; but the question was, what could be done now? He was persuaded that the only practicable course would be, to impose a tax on every species of property for reducing, in whole or in part, the principal of the Debt, and enabling the Government to take off the taxes, by which the interest of that Debt was defrayed. Unless the rich were prepared to make great sacrifices for the relief of the poor, he anticipated that the general discontent would reach its height, and be productive of convulsion—if not of revolution.
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, it was impossible for him, from his own personal information, to say whether these complaints were well-founded or not; but he saw most respectable names to this petition, and among them were the names of several of the clergy themselves, as well as that of Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, and so on.
 Mr. Wilbraham  presented a petition from Llangellan, and other parishes in the county of Merioneth, to which he wished to draw the attention of the House, because it went, in some measure, to contradict a statement made some time ago by a right reverend Prelate in another place. The petition complained that the most valuable livings were in the hands of non-residents, who while they pocketed from 150 l l
 Mr. Halcomb  rose to move to be allowed time to deposit a particular of his qualification to be returned as a Member of the House, as required by a standing order of this House, dated 21st November, 1717, with the proper officer, till Monday next. He stated that having already complied substantially with the Standing Order, by handing in a full particular of his qualification to the clerk on taking his seat, he trusted the House would extend its indulgence to him for a single day. His failure to furnish the required document on the petition against him was entirely owing to misconception and accident. The fifteen days expired on the day before Good Friday; and as it was not expected that the House would sit upon that day, he had been thrown off his guard, and having received a sudden and pressing summons to go to Warwick, on the Wednesday he left town, and the matter escaped his memory. In conclusion he again threw himself on the indulgence of the House, to deal with him as it might see fit. He wished to be allowed to deliver a paper containing his qualification to the Clerk of the House on Monday.
 Mr. Halcomb  was sorry that the Window-tax had not been repealed, because it operated to produce a bad system of building, and injured the health and the comfort of all classes of people. A distinction was now made between the House and Window duty, but in effect they were the same. He thought there ought to be a new calculation of the duty, and that whatever was taken ought to be taken as a duty on houses, and should be calculated on their rental.
 Mr. Hume  could not deny that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as far as he had gone, had done well; but he only regretted that the noble Lord had not gone further. The noble Lord might have proceeded on the principle which had guided him in reducing the duty upon
 340 s d 341 l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, it would appear from all he had heard on the subject, as if it would be impossible that his Motion should be brought forward to-night without the greatest disadvantage and inconvenience being incurred and without exciting feelings that, if he persevered in the Motion, it would be calculated to embarrass the Government. For the purpose of at once freeing himself from an imputation which he felt he did not deserve, he should state in the outset that he was willing to postpone his motion. At the same time he felt bound to state, that it was not above a fortnight since the subject had been mentioned with a view to fixing the period for its introduction to the House, and he had heard nothing of public business interfering with his motion of to-night until yesterday, and then it appeared, according to the statement made to him, that Ministers wanted this evening for purposes connected with supply, which, unless they could carry into effect, the greatest possible inconvenience and disadvantage would be occasioned to the public service; and indeed the matter had been stated to him so strongly as almost to induce him to think that scarcely could the public payments be made if to-night were refused the Ministers for supply. Now, however, he found that the noble Lord proposed not that the House should give up the night to supply, but to the consideration of the Budget. He asked the noble Lord, if he ever knew of such a motion as that which he now proposed, to make being brought on after one night's notice, to the interruption of a proposition long fixed for discussion? On this point he could not help going back to the very similar manner in which several other motions of the same description with his own had been put off by the Government, particularly that of the hon. member for Birmingham, and that of the hon. member for Lincolnshire, relative to the repeal of the Malt-tax, which had been coolly put off by some member of the Government moving as an Amendment, that the House should proceed to discuss some matter relative to Ireland. It was a most extraordinary
 325
 Mr. Philip Howard  contended, that in the case of the Marylebone Election, the House had, but a few days ago, decided against an extension of the time. He had heard nothing to convince him that the two cases were not, as nearly as possible, similar. The hon. member for Marylebone might well complain of being harshly treated, if this indulgence were granted at the suit of the member for Dover, which, in like circumstances, was denied to him, when the House, by a large majority, came to the resolution of abiding by its own standing order. He (Mr. Howard) moreover, thought, that they would be doing a great injustice to the petitioners, who were not present to defend themselves, if further time were granted in the present instance. Every consideration of consistency and of equity compelled him to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, that, in common, he had no doubt with many Gentlemen who had heard him, he felt thankful to the noble Lord for the reduction which he proposed in the different taxes of the country; but there was one tax with regard to which he felt a good deal of anxiety, as he had presented several Petitions respecting it, and he was in hopes that some reduction might have been made in its amount; he meant the Malt-duty. The noble Lord said very truly, that it would be impossible to take off a tax amounting to upwards of 4,000,000 l l
 Mr. Slaney  hoped that the Government would continue to pursue the same course as that which they had now adopted. If they did this, and if the people saw that there really was a sincere wish to improve their condition, they would wait with patience, and enable the Government, consistently with good faith to the public creditor, to reduce the burthens of the country. There was one subject, with respect to which he wished to make one observation—it was that of the complaints about the inequality of the assessments upon large houses. The statements made on this subject were, he believed, founded in a great mistake. The statement was founded on the amount expended in the building and ornamenting of these houses, and not upon their real value, or the sum for which they could be let. A house in Fleet-street, one fourth of the size of one of these large houses in a distant part of the country, was, in fact, worth much more than such a house, and would probably let for four times as much, although it had not cost near so much in building and ornamenting it. The hon. member for Worcester, whose observations had induced him to make this remark, seemed to assent to the principle he had thus stated, and of its truth he was perfectly convinced. There was one point to which he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord and of the House. The noble Lord had reduced the tax upon porters and shopmen, but he feared that, in the words in which that reduction was effected, working maltsters, or those who superintended the buildings where malt was made, would not be deemed to be included. He thought that the reduction ought to be distinctly extended to them, since not only did the state of the trade demand some relief, but the fact ought to be remembered that they were persons working upon an article that was itself afterwards made the subject of heavy taxation. If this was done, he could assure the noble Lord that the reduction would be received with great gratitude by the maltsters throughout the country. He was happy to be able to
 363
 Mr. Slaney  said, that in this country the humbler classes laboured under the disadvantage
 369
 Mr. Ewart  complained of the duty on Almanacks. The whole produce of that duty did not amount to more than 27,000 l
 The Speaker  said, that the non-compliance with the Standing Order was a question entirely between that House and the sitting Member. The petition under all circumstances, must go before the Commit" tee, and they would have to decide on the allegations made in it. It was for the Committee to decide on the question of qualification or no qualification. If the petitioners should think themselves prejudiced in any way by the Standing Order not having been complied with, they could appeal to that House, who would deal with the infraction of the Order as they should think fit.
 Mr. Jervis  supported the petition for Welch Church Reform, but was convinced that no imputation could he cast upon either of the right reverend Prelates named by his noble colleague.
 Mr. Jervis  was free to admit, that there was one great cause of complaint affecting the Welch Church, and which, he regretted to say, was equally applicable to the Church throughout this kingdom—namely, absenteeism and plurality of livings. There was one complaint, however, peculiarly applicable to the Welch Church, which he could not but think must he founded in justice—the want of knowledge of the Welch language in the clergy, which ought, undoubtedly, to be removed. He thought that to this cause was to be attributed the number of dissenters to be found in Wales. The dissenting churches in that Principality were actually as two to one of the Established Churches.
 Sir Robert Peel : What is the present amount of revenue from advertisements?
 Sir Robert Peel  protested against the unfairness of the hon. and learned Member representing those persons who had occasion to speak of Ireland, as speaking of that country in a tone of derision and insult. It was quite clear that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not speaking for the audience he was addressing, but was directing his observations elsewhere. When he spoke of the introduction of a Property-tax into England, and of the difficulty of enforcing it in Ireland, he appealed to the House whether he had used or insinuated one disrespectful expression towards that country? He ought to be, and certainly would be, the last man in that House to do so. It would be bad taste in any man to taunt Ireland with her poverty or her sufferings; but it was worse taste still to attribute to any hon. Member, because Gentlemen happened to smile in the progress of debate, a desire to (aunt or insult Ireland or Irish feelings. He was glad he had this opportunity of setting himself right on the subject; and he would venture to assure the hon. and learned Member, that such a course of proceeding was altogether unworthy of his talents and acquirements, and ought not to be persevered in. Besides, it was likely he was afraid to be most mischievous to represent to the people of Ireland, that Englishmen were anxious to ridicule and insult them, when nothing could be further from the fact.
 Sir Robert Peel  agreed in the remark of the noble Lord that the duties of a Chancellor of the Exchequer were very unpopular, and that it was impossible to satisfy the hopes of all parties who claimed a reduction of taxation. The observation of the noble Lord was perfectly just, and those who filled the situation which the noble Lord now filled had heretofore generally found their opponents more disposed to aggravate the unpopularity by clamour against taxation than, to lessen it by acquiescing
 343 l l l l l l l 344 priori 345 346 bonâ fide bonâ fide
 Sir Samuel Whalley  suggested, that a tax should be imposed on the public funds, and further reductions made in the taxes which pressed upon industry. The reductions, proposed by the noble Lord would not meet the wishes of the country, or afford that relief to the trading portion of the community which the noble Lord and the right hon. member for Tamworth anticipated; and he earnestly entreated the noble Lord, if he wished to give satisfaction to the people, to review that part of his plan which related to the House and Window-duty. He concurred with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that the noble Lord's arrangement upon that point would open the door to fraud; but he had another objection to it, which was, that it would afford no relief to the poor suffering shopkeepers, but would benefit exclusively what he might call the aristocracy of trade. The humble shopkeeper, who had no range of show-rooms, would derive no relief from the proposed remission. If the noble Lord would not totally repeal these duties, it would be much better, rather than adopt the plan which the noble Lord had proposed, to exempt totally from the Window-tax all houses rated below a certain amount—say 20 l l l
 Sir Walkin Williams Wynn  agreed to
 323
 Sir. Walkin Williams Wynn  said, that as to the Incumbents he knew that in the parishes with which he was acquainted the clergy now all understood the Welch language, and he did not believe that any of them were entirely ignorant of the Welch language, notwithstanding the many complaints that had been made of them.
 Lord Althorp : The whole revenue from advertisements now amounts to 150,000 l l 334 s d s s d s s d s s s l l l s s d s d s s s d s l 335 l l 336 s l l l l l 337 ad valorem l l l l l s 338 s s s l
 Lord Althorp  said, that nothing but a consideration of what was due to the public service induced him to pursue the present course. It was very true, that his right hon. friend the Secretary to the Treasury had told the hon. Gentleman that the Ordnance Estimates were very pressing; and his right him friend thought that they might be brought forward to night. It was, however, found subsequently that they might be postponed, and therefore be had proposed to avail himself of this evening to bring forward his financial statement. He would frankly tell the hon. Gentleman, that he thought it desirable that the financial statement should be heard before the hon. Gentleman's member was gone into, and his proposition was made with that view. He was glad the hon. Gentleman permitted him to make his statement before the motion was brought forward. So far as he himself was concerned, he would be ready to give the hon. Gentleman every possible facility for bringing on the question on Monday next. He would now move the Order of the Day for going into a Committee of Supply.
 Lord Althorp  rose, and spoke as follows: Sir, in calling the attention of the Committee to the statements which I have to make of the financial condition of the country, I shall take the liberty, in performing this part of my duty, of first directing the attention of the Committee to those reductions in the various departments of the State which have at various times and on previous occasions been brought under the notice of the House, as an evidence of our endeavours to reduce taxation. In trespassing upon the attention of the Committee with this statement, I think that I act fairly and justly towards the Administration of which I am a Member, because when we entered upon office, we did it with a pledge to apply ourselves to introduce economy to the utmost extent in our power; and on this, the first occasion of bringing any financial statement before a Reformed Parliament, I think it is right that I should state what progress has been made in redeeming that pledge. I shall, therefore, state the number of places and offices which we have successively abolished and the amount of salary which has been reduced, in order to show the House that we have applied ourselves to effect the object we promised and that we have succeeded in reducing to a considerable extent the expenditure of the country. The total number of places abolished by the present Administration is 1,387; and the total amount of salary done away is 231,406 l l l l l l l l 327 l l l s l l l l l l l l l 328 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 329 l l l l l l l l l l l l 330 l l l l l 331 l l 332 l l l 333 s d s d s s d s
 Lord Althorp,  before moving the Order of the Day for the House going into a Committee of Supply, wished to ask the hon. member opposite (Mr. Matthias Attwood) if he intended to persist in bringing forward his motion set down for that day?
 324
 Lord Althorp : I will not at present answer the hon. Member's question; but I do think that there ought not to be a lower duty in Ireland than in England. I will now recapitulate to the House the particulars of the different taxes which I intend to reduce: they are these:—
 Lord Althorp  said, that he should not detain the House for any length of time; but he wished to make a few observations in answer to the remarks which had been made by different Gentlemen. The mode in which the statement he had made had been received by the House was most gratifying to him. He was quite aware from the first, that Gentlemen would differ from him on some of the topics which he had introduced; but the general mode in which his statement had been received, was, he repeated, most gratifying. He should begin his observations with an answer to a question put by the hon. Gentleman near him, as to the maltsters, or persons employed in superintending the making of malt. It seemed to him that there could be no doubt that such persons would come within the description of shopmen or other persons, who were now no longer to be made the subject of taxation. The hon. member for Middlesex seemed to think that the arrangement with respect to advertisements was not what it should be; he had said, that the duty ought to have been reduced in the first instance to a fixed sum. He did not think that the difference between them was considerable, and he believed that the arrangement, as it now stood, would be a great relief to advertisers. It had been said, that the reductions
 365 l l 366 several Members reduce it one half! they now pay 200 per cent! l 367
 Lord Althorp  said, it was perhaps not impossible that some alteration could be effected which would meet the views of the noble Lord opposite, at least so far as the smaller Stamp duties were concerned.
 Lord Sandon  regretted that some of the present Stamp duties which were found to be highly inconvenient in their operation, and towards certain classes of trades people most unjust and oppressive, had not been removed. He therefore desired to call the attention of the noble Lord the Chancellor
 368
 Mr. Attwood  rose to bring forward a Motion relative to the state of the country. He thanked the noble Lord for his courtesy in not moving the Order of the Day, and in allowing him to proceed. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he had frequently felt it to be his duty to urge upon the House the propriety of an inquiry into the state of prosperity or otherwise of the middle and lower classes, and particularly to ascertain in what manner their interests were affected by that monetary system which, since the end of the war, it had been attempted to establish. Hitherto he had made these efforts in vain. That House had not been induced by any representations of his, nor by the increasing disasters of the last eighteen years, nor by the demands of the people, to direct its attention to the real state of the country, and the effect which our monetary system had upon all the great interests of the people. He knew not that he could now recommend this inquiry to the House by any arguments or statements which he had not before submitted to its consideration; but there was this to be said in favour of the same arguments and the same statements, that they brought down with them the testimony of time and experience, showing the increasing calamities which he had predicted, and confirming all that he had said, by the testimony of time and experience against the mischievous policy, the vain delusions, and the mistaken theories by which he had been opposed. And those individuals by whom he had been before opposed, should they come forward again to oppose him to-night, would at least be expected to show by experience that time had proved their arguments to have been correct, and that they had not
 385 386 387 388 l l l l 389 l l l l l l 390 l l l l l l l 391 l l l 392 l 393 394 l l 395 396 397 l 398 399 400 401 402 403 404 405 l l l 406 407 408
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could assure the House, that it was with great pleasure he had given way to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Forster), whose speech could not have failed to produce a great effect upon the House, coming, as it did, from one practically engaged in the banking and commercial affairs of this country. He was not surprised that the hon. member for Knaresborough should complain of the manner in which the Motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven had been met; for he seemed, by some happy turn of mind, to imagine, that he could engraft on a Motion, introduced distinctly and avowedly for one purpose, another purpose completely and entirely different; and that he would have an opportunity, by voting for the Committee of the hon. Gentleman, of making that Committee subservient to promote his own plan. After the Amendment of his noble friend, it was impossible that the House could consider that any other question was before it than whether it should affirm or negative a departure from the standard of value as
 445 446 l l l l l s s d
 Mr. Lamb  said, that with regard to the first petitioner, the lad Barber, he thought his petition came before the House in a very questionable shape. He made no complaints as to his own sentence, nor offered anything in mitigation, but merely complained that certain other parties violated the law, as the petitioner thought, with impunity. If the enactment here referred to, however, were enforced, it would be far more tyrannical than that under which the lad was punished. Besides he did not consider the words of the Act referable to the lending of papers in the case alluded to by the petitioner. With regard to Mr. Carlile, there was enough to show that there were ample grounds for his prosecution, and punishment, without any reference to his former conduct. What was his offence? What had he done? Why, at a time when fires were blazing in every part of the kingdom, he wrote an exciting address to the insurgents. For this offence he had been tried by the laws of his country. An honest Jury found him guilty, and he saw no reason for any interference on the part of the Crown. He must however before sitting down, deprecate in the strongest manner the terms in which the member for Bath had spoken of the Recorder of London, which appeared to him highly improper in a Member of that House. As far as he could discern, the Recorder had discharged his duty with propriety. With regard to the punishment inflicted on Mr. Carlile, it was very severe, but not more severe than his offence deserved. As to his being confined beyond the term of his imprisonment for want of sureties, he thought the hon. Member was wrong. If it were the case, under the alleged circumstances, a refusal to depart from the words of the sentence would certainly amount to imprisonment for life. However, into that part, he would make some inquiry, though he did not say there was any ground for the exercise of the Royal Prerogative.
 Mr. Forster , as a country banker, begged leave to reject the indulgence proposed for the class to which he belonged by the hon. member for Knaresborough, of being allowed to tender Bank of England paper in payment of their notes, instead of gold. He knew that the sure way to create an avidity for gold was to place an impediment in the way of obtaining it. A feeling of pride, too, would be apt to deter him from issuing notes which were not convertible into gold at the will of the holder. The information he had acquired as to the opinions of the great mass of the people—the operative classes—led him to think that their opinions were not in accordance with the views of the hon. member for Whitehaven. These people could not be expected to be great proficients in the science of political economy; but experience—painful experience—induced them to assent to what he believed to be an acknowledged principle of that science,—namely, that the rise in prices which was caused by a depreciation of money operated with greater rapidity on commodities than on labour. Thus they, the labouring classes, always suffered by a transition from low to high prices. If any hon. Gentleman would take the trouble to refer to the newspapers, the pamphlets, and the ballads—those indicators of popular sentiment—in circulation during the period of the war and the Bank Restriction Act, he would find them to abound with complaints on this head. They whose occupation it was to dilate upon the grievances of the people in that day, ascribed their
 442 l 443 444
 Mr. Grote  rose immediately, as he said, to second it. He never rose with greater pleasure than for this purpose, for nothing could have been proposed in which he more heartily concurred. Nothing could result from the inquiry moved by the hon. member for Whitehaven, but partial statements and crude opinions. Nobody felt a stronger sense than he did of the obligations of the House, in every practicable way, to mitigate distress; but that solemn subject; ought not to be made the cloak or the stalking-horse for bringing forward peculiar and individual theories. If the Committee were appointed, the first question for investigation must be, Does this general and unprecedented distress exist? He (Mr. G.), for one, entirely denied it. Before any satisfactory answer could be given to it, the cumbrous details
 417 tables d'hôte 418 Parliamentary l l 419 l 420 421 l l l l l
 Mr. Richards  would not attempt to follow the hon. member for Oldham through his amusing, but somewhat discursive speech, nor would he go into an examination of his opinions; but there were two of them which he could not pass entirely unnoticed;—one was, that we should no longer use paper money—another that we should enter into what he called an equitable adjustment with the public creditor. The first satisfied him that the hon. Member did not understand the nature and effects of paper money; the other would inevitably lead to the destruction of public credit, and to confiscation and plunder, revolution and blood. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) in replying to the hon. member for Whitehaven, implied that similar dreadful consequences
 433 434 435 Call of Question 436 437 You make me strange, Even to the disposition that I owe. When now I think you can behold such sights, And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks. When mine are blanched with fear. 438 439 440 l l l l l 441 Nemo tenetur ad impossibile
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a Petition from a boy seventeen years old who had been confined for selling unstamped papers. The petitioner acknowledged that he had broken the law, but asserted that there were daily violations of the law with reference to the Stamp Duties, committed by publicans and others with the most perfect impunity, though the latter offences were such as did much greater harm to the revenue than what he had done. The petitioner alluded to the 29th George 3rd, by which any person lending a newspaper is liable to the penalty of 5 l 382 l l
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  wished to ask a question relative to our foreign policy. It was well known, that for several years past Russia had coveted the possession of Constantinople. The public had heard a great number of alarming rumours during the last week which gave them reason to believe that Constantinople was already in the possession of the Russians. He wished
 384
 Mr. Cobbett  spoke to the following effect:—Before I speak on the Motion before the House, I shall beg leave to allude to what fell from the hon. Member for the City, who is one of my Representatives. The hon. Member took much pains to show that all the Acts of Parliament relative to altering the value of money, and about issuing the one-pound notes, and preventing the issue of them, of which the hon. member for Whitehaven spoke at such length—had no effect at all. That they neither raised nor lowered prices, and were of no consequence. The hon. Member said something about supply and demand regulating the quantity of money, and made it out that the Acts of Parliament had no effect at all. But I remember soon after the passing of the celebrated Bill of the very celebrated Baronet on my right hand, that prices fell so low that the Parliament made haste to pass a Bill to put a stop to it. That Bill had hardly passed when prices rose again, and continued to rise till the system came to an end in 1825 and 1826. Then the Bill was passed to put a stop to the issue of one and two pound notes, and prices fell and continued to fall. At that time I presented a petition to this House. I highly approved of the return to payment in the King's coin, and of absolutely putting an end to the dirty, infamous paper money; but I besought the House, if it passed that Bill, to reduce the expenses of the country, and I told the House that if it did pass the Bill and did not reduce taxation, it would, as sure as fire burns, bring such ruin on this country as no state
 426 l l 427 428 l 429 l l l l l l l l l l 430 Marks of disapprobation l l l l James Graham l l 431 l employés l ad captandum vulgus l 432 l l l
 Lord Althorp  spoke as follows:—I do not differ. Sir, from the hon. Gentleman in the view he takes of the great importance of this question, nor do I differ from him in thinking that it is desirable that it
 409 410 411 l 412 l l Mr. Attwood said something across the table 413 414 Mr. Cobbett said something across the table 415 416
 Lord Althorp  said, he knew nothing of Constantinople being in the possession of the Russians, and the negotiations on the subject alluded to were not in such a state that he could say anything on the subject. Indeed, it would be highly improper in him were he to take any means of gratifying the hon. Member.
 Mr. Attwood  complained that the noble Lord's speech of the night before was totally inapplicable to his Motion, which was for an inquiry into the state of the country, to see how far its evils had been brought about by our monetary system. The noble Lord had, however, spoken of his Motion as if it were a Motion for a Committee to alter the standard of value. The noble Lord might substitute any Amendment he pleased for the Motion; but he had a right to complain that the arguments urged by the noble Lord were not directed against anything he had said. He could scarcely believe, that the noble Lord could so have misinterpreted his speech, but certainly the version given by the noble Lord of his speech was altogether different from that he had the honour to deliver. The noble Lord's arguments were all directed against depreciation, and the noble Lord used these arguments as if he had proposed depreciation. He had made no such proposition. He had urged the House of Commons to inquire into the condition of the country, and what had been the effects of the monetary system as it now stands? His proposition was, to inquire if they did not possess some means of relieving that condition without committing injustice in violating the faith pledged to the public creditor. He did not suppose the noble Lord meant to commit an act of injustice; but he had, by his mode of
 467
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, that he should not do his duty if he contented himself with giving a silent vote upon a subject of such importance as the present. If the Motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven succeeded, more injury would be done to the country at large than by any other expedient that could be thought of. The result of it would lead at once to a depreciation of the most alarming kind, and he did not think the condition of the country rendered so desperate an expedient justifiable. He would not go over the ground his right hon. friend had travelled last night;
 481 s d s d 482 l l 483
 Mr. Cayley  solicited the indulgence of the House, as he had never before trespassed on its attention. The hon. Member who had just sat down had said, that the landlords had not suffered as greatly as the other classes of the community; and he had given as a proof of that their unpaid rents and untenanted parishes. Then the hon. Member had said, that every interest now looked for protection through combination. Why, was not that a proof that this measure had been too long resisted? The House of Commons had been repeatedly called upon to go thoroughly into the subject of the Motion of his hon. friend the member for Whitehaven, and it had refused to do so until the country had ceased to consult it for general protection. But the hon. Member had said the landlords had exacted their bond even to the letter. Was that the case? Assuredly not. The landlords, instead of having exacted their bond, had lowered their rents from thirty to fifty per cent. If he were not mistaken the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had stated to him that he had reduced his rents forty-five per cent. In his opinion the landowners had suffered more than the other classes. Many men in humble circumstances had in the time of war saved 60 l l l l 487 s s s 488 s s cœleris paribus s s s s 489 490 l l 491 l l l s l l l l 492 493 494
 Mr. Baring  felt justified, no less by the frequent occasions in which his opinions relating to the subject of Currency, and banking had been canvassed, than by the magnitude and immense importance of the question before the House, to request its attention for a very short period. The main, indeed the sole, question on which the opinion of the House was to be expressed was, whether it would be justified in concurring in an arbitrary departure from the existing standard of the country? This was the abstract question, divested of ail those shades in which its originators sought to envelop it, on which the House would have to decide, and consequently would constitute the topic to which he meant to apply his observations. Of the importance of the subject, or of the suspense with which the decision of the House was awaited by the country, he need say nothing. Every individual
 495 en masse 496 s d 497 498 Thomas Attwood l l l 499 l revocare gradum l 500 501 What a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive. 502 l s s s s s s s s l l l s 503 504 Mr. M. Attwood laughed 505 506
 Mr. Baring : One word in explanation. I have always contended, that, on the adoption of a gold and silver standard, it must be so regulated as not to lower the general value of the pound sterling.
 Mr. Henry Handley  presented a Petition from a parish in the county of Lincoln for a reduction in the duties on Insurance of farming-stock. He felt bitterly disappointed that the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer had not taken into consideration the circumstances of the agricultural interest, and relieved it as well as the mercantile interest of the article of insurance duties. Nothing would tend more to the suppression of incendiarism than an alteration in this point. He had a motion on the subject, but trusted, that before the time fixed for bringing it on, the noble Lord would take the matter into his favourable consideration.
 Mr. Fryer  said, that although he did not agree with the hon. member for Whitehaven in his views with regard to the alteration of the currency, yet he could not avoid denying the correctness of the statements of the right hon. the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, who attempted to persuade the House that there was no distress in the country. At Wolverhampton and at Bilston the Poor-rates were nearly doubled within the last two years; and yet there were not in Great Britain two places more stable in the property of the manufacturers. How did the right hon. Gentleman account for that? He knew the state of those places well. He knew that the manufacturers were dreadfully distressed. The industrious classes might be distressed either through a want of employment or through a want of sufficient food procured by that employment. And that was the case in those districts. It was stated by the Poor-law Commission that the affairs of those parishes were well managed. There was no disputing that; and yet the Poor-rates were increasing. How did the right hon. Gentleman account for that? How could it be accounted for but by the general distress of the country? And he said that all the adjoining parishes which were connected with manufactures were in the same state. Although the iron trade had risen a little, it had not risen to a remunerating price. This was owing to the restriction of the trade of the country. If men were employed to-day, why should they not be employed to-morrow?
 484 485 486 multis utile bellum
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the noble lord (Lord Althorp) seemed determined to take off no taxes by which the great bulk of the population could be relieved. There were not fewer than 300 Members in that House who came in under a pledge to vote for the repeal of the malt, the hop, the soap duties, and the duty on newspapers. He was quite astonished to find that an hon. Member asserted that the people of England expected nothing more than the Budget proposed by the noble Lord. They expected a great deal more. They expected the total repeal of the Maltduty. Barley was but 20 s s d s
 Mr. Cobbett : It was not more in the county of Norfolk last week. The additional twenty shillings in the price of the malt was occasioned by the excise regulations, which subjected the maltsters to much unnecessary expense, inconvenience, and difficulty. The drink of the whole people was produced from this article, and they expected that the duty would be taken off. They would then have their quarter of malt for 20 s s s 466
 Sir H. Willoughby  was about to address the House on a tedious subject, but he would endeavour to make his observations as brief as possible. Notwithstanding the weight which he attached to the opinions of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he must say that it was his intention to vote for the inquiry proposed by the hon. member for Whitehaven. He should do so because he thought the state of the country demanded that inquiry, and not because he had any dishonest design with reference to the currency. He, however, should be prepared to enter into a consideration of the monetary system; but he could assure the noble Lord, with as great a horror of spoliation and confiscation as any man could have. It was not his intention to go into ranch argument or lengthened detail to show the existence or extent of distress in the country; that part of the question lay in a nut-shell. The population at present was 25,000,000; and he found that they were not so well fed or so well clothed; that they did not possess so many of the necessaries as heretofore the people of this country had possessed. That was enough to justify any man in desiring and promoting inquiry into the state of the country. The increasing amount of the Poor-rates, averaging 62,000,000 l 470 471 l s d l s d l s d l s d 472 l l l 473 s s 474
 Sir Robert Peel : Although, Sir, I believe that I shall agree with my hon. friend (Mr. Baring) in the practical conclusion to which I shall come, and the vote I shall give on the present question, yet he propounded, in the course of his speech, some doctrines which excite in my mind so much
 507 l l l l l l l l l l 508 509
 Sir Robert Peel : Then my hon. friend must take the present market-price of silver, and not the old Mint price, for the standard. The market-price of silver is now, I believe, 4 s d s d 510 l s l l l 511 512 Mulcentemque Tigres, et agentem carmine quercus. 513 514 No, no! l l l s d s 515 s s Parliamentary Debates 516 pro tanto 517 No! 518 519 l l l 520 l l 521 l 522 523 Ordonnances 524 525
 Mr. Clay  said, he had but a few observations to make on this subject, which, however, was one of considerable importance. He wished to remove the apprehensions and dissipate the delusion which prevailed upon the subject. He thought the hon. member for the City of London (Mr. Grote) and the right hon. member for Manchester (Mr. P. Thomson) had in their speeches last night completely set aside the clamour as to the great distress of the country. One topic, however, was not sufficiently adverted to. He had heard much vague declamation, but no attempt to connect the existence of distress with the resumption of cash payments. The opponents of the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Attwood) had left nothing else with which to grapple. It was assumed that the Act of 1819 narrowed the currency, and therefore reduced prices; but no proof whatever had been offered to support such an hypothesis as had been advanced by the supporters of this Motion. He would for the present, admit that the reduction of the circulating medium might be made a fair ground of argument; but, supposing it to be established, still it would be necessary to show, that the depreciation in the price of commodities of all sorts was such as would lead to the distressed state of the country. He could show, in the first place, that the distress was not so great as had been stated; that the issue of currency was not greatly diminished; and that if it had been diminished, the diminution was far less than was usually supposed. He thought the measure of 1819 was a wise and wholesome one; and he would not consent on this occasion to alter the state of our monetary system. The reduction in prices was trifling; but, trifling or not, it was not caused by the resumption of cash payments. Quite the reverse, as he would be able to show from the most irresistible evidence. The maximum of the Bank circulation was in 1817, when it reached to 29,543,780 l l l l l l l 475 l 
 
 COUNTRY BANK CIRCULATION. 
 1818 assumed as 100. l s d 
 1819 decrease 1 15 0 per cent from 1818 
 1820 decrease 5 18 10 per cent from 1818 
 1821 decrease 6 19 0 per cent from 1818 
 1992 decrease 11 13 1 per cent from 1818 
 1823 decrease 11 18 0 per cent from 1818 
 1824 decrease 4 11 9 per cent from 1818 
 1825 increase 1 5 6 per cent on 1818 l l l l l l l 476 l l l l l l l l l l l l 477 l l l l l 478 l l l l l l 
 
 In the last three months of 1825 £2,477,197 0 
 1826 1,668,309 0 
 1827 1,558,215 10 
 1828 2,705,818 10 
 1829 2,619,557 0 
 1830 l,940,052 0 
 £12,969,149 0 
 AMOUNT OF BULLION AND COIN IN THE BANK. 
 in 1826 £ 5,559,150 0 
 1827 10,359,000 0 
 1828 9,998,125 0 
 1829 7,008,275 0 
 1830 10,252,575 0 l l l l l l l 479 l 480
 Lord Althorp  complained of the unusual conduct of the hon. Member, who certainly had not trespassed upon the Orders of the House, because the motion for reading the Order of the Day was entirely a new Motion but he certainly had trespassed upon its usages in making a second speech upon that occasion, while he reserved himself in his reply to refute the opinions of his right hon. friend, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, and his other opponents. The hon. Member had spoken for three hours last night, and to-night he had spoken again. The hon. Member said he had misrepresented him, and the hon. Member could not suppose that he had heard the hon. Member's arguments, but the hon. Member heard his reply last night, and did not then contradict it. The tendency of all the hon. Member's argu-
 468 469
 Lord Althorp  rose to make an Explanation as to the expression he had made use of last night, that he, as an honest man, could not consent to the Motion. The hon. Gentleman thought that he meant to imply by that, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Attwood) was a dishonest man. He had no intention to apply the words in that sense, and could not have, for he must have applied them to many of his personal friends who supported the Motion. He should have considered himself acting as a dishonest man if he had not opposed the Motion, whether he referred to the former opinions he had delivered, or to the public situation he held. He was surprised that the hon. Member should for one moment have supposed that he meant to imply anything dishonest on his part in bringing forward his Motion.
 Lord Althorp : Barley is more than 20 s
 Lord Althorp  observed, that there would have been a difficulty in reducing the duty on insurances of farming stock separately from that on farming buildings, &c.; and if he had proposed a reduction of all insurance duties, a deficiency would be
 465
 Lord Althorp  put it to the Members, whether, after so many hon. Members had spoken, it was desirable further to adjourn the debate?
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, he was anxious to say a few words on the subject of the debate. When he had first heard the Motion introduced, although favourable to the principle of inquiry into the state of the country, he still was a little jealous of the real objects which the mover had in view, differing, as he did, in opinions upon other topics with the hon. member for Whitehaven; but, as the debate proceeded, his doubts had been removed, and he now felt confident that he should best discharge his duty by voting for the Motion. This could not be looked upon as a party question. On former occasions, indeed, when a Ministry had been for some time settled in office, and consequently responsible to a great extent for the state of the country, a Motion for a General Inquiry was not only a usual, but a fair course, in order to try their stability. But this Motion could not be looked upon in such a point of view, because the hon. member
 549 550 l * * † Ibid. p. 489. ‡ Hansard (new series) xxv. p. 109. § Hansard, xl. 743. ║ Ibid, (new series) viii. p. 264. 551 552 * * 553 l l
 Mr. Strutt , although he acknowledged that there was considerable distress in the country, was nevertheless persuaded that the statements which had been made
 554 555
 Mr. Robinson  put it to the House in what situation the question would be left if the Amendment of the noble Lord was carried, and the Motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven negatived? Was it not desirable that the question should be decided, not evaded? Yet, in that case, they would be just where they were. All their time would have been wasted—all the talents of the present House, and all the experience of past Parliaments, would have been wasted, without one practical or beneficial result. He deprecated that so much, that he must trespass on the House for a few minutes. For his part, he could not discover any great difference between the opinions of the noble Lord and of the hon. member for Whitehaven, as explained by the latter last night. He thought he understood the noble Lord to say, that he had no objection to an inquiry, provided the House, in the first instance, affirmed his Amendment. In his opinion, there was nothing so puerile as to debate on the fact whether or not there was any distress in the country. If the statements of that distress had been exaggerated, yet there could be no doubt that there was a sufficient degree of distress and embarrassment to warrant the House to enter upon an inquiry into its cause, with a view, if possible, to find some means of relief. It was evident that a great majority of the House was for limiting the inquiry to that precise object; and he was convinced, that if the House were to affirm the proposition of the hon. member for Whitehaven, unaccompanied by a Resolution that they would maintain the present standard of value, the next day would present a spectacle which no man would contemplate without horror, or find terms sufficiently eloquent to describe. It was his decided conviction, that if the country meant to retain its character for good
 556 557 *
 Sir Henry Parnell  would shortly state the grounds on which he should give his vote on the Motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven. He had paid great attention to the speech of the hon. Member to discover what his precise plan was, and the result he had come to was, to consider it in the same point of view with his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer—namely, as a plan for lowering the
 * 558 s s 559 s d s
 Mr. Lambert said, it was impossible to deny, that, since the alteration in the monetary system, the distress of the country had greatly increased. It had, in fact, been progressive, and the only part of
 560 l 561 d l l l l 21. 41. 21. 562 s 563 564 s d 565 566 567
 Mr. Walter  began by complimenting the Ministers on the resolute and decided manner in which the ill-judged proposition of the hon. member for Whitehaven had been met by them. He thought, that the Reform Bill itself was hardly of greater moment, or the firmness and good sense displayed on that occasion by his Majesty's Government more conspicuous. With reference to preceding speakers, it was impossible to forget the powerful and convincing speech of the right hon. Baronet who had closed the preceding night's debate, and who, as he unanswerably showed, had been most unjustly attacked, in having his celebrated measure of I8I9 made the subject of so much obloquy. If even that right hon. Gentleman was in error on that occasion, he was in error with all those who possessed the highest character as statesmen: he was prospectively sanctioned by repeated resolutions of that House, by the terms on which every loan had been raised, and by the original Bank Restriction Act itself; all of which contemplated, and pledged the Legislature to a direct resumption of cash payments at the end of the war. The bill of 1819 had, indeed, been called Mr. Peel's Bill; but did he stand alone in his advocacy of it? Had not his opinion of the necessity of reverting to cash payments been supported throughout the whole period of their suspension by all the most eminent men existing in the country—by Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, and by all persons constituting the great mass of intellect in the country? Of those eminent persons Lord Granville alone remained; and had they not his published opinion, that we never could have any security as to our finances till we returned to cash payments, and bank paper became convertible into gold at the will of the holder? If the opinion were
 568 s s s d d 569
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that he and those with whom he acted, in reference to this question, did not seek anything beyond a currency convertible into gold. He hoped it was scarcely necessary for him to assure the House, that no project so inexpedient and so unjust could have ever entered their minds, as a change in the currency to the extent which some Gentlemen imagined. There was no intention nor desire on the part of those who supported the Motion to issue paper to any mischievous extent, or under such arrangements as would endanger the property of persons as it had been endangered formerly upon the failure of private bankers. For his own part, all he desired was to carry into effect the plan of the late Sir Robert Peel—a man whose memory was cherished and respected by every man who knew him. The late Sir Robert Peel's plan was, that private bankers should place a certain sum of money—say 20,000 l l l 570
 Mr. Morrison , being strongly impressed with the belief, that to a tampering with the currency in past years much of the present distress of the country was attributable, expressed his intention of voting
 571 l 572 l 573
 Sir John Wrottesley , who, on rising, was interrupted by cries of "Question," said, he had been too long a Member of that House to be put down by such cries, and those who would not hear him might depend upon it that they should hear nobody else till he had spoken. It was his decided opinion, that the present Motion was substantially to inquire into the distress of the country; and that that distress existed might be gathered from what had fallen from the last speaker, and from several Returns which had been laid upon the Table of that House. The conclusions which had been drawn by the right hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade relative to the diminution, or rather to the non-existence of distress were most incorrect. That right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the Poor-rates of Birmingham, from which he had no returns; but he could take upon himself to say, that at Wolverhampton the case was directly the reverse. The poor-rates had been doubled since 1824, and it was impossible that Wolverhampton could be thus suffering, and Birmingham be prosperous. He stated this fact on the authority of the gentleman who had been sent there as a Commissioner to inquire into the Poor-laws, and he stated, that the administration of the poor there was well managed. Nevertheless the Poor-rates had doubled; that surely was an evidence of prosperity in that industrious community. The right hon. Gentleman had also referred to the increase of the tolls on the Birmingham Canal; but the old Birmingham Canal had increased its revenue, not from any in
 574 l l l l l l l 575 l 576
 Mr. John Smith  was rather surprised at many of the arguments he had heard. The hon. Baronet had spoken of the fall of profits of canals as a criterion of distress; but the public funds betrayed no symptom of that disease. Had the three per cents fallen? They were as marketable as ever; and many people desired to have them. Without meaning to throw any imputations on any hon. Members, he must say, that he doubted many of the stories of distress which had been told the House. He had heard, on what he was told was good authority, though he did not know the Gentleman, that all the population of Manchester engaged in the spinning business got, including men, women, and children, 10 s 577
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  rose to reply, The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken sounded the same alarm when it was proposed to appoint a Committee on the subject of the currency a few years back. He had come down every day to the Committee upon the Bank Charter, predicting ruin to credit from their inquiries; but none of the consequences which he had foretold came to pass, and there was no reason to believe, that his present alarm had any other foundation than his own timidity. Those Members who voted for the Motion would pledge themselves to nothing but inquiry, and might afterwards support the proposition of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) without inconsistency. The ground upon which he supported his Motion was, that distress existed, that it was connected with their monetary system, and that no inquiry could be complete which did not embrace inquiry into that system. He had been charged by the noble Lord with bringing forward a Motion which carried with it a depreciation of the currency; but he absolutely denied the justice of the noble Lord's inference as to the tendency of his Resolution. Those who made that charge had no authority from his words, for making it. He had reason, therefore, to complain that the whole arguments of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) and other speakers, had all been directed against his speech, and against the Motion, on that fallacious inference. The Resolution of the noble Lord went to pledge the House not to lower the standard of value. But why all his horror against lowering it, when the standard had been successively raised at several periods, without exciting any such horror, though that was as dishonest towards the industrious classes as lowering it could possibly be towards those who lived on fixed incomes. It had been raised beyond the old standard of 1795. It had been raised, as the hon. member for Essex admitted, more than fifty per cent above that of 1815: and it would have been
 578 s s d l l s l l s l
 Lord Althorp  explained that he had said he would only consent to silver as a standard so coined, if it were not depreciation; and if it were depreciation he would not consent to it.
 Mr. Attwood  accepted the noble Lord's emendation; but he could assure him that silver at 60 s
 Mr. Baring  begged to correct the hon. Member. He spoke hypothetically, and said, that if the two other conditions he had mentioned were fulfilled, he should not then object to consider the propriety of issuing one-pound notes.
 Mr. Attwood  continued: The hon. Member had in 1826 spoken in the strongest terms against small notes. In 1830 also, when he (Mr. Attwood) had moved two resolutions, one of which related to the small notes, and the other to the silver
 579 580 Here an interruption took place, the House having before frequently displayed marks of impatience, and a cry of "Turn him out," followed this interruption
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, his observations had been mistaken by the hon. Member. He never denied the existence of distress, but he said it was not as great as had been stated by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Attwood : Well, distress was admitted, and that was all he contended for. The right hon. Gentleman said, "Look at tobacco with all the duty upon it, and then tell the House of public distress." Why, he would tell the House and the country that, notwithstanding the increase of the duty on tobacco, still great distress existed. He thought the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman went rather to show a falling-off than an improvement of the state of the country. The right hon. Gentleman had chosen to draw a comparison between the years 1814 and 1832, and had endeavoured to show that a great rise in the consumption had taken place between those periods. He had said, that in 1814 the consumption of tobacco was 15,273,000lbs.; and in 1832 20,235,000lbs., which showed an increase of thirty-one per cent, on the consumption, while the increase of the population was twenty-four per cent. This, however, arose from the circumstance that tobacco had been entirely excluded from the country during the years 1813–14, on account of the American War; and such was the effect of the exclusion, that the price had risen in 1814, from l¾d (the price in 1812) to 1 s d 581 s d s 582
 Lord Althorp  said, that, although he might not object to have the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman, for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the distress of the country generally, agreed to, he could not, at the same time, allow the words proposed to be added to his (Lord Althorp's) Motion to be inserted in it. The question was undoubtedly one of very great importance, and might be brought forward by the hon. Gentleman, or by any other hon. Gentleman, as a separate motion; but he must object to any alteration being made in his Amendment. He felt that it was important his Amendment should stand as it was, a substantive motion, and that the decision of the House upon so important a subject as that of the depreciation of the currency should be recorded, without any qualification or addition, in the Journals of the House. Besides this objection, there was another, which must be fatal to the hon. Gentleman's purpose, and that was, that his motion for a Committee was so generally worded, that it would be impossible to limit its attention to any given subject.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that on a subject which involved the consideration of the standard of the currency, and its effects upon the country, it would be most unjust to expect a pledge from any hon. Member as to the line of conduct he would pursue. They had heard a great deal about the distress of the working "lasses, and the labouring poor, but, from ail he could learn from persons competent to form a proper judgment on the subject, he was inclined to hope that the distress alluded to had been greatly alleviated. What he meant was, that they were not actually without food and raiment. The landed proprietors would be affected by any distress that might bear heavily upon the working classes; but in his opinion, even if distress existed, the motion of the hon. Gentleman was not the way to alleviate it. He might be willing to agree to a distinct motion for inquiry into the distress of the country, but he certainly could not consent to questions very different in their nature, being mixed up and brought forward together.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the new proposition of the hon. member for Whitehaven was so important, that it ought to be reserved for a separate and distinct motion, and brought forward at an earlier hour, in order that its discussion might be fully and fairly entered into. He undoubtedly felt unwilling to venture, at that late hour, to state his view of a matter so important, and therefore he hoped that, even should the House be predisposed to agree in the hon. Gentleman's new proposition, they would not, at all events, prejudge the question by a hasty decision; for they should recollect that the functions of the Committee of Inquiry described in the hon. Gentleman's Resolution differed in no one particular from a Committee of the whole House. The subject was in fact an inquiry into the state of the country generally, and that was a matter of such vast importance, that it belonged only to a Committee of the whole House, and could not be delegated to any other or separate body. In common justice, even if they had the power, they ought not to substitute a private Committee for the established course of such inquiries; but, whether they were ready to assent to to or deny the proposition, he hoped they would not act with precipitation.
 Mr. Hume  fully concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet as to
 584
 Lord Stormont  agreed, that a hasty decision would not be desirable, and he begged, therefore, to suggest, that the further debate upon the question should be adjourned. It had been asserted that no distress existed in the country; but, of all men in that House, he was most astonished to hear such a declaration from the lips of the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster. The noble Lord concluded by moving the adjournment of the debate.
 Sir Francis Burdett  denied that he had represented that distress did not exist in the country; but what he had said was, that from all the information he had received, the working classes were not in distress.
 Lord John Russell  said, that although he concurred with the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) that a question so important ought to receive a separate consideration, he yet could not agree to the proposition of adjournment made by the noble Lord. The question, however, was, should any addition be made to the proposition of his noble friend (Lord Al-thorp), or should the House now appoint a Committee to consider the distresses of the country? It might be fit that the Resolution of the hon. member for Whitehaven should receive a distinct consideration, but certainly it would not become the House to adjourn until they had decided whether they would sanction or resist the attempt that was made to occasion a depreciation of the currency. The hon. Gentleman, too, ought to consider whether his object would not be better answered by bringing the question forward another day, and upon other grounds; for it must be apparent to the hon. Gentleman, as it was to every one else, that his Motion was too general.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  protested against the noble Lord who had just sat down imputing to him designs other than those which were obvious from the language of his Resolution. He assured them that he
 585
 Mr. Methuen  assured the House, that the statements which they had heard of the non-existence of distress from the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster, and others, were fabulous. Only last week, he had seen forty able-bodied young men before the Quarter Sessions of Wiltshire, and heard them declare, that they got only half-a-crown a-week from their employers, though they worked twelve hours a-day, and that their subsistence was eked out by parish allowance. Distress existed in the country to a most grievous extent.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  perfectly agreed with the hon. Member who had brought the subject forward, that it would be quite consistent to vote for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry, without in the least considering the question of the currency on the motion of the noble Lord (Althorp). He should certainly feel proud to vote for the Motion of the noble Lord on this occasion as a substantive motion, but then it was upon the conviction that the noble Lord would not oppose the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, the member for Whitehaven, when it was brought forward as a separate and distinct motion.
 Lord Ebrington  could not avoid saying that he was surprised at hearing the Amendment of the hon. member for Whitehaven, and the more particularly as the hon. Member had, in his speech, stated that in his opinion any inquiry into the distresses of the country, unless coupled with an inquiry into the effects of the monetary system, would be a delusion and a mockery.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, the noble Lord could not possibly have heard his observations, because he always said, that the House had the means of partially relieving distress, even without altering the present standard of value.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the time was certainly come when an inquiry ought to be instituted into the distresses of the country. Whatever might be said as to the State of England, no doubt could be entertained
 586
 Mr. Beaumont  said, the hon. and learned member for Dublin took every opportunity of opposing the Government. For his own part, he must oppose the Motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven.
 Mr. Harvey  was sorry that any notion was entertained that he had abandoned his Motion on the subject of the Pension Lists. He had, in fact, only postponed it till the 22nd of May. The object of that Motion was, not to deprive any of the pensioners of the payments they had received, or were entitled to receive, but to relieve them from the odium so generally understood to attach to them, as if there were any women in England, Scotland, or Ireland, who received pensions for which they had not given to the country a full and adequate consideration. For this purpose he should move for a Return of all pensioners, and the consideration they had given for their pensions. There was one suggestion which he would in the mean time throw out—that when it was intended to take the sense of the House on any point, it would be well to have an intimation to that effect stated in the votes of the House. In that case hon. Members would take care to be present on particular occasions, or at least they would have no excuse for their absence. Before he sat down, he begged  l
 Mr. Hume  said, it was perfectly true, as stated by the hon. member for Oldham, that a very large sum of money was paid to females by way of pensions, and the late Parliament had been exceedingly blameable in extending charity to noble Lords and Ladies, instead of having some charitable consideration for the distresses of the labouring and industrious classes. When he saw the Returns of the number of poor persons who had been distrained upon for small amounts of taxes, and whose goods had been sold, he was convinced it was exceedingly unbecoming to allow a single pension of 50 l 540
 Mr. Cobbett  contended that the noble Lord might have got more means to enable him to reduce the taxes to a greater extent than he had proposed to do. Why had he not struck off a number of unmerited pensions? There was a number of women who took more of the public money than was necessary to support 25,500 sailors and marines, with their officers. If the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) would pledge himself to reduce that expenditure, he (Mr. Cobbett) would lend him his strenuous support.
 Mr. O'Connell  defended the hon. Member for Middlesex, than whom no Member more expedited real public business. Referring to the meeting held that day at the Crown and Anchor, he must say, that he had also been there, and wished the Ministers also had been present. As they were not, it was well that they should be made acquainted with the sentiments expressed there; and certainly no Ministry had ever been more execrated at any meeting than the present Government were on this occasion, for having so dreadfully deceived the people in putting forward so miserable, so paltry, and so contemptible a pretence of reduction as they had done.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  deprecated
 596
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had heard hon. Members talk a great deal about the labouring classes putting their money in the funds, and such like securities; but suppose there should be a run upon the Bank, in the way that was explained by Mr. Paine—a thing which was very likely, for it was actually the case in 1827, what would then become of the poor men's securities? It would then come to a scramble, and the word would be "the devil take the hindmost." They were going quite the wrong way to work, and the better way by far would be to take off the burthens of the people, to let them live well, and have nothing to do with the funds.
 Mr. Hardy  said, he should be in favour of any measure which could lead to an improvement in the condition of the labouring and operative classes of the country; yet, at the same time, he feared that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Slaney) was not sufficiently acquainted with the measures which had been pursued for some years past, in order to enable those meritorious classes to make some provision for old age. It could not be doubted that combinations were rife in this country to promote an increase of wages, and that, not for one class of journeymen to which their fellow-journeymen subscribed, but also for other trades, whether tailors, carpenters, plasterers, or others. Now, this he took to be a grievance as well as an act of injustice. He had known instances in the west riding of Yorkshire, when men earning 14 s s s 604
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. Member who had spoken last, said a great deal about the combinations of workmen to raise wages, but forgot that the masters were also in the habit of combining to keep down wages; but these were not denominated combinations, although they existed so generally. It was improper, in his opinion, that any legislative enactment should apply to journeymen, which did not also apply to masters; and it was Upon that principle that he had brought forward his measure in 1825. Nothing was said about masters; but a great deal about workmen, their wages, their hours of labour, and their combinations, as by an error of his (Mr. Hume's) he had denominated the meeting and consulting together of workmen. He objected, however, to the interference of the Legislature with the funds of any description of persons. It was true that combinations, after the passing of the Bill which he had proposed in 1825, had been carried to an illegal extent, insomuch that a Committee of the House of Commons, of which he (Mr. Hume) was a Member, had been compelled to examine parties belonging to Liverpool and Newcastle, without publishing their names; but since the removal of the grounds of complaint which had given rise to these unions, they had assumed a much more pacific character, and were now confined to their legitimate objects. It had been argued against the measure, that it might be made an instrument and an engine for producing very great mischief, in consequence of the hands in whose management the funds would be left; but he had too high an opinion of the good sense of the labouring classes of the country to have any apprehension upon that subject. He did not, therefore, look with any degree of jealousy at such combinations, but he did object to put any restraint on the funds of the working classes. The Act formerly passed to regulate friendly societies, had had the effect of reducing the number of the societies by one-half, in consequence of the trouble and expense which it brought upon them; for, instead of an expense of one guinea, as the House had anticipated in passing the Bill, an expense varying from three to seven guineas was necessary before the societies could comply with the regulations required by the Act. The consequence had been, that thousands—and he spoke
 605
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  opposed that part of the proposition of the hon. Gentleman which went to enable and induce the labouring classes to invest their joint money in the public funds. Such a proceeding on their part, would, in his opinion, be highly dangerous. There were already 270,000 distinct proprietors of stock; added to which there were about 270,000 families having money in the savings' banks, besides numerous friendly societies, all of whom had their property invested in the public funds. If to these were added the parties to whom the hon. Member's proposition applied, the consequence would be, that Government would hold a terrific partnership with almost the whole of the working classes, whom they would thus be enabled to scourge at their pleasure. He was the more solicitous on this point, as he was convinced that the division of last night had sapped the foundation of the public funds. He was sure of it; he was sure that that division rendered the whole foundation of the national debt rotten and unsafe; and, he would, therefore, not give his countenance to a manœuvre which would induce the lower classes to place the savings of their industry on so precarious a footing. He was persuaded that the truth of what he had been observing would be made manifest, and that at no very distant period.
 Mr. John Maxwell  felt that, what was called Peel's Bill, had given the public creditor a greater advantage than he was justly entitled to; and what rendered that effect more objectionable was, that since the passing of that measure, the wages of the working classes had fallen one half. He heartily approved of the proposition of the hon. member for Shrewsbury; and should be very happy to see the people, instead of losing the Mondays, and sometimes the Tuesdays of every week, working hard for twelve hours every day, in order to lay by something for old age, and to prevent in-
 606
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the discussion had been altogether diverted from the proposition now before the House. He was sorry to hear the hon. member for Birmingham take that opportunity to recur to the debate of last night, and to give it as his opinion that the funds did not rest upon as secure a foundation as they did previous to the vote of the House last night. If the hon. Member had, in the course of the day, consulted any man of knowledge and business in the city of London on the subject, he would find that the very reverse was the fact—he would find that the consequence of the vote of last night was, that the funds were more secure now than ever—and that, instead of resting upon a rotten foundation, as he would insinuate, they were now one hundredfold more secure than they would have been if the motion of the hon. member for Whitehaven had been carried. He was sorry, he repeated, that the hon. member for Birmingham had endeavoured, on this occasion, to throw discredit upon the public funds. He would give his cordial support to the Bill now before the House. He could not avoid making the few observations which he had made in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. member for Birmingham respecting the vote of last night—a vote that he was sure would be considered by the country as rendering more secure the property of every man in it.
 Mr. Slaney  disclaimed any intention of proposing that the individuals in question should not invest their money as they chose, or should not draw it out when they liked. The object of his proposition was, to give them a better security than they now enjoyed.
 The Earl of Darlington  was surprised and disappointed to find that although the representation was now completely amended—although the people now really had a voice in that House—yet that there should be still such a spirit of restlessness that many persons would not be satisfied till all the institutions which were old were brought to an end. The object of this Motion was to throw into the hands of the democracy a greater degree of weight, and a degree of power, than was consistent with the well-being of other classes in the State. He certainly must oppose the views of the hon. Member who proposed the Motion, as he did not wish the object of that Motion to be attained. If the Reform Act had not been passed, he might have been in favour of the Motion. So long as the former state of things continued, there might be some reason for the Ballot, because the smallness of the constituency might enable a powerful individual to influence them; but that was no longer the case—the constituencies now were too numerous and powerful to be thus influenced. The events of the two last years had rendered the Motion totally unnecessary. He was, therefore, surprised that the hon. Member should, upon the very first day of the Session, have given notice of this Motion, before it was possible that he or any one else could have had any experience of the composition and character of the Reformed House of Commons. With the feelings of an Englishman he protested against this secret and unmanly mode of voting. Every change in the institutions of a country was in itself an evil as a change, and ought not to be adopted unless there was some accompanying benefit. He did not think that any public benefit could arise from this change. The main argument in its favour was, that an honest voter might, from his situation in life, he at present unable to give his vote according to his opinion, and this scheme was to enable him to do so. Before, however, the change would be made, it should be inquired, would it be effectual. It was well known, that in contested elections all the electors were canvassed by influential persons, to whom they were all known; and suppose they promised their vote in accordance with their interest, and afterwards violated that promise, was it possible that they should long remain unknown to the persons they attempted to deceive?
 631 l
 Mr. Tayleure  said, he thought the Ballot necessary to complete the Reform Bill. The vote was worse than useless to the elector, who was under a control that prevented the free exercise of his right; a right that was given by law, but of which he was deprived by an usurper. If the people were incapable of exercising the right why was it given? If the privilege were taken away by Act of Parliament, or by a private individual, the people were equally enslaved. Who were they that required the protection of the Ballot? The honest, the industrious, but the poor and the humble; and not he that did not need it as a safeguard—the ruined and profligate tradesman, who, having nothing to care for, defied all control. The careful, the industrious, the frugal tradesman—the man, who hoped, by steady attention to business, to support himself and family in respectability, was, on account of his family, checked by the fear of offending his customers, and must either determine to vote against his conscience, or to ruin the prosperity of his family. For such a man the Ballot was required; and who would say that such a man did not deserve its protection? He was at a loss to reconcile the
 642
 Mr. Francis Baring  protested against the manner in which the hon. member for London had divided the constituency of the country into two classes, the landlords and
 643 644 645
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he would only detain the House for a few minutes. He thought that hon. Members who had spoken against the adoption of Vote by Ballot, though they said they were averse to it, had brought forward no sound argument against its adoption. The question at issue was really this. Was the vote to belong to the voter, or to any body else? Was it his own property, or the property of those who could exercise an influence over him? Those who thought that the vote ought to belong to the voter, should support Vote
 662 663
 Mr. Lennard  presented a Petition from the towns of Epping and Harlow, calling on the House to devise some plan by which the children of the poorer classes may be provided with education suited to their situation in society, and which might not interfere with their religious feelings and opinions. The petitioners intreated those
 593
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  said: I am well aware. Sir, of the great disadvantages I must labour under, in following the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; but, at the same time, I feel it necessary to make a few observations in support of the vote I am about to give. I would, therefore, beseech the House to dismiss from their ears the eloquence they have just heard—loud as a trumpet with a silver sound—and turn their attention to the simple and unvarnished facts I shall offer to their notice. Sir, in the division of the county which I have the honour to represent, and during the last election, in one instance, six honest and industrious men, hatters by trade, at Oldland, comprising in their families no less than forty-five individuals, were discharged from their work, and driven to seek the charity of the public, for giving their votes according to their conscience, and as they conceived as best served the interests of their country. The truth of the statement of these men was at first questioned, and finally, accompanied by a solicitor, they went before no less than six different Magistrates to be sworn, who all refused to take their oath on various and frivolous pretexts. Now, Sir, I would ask the House—I would appeal to the country—what purity of election can exist if such intimidation is to continue? Are we not bound, then, to pass some measure for the protection of the labouring man in the free exercise of his franchise? I confess that for a length of time my opinions ranged against the Vote by Ballot, but the necessity of it has been, as it were, forced upon me by the acts of that very party who have ever been loudest in their cry against it. I repeat, that the purity of election does not, and cannot, exist under these circumstances, and without trespassing at this late hour further upon the House, I must say that the measure now before it has my warmest support.
 Major Fancourt  said, that if, in the ar-
 649 650 651 652 653 654 655 656
 Mr. Grote  briefly replied, and the House divided—Ayes 106; Noes 211: Majority 105.
 Mr. Grote  then spoke as follows;  * * 609 610 juris sui Juris alieni; 611 612 Preces erant, sed quibus contradici non poterat 613 614 615 616 It is great sin to swear unto a sin, But greater still to keep a sinful oath. Who can be bound by any solemn vow To do a murderous deed, to rob a man. To force a spotless virgin's chastity, To reave the orphan of his patrimony, 617 To wring the widow from her customed right; And have no other reason for his wrong, But that he was bound by a solemn oath? 618 619 620 621 vultus instantis tyranni civium ardor prava Jubentium 622 623 624 625 626 627 628 629 "With winning words to conquer willing hearts, And make persuasion do the work of fear."
 Mr. Benett  deprecated the attack made on Ministers by the hon. member for Middlesex. As to what he had said about their trifling with the business of the country, he must observe, that altogether no man had caused more interruption in the way of transacting public business, by irrelevant discussions, than the hon. Member himself.
 Mr. Philpotts  begged leave to be allowed that opportunity of presenting a Petition, most numerously and respectably signed, from Gloucester, which was intimately connected with the hon. Member's Motion.—The following petition was accordingly presented and read.
 To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned Electors and Inhabitants of Gloucester, Showeth,—That the oppressive practices of many wealthy and influential persons, resident within this city and in its neighbourhood, since the general election in December last, and during a recent contest for a seat in your honourable House, compel your petitioners to lay before you a statement of their grievances and of their formed opinion, that freedom of election in this place, and, as they fear, throughout the country, can be insured by no other means, than the adoption of the system of the Vote by Ballot. That your petitioners are not insensible to the truth, that if no other than legitimate influence were exerted, open suffrages would, as the most manly, be the far preferable, mode of exercising the elective franchise. To the desire for change they have been driven, by the acts of men who arrogate to themselves the right, and usurp the power, of controlling the expression of public opinion. That not only has the intimidation, not un-frequently practised, been resorted to in the inordinate exercise of the rights of creditors, of landlords, of masters, of magistrates, of clergymen, and of public functionaries, but very many tradesmen, dreading great pecuniary losses, and, in some instances, even the ruin of themselves and their families, did not dare, at the recent election, to exercise the rights conferred upon them by the Reform Act, in defiance of the urgent threats of their richer customers, and the avowed adoption, by the Tory party, of a system of dealing exclusively with tradesmen who are accustomed to vote for a Tory candidate, regardless of the injuries thus inflicted upon respectable men, for no other cause than their acting upon their own opinions. That this latter species of oppression, as it cannot constitutionally be encountered by any legal restriction, or penal enactment, is an evil, for which your petitioners perceive no other remedy than the introduction of the Ballot. Though gross bribery has been practised at the recent contest, and though the Ballot is an undoubted means of preventing that crime, yet, inasmuch as the law, in that respect, though not sufficiently strict, is, when enforced, very penal towards offenders, your petitioners
 608 Your petitioners humbly pray, that your honourable House will be pleased to protect every man in the due exercise of his constitutional rights, by passing a bill for taking votes by Ballot, at the elections of Members of Parliament for cities and boroughs."
 Mr. Hume  considered the prayer of the petition to be one highly deserving the attention of the House, as the subject was of the highest possible importance. The Report on the Poor-laws presented a state of ignorance and crime in the country which ought to be appalling to every person—in
 594 595 order, order
 Mr. Hall Dare  concurred in the prayer of the Petition, believing that the most signal moral advantages would result to the people from their better education; and he therefore hoped that at no distant period his Majesty's Ministers would bring forward measures to effect this object. He also trusted that the House would on that occasion call to mind that no measure or system could be efficient for such purposes, which was not calculated to infuse religious principles into the minds of the people. Without the inculcation of religious principles, any system would be faulty.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that no man, however great his eloquence and ability, should induce him to believe that if the system of voting by ballot were made the law of the land, and if, as a consequence, the voting at elections was secret, the effect would not
 646 647 648
 Mr. Cobbett  rose and said: Sir, before I proceed to the merits of the question, the House will be so good as to suffer me to make a remark on what has fallen from the hon. member for Portsmouth, relative to the practice of the Ballot in America. The hon. Gentleman has told us, that in some of the states there is Ballot, and in some of them no Ballot; so that, as far as America goes, here is no authority at all in its favour. For the want of full information upon the subject, the hon. Gentleman omitted to tell the House that there is no Ballot in those States where slavery exists in the greatest degree; and that there is Ballot in all the States where slavery does not exist. Then the hon. Member has read to us an extract from an address of the Governor of New York to the Houses of Assembly of that State, complaining of the interference of the government officers in the late election, complaining of the conduct of the officers of the naval yard, of the custom-house, and even of the judiciary. It must have appeared somewhat strange to the House that there should have been a Governor complaining of the officers of his own government, and persons of his own appointment. But, when the House is told, that the general government of the United States have a naval yard, a custom-house, and a judiciary in the State of New York, as well as in each of the other states, the seeming absurdity disappears; and the fact is this, the governor of the State of New York, who had been just elected, was of politics different from the President of the United States; and he very justly complained of the interference of the officers of the United States to prevent his election; and he was suggesting to the legislature the propriety of adopting some regulation to prevent such interference in future; and, upon this peculiar transaction, with regard to which the Ballot is not once mentioned by the governor of the State of New York, the hon. member for Portsmouth puts the construction, that the great and flourishing
 659 660 661
 Mr. Peter : Sir, respecting, as I long have done, the talents of the hon. Member who has brought this Motion before the House, and grateful, as I must ever feel
 632 633 634 635 636 637 638 Yea,—even that which mischief meant most harm, Did, in the happy trial, prove most glory. 639 640 641
 Sir George Phillips  declared himself adverse to the system of secret voting. At the same time he felt obliged to admit, that gross interference with the rights of the constituency had been used by those persons who were most adverse to the introduction of the Ballot. He felt obliged to admit, that those landlords who called themselves conservatives, had attempted to control their tenantry as to their votes, in a manner that was inconsistent with the principles of the Reform Bill. Before the new system of election was again changed, we ought to have more experience of its operations. He did not see that the Ballot would prevent bribery; it would be likely to double bribery, for voters might delude both sides. It had been said, that the Ballot had been tried in America; but a friend of his, speaking from observation, had stated, that too much importance was attached to this measure there. He wished to put all parties on their guard, by impressing upon them, that the Ballot, though it might be employed for good purposes, might be easily abused for bad.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that though the hon. and learned member for Dublin had not made a long speech, yet, as it was well known that he had paid much attention to the subject, his powerful mind would have suggested stronger arguments in favour of the question before them, if stronger were to be urged. He (Sir Robert Peel) would briefly review the reasoning of the hon. and learned Gentleman in favour of the Vote by Ballot, confident that the learned Gentleman had omitted nothing which could really be relied on as an argument in its behalf. One of the effects which the learned Member expected from the Ballot was, that it would put an end to canvassing. Did the learned Gentleman consider that as an improvement? Did he think it an improvement, that, after a man had been toiling for years in the service of his constituents, they should receive him with a dead langour and apathy, or that he should return among them with the same feeling? Did he consider it an improvement, that a Member should not have an opportunity of explaining his conduct to his constituents, or of asking them for a renewal of their confidence? For his own part, far from thinking that an improvement, he should consider it to be destructive of one of the strongest links between the represented and their Representatives—one of the best securities for an honest discharge of their respective trusts. It would debar the constituents from a personal acquaintance with their representatives, and it would deprive the representative of the opportunity of mixing with the humbler classes of his constituents, of ascertaining their wants and wishes, and asking their support upon public grounds. If a man of wealth, station, and character, were thus relieved from the necessity of canvassing; in other words, of all personal and individual communication with his constituents—if he was only to appear before them on a stated day, amid all the confusion of a public ceremony, he for one should consider this boasted effect of the Ballot as any thing but a recommendation. The hon. and
 664 665 666 667
 Sir William Ingilby  seconded the Motion, and he did so because he had within the last six months witnessed the baneful effects of the present system of voting. Nothing could be worse or more corrupt than the way in which the elective franchise was now used. The voter was placed at the mercy of the country attorney and the steward of the squire, and these persons were more dreaded than the squire himself, or even the parson. All sorts of means were resorted to by the attorney and the steward to compel the unfortunate voter to support any candidate they pleased; and he would read to the House a sample of the letters which persons of this description sent round to intimidate the electors over whom their influence extended on such occasions—(the hon. Baronet then read a letter which he said had been written by a country attorney to a farmer, stating that by an act of George 3rd, no persons were allowed to vote at elections but freeholders, and that any person who voted without being duly qualified was subject to serious pains and penalties). The time had arrived when such a system of intimidation should be put an end to. The system of canvassing at the recent general election had done immense mischief. There was at that time a religious crusade throughout the country. He knew nothing more likely to bring the clergy into disrepute than their interfering at elections; and if it were for no other reason than that he wished to preserve them from falling into odium among the people, he should vote in favour of this Motion. He spoke with regret of any thing that was likely to be injurious to the
 630
 Lord Althorp  said, that the position in which he stood, rendered it necessary that he should address the House on this question, in order to explain the grounds of the vote he should give. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, there had been one division on this question, on the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. O'Connell), in which he had voted for the adoption of the ballot, and he had since expressed himself in favour of that mode of taking votes; but he had never stated or urged it as a  sine quâ non 657 658
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose pursuant to notice to propose a Resolution on the subject of Agricultural Distress. The noble Marquess referred to the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in which he observed no adequate relief was proposed to be given to the suffering agricultural classes of this country. The full amount of the relief from taxation, proposed by the noble Lord to be given to the agricultural classes was not more than 33,000 l 679
 The Marquess of Chandos : The tax upon the insurance of agricultural stock.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  observed, that the noble Lord had saved them from the difficulty in which the hon. member for Oldham would place them, by himself admitting, that he had a surplus available for the reduction of taxation. The question then fairly arose as to what taxes in particular they should remove or reduce with this surplus. He could not agree with the noble Lord that to take a tax off one class was as efficient relief to another class as if the tax were taken off that other class, any more than he could agree that if two men were climbing a hill, and the pack were taken off one man's shoulders, that that would be the same relief to the other as if it had been taken off his. It was no satisfaction to the agriculturist when he asked to have the tax taken off the insurance of agricultural property to tell him that the shipping interest was greatly relieved by having the tax on marine insurances taken off. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had only thrown out a tub to the whale, and he hoped the landed interest would not go swimming after that tub. The agriculturists had exhibited the most exemplary patience
 682
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that as the noble Marquess had held out as a sort of threat, that the farmers would know their friends by the division upon this Motion, he was anxious to state his reasons for voting against it. He was from principle, and from self-interest, as firm a friend to the agricultural interest as the noble Marquess, but he could not vote for this Motion, and for this simple reason—that he did not see any tax which was immediately pressing upon the agricultural interest, that could be reduced consistently with the maintenance of the revenue, so as to afford that interest effectual relief. His next reason for voting against this Motion was, that as the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice of the appointment of a Committee on the subject of agricultural distress, it appeared to him that the House should wait until that inquiry was terminated, and the Committee had made its Report, before it pledged itself to any particular course upon the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, was greatly misunderstood, when it was supposed that he meant anything offensive to the advocates of the agricultural interests by saying that they should come there with clean hands. The mistake only exemplified the danger of using figures of speech, and certainly his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, was more expert at figures of arithmetic than at figures of rhetoric. All that his hon. friend meant was, that the agricultural interest should give up their monopoly in corn before they called for relief. As there was as great agricultural distress in Ireland as in England, he would vote for the Motion of the noble Marquess.
 Sir George Philips  felt considerable interest
 696 A laugh 697
 Mr. Curteis  called on the Members for all large towns to join the agriculturists in supporting the Motion of the hon. Baronet. He considered the Motion of the utmost consequence to the agricultural labourer. It was of greater consequence to the tenants than to the landlord. He hoped, that the Motion would be carried, or at all events, that there would be such a respectable minority as would show that the feeling of the whole country was opposed to the tax. Though he always supported Ministers when he thought them in the right, he had no hesitation in opposing them when wrong; he would accordingly oppose them on the present question. He hoped that the hon. Baronet would press his Motion to a division.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, feeling, as the representative of a great manufacturing and commercial community, that he had been called upon by the hon. member for Sussex, to support the present Motion, he begged to assure the hon. Gentleman, that he for one needed no such appeal. He was ready as a volunteer to have supported the Motion, having long, in his own mind, been convinced of the propriety of abolishing the duty on malt; and he begged to assure the hon. member for Lincolnshire, who had that night brought forward the Motion, that all he had to complain of was, that his measure did not go far enough. He knew that the character of the hon. Baronet would clear him from the imputation of being ordinarily the supporter of half measures; but in this instance he was ready to have supported him in the total repeal of the Malt-duty.
 709
 Captain Gordon  did expect that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have included in his Budget some proposition to relieve the agricultural classes. The reduction of taxation on taxed carts and tiles would not be felt in the particular part of the country with which he was connected, because neither taxed carts nor tiles were used there. He felt bound in justice to his constituents to vote for a Motion which would have the effect of giving some small relief. He supported it, however, for another reason, namely, that there was every reason to suppose a reduction of the duty would increase the consumption, and thus remove the objection made by many hon. Members that it was necessary for the support of the revenue.
 Mr. O'Connell  would support the Motion, simply because it was a Motion for reduction of taxation. It was the duty of the House to reduce taxation, and the only
 712
 Mr. Lloyd  said, that, although representing an exclusively manufacturing constituency, he felt called upon, in justice to the agricultural population, to vote for the Motion. In doing so, however, he expressed a hope that, whenever a Motion were made, by which the burthens of the manufacturing population might be relieved, the agricultural Members, recollecting the support they were that night receiving, would unite their efforts in having it carried.
 Mr. Baring  said, that as the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had declared that it was not expedient to maintain a surplus revenue for the purpose of liquidating the debt, and as that sentiment had been re-echoed from all sides of the House, it became a question for him to consider, when the whole surplus revenue was applied to the reduction of taxation, what parties were entitled to share in the scramble. He should certainly not be doing his duty towards his constituents, standing there the representative of a county purely agricultural, if he did not vote for the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Ingilby). The agricultural interest was at that moment suffering under peculiar distress, and it was their duty to give relief where relief was most required. For this consideration, as well as in discharge of the duty he owed to his constituents, he should support the present Motion. He believed, too, that no reduction of taxation was more likely to give relief than the reduction of the duty on malt. If, however, the tax could not be spared, it might easily be transferred to some other article. He was one of those who thought the Beer Bill required consideration. The Committee appointed to inquire into that subject had received numerous representations of the pernicious consequences of the establishment of beer-shops; and it might be worthy of consideration, whether or not the transfer of part of the duty on malt to beer would not have the effect of removing those inconveniences which had been experienced from the operation of the Beer Bill.
 Mr. Baring  explained. He had distinctly stated that, in voting for the Resolution of the hon. Baronet, he had by no means abandoned the principles which he had hitherto maintained with regard to the Sinking Fund. But as he found it impossible to convince Ministers of the propriety of adopting his sentiments, he had dealt with them according to their own principles.
 Lord John Russell  rose amidst loud cries of "question." He certainly would not have trespassed on the attention of the House, had it not been for the surprise which he felt at the extraordinary speech which had just been delivered. It was a common but just observation, that new proselytes always went to extremes; but that any man should go from so great an
 714 l l l l l 715
 Major Beauclerk  rose to support the Resolution of the hon. Baronet, and would have seconded it with pleasure if he had had an opportunity. He voted for the Resolution because he was anxious to remove any part of the burthen which at present pressed so heavily on the backs of the people, and he did not know anything which would afford greater satisfaction to the people than the repeal of the Malt-duty. It was now very clear that large and important reductions must be made, because the existence of distress was universally admitted. He was glad of that admission, particularly as in consequence of that it now became the paramount duty of Parliament to effect the purposes for which they were returned, namely, the
 699
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that these propositions were suggested only by selfishness or some wretched theories. Let the Government only allow hon. Members to express their opinions, and it would find strength in the diversity of their opinions. They were now called upon to repeal the Malt-duties—in a day or two they were to be asked to repeal the Assessed-taxes: would the noble Lord who proposed it support a commutation of taxes, supposing the Government were to meet the demand for the repeal by such a plan? He was afraid the noble Lord would be found in the minority. It would be curious and instructive to learn how the hon. Members would give their votes on such a plan. He should like to know how many of the minority of ninety who went out just now on the proposition to give relief to the agriculturists voted the other evening in favour of the Motion for a Property-tax. It was all very well in hon. Member's pressing the Government to recede from its engagements; but he trusted Gentlemen would take the financial situation of the country into consideration before pressing for relief. He thought that they might possibly reduce 2,000,000 l l l l l l l l l We only want the half taken off l l 700 l l 701
 Mr. Robinson  then rose and said, as one of those who voted in the majority on this occasion, he thought it his duty to state that the vote he had given had not been dictated by any feeling of hostility towards his Majesty's Government. Gentlemen might smile, but he could honestly and conscientiously state, that such was not his intention. He was aware that the effect of such a decision must lead to some embarrassment on their part. He considered, however, that a most important principle had now been established, that the system of indirect taxation, in its present extent and degree, was at an end; and he called on the landed gentlemen who had insinuated that the Representatives of the trading and manufacturing towns entertained an unworthy jealousy towards that interest, but who had now received their support in the reduction of the Malt-duty, would be equally ready when, in a few days, the hon. Baronet, the member for the City of London, would propose a total repeal of the House and Window Duty, to lend their assistance for the abolition of these taxes. It would then, when that measure was also carried, be his duty—if the Government did not make a proposition to that effect—to submit a Motion for the adoption of some means to supply whatever deficiency might be necessary, after the enforcement of every practicable reduction in the public expenditure.
 Mr. Sinclair  cordially supported the Motion of the noble Marquess. He believed that, unless relief were speedily afforded, the landed interest would soon be on the verge of utter ruin. Much was said about the march of intellect, but the proprietors and the occupiers of the soil had to guard against the march of confiscation. His constituents were chiefly engaged in agricultural pursuits, and were distinguished by their intelligence and industrious habits; but they felt it almost impossible to contend against their present difficulties. In the last letter which he
 687
 Mr. Barron  said, that he should oppose the present Motion with great reluctance; because, being a landed proprietor, he should, of course, be very much benefited by the reduction of the Malt-duty. He could not, however, vote for the Motion, because he did not see how it was possible to reduce the establishment to the amount of 2,500,000 l
 Mr. Henry Handley  said, that as the Representative of a large agricultural county, he must state that the agricul-
 683
 Mr. Warburton  was not of opinion that a commutation of taxes was improper, provided that industry could be relieved by a fair and equitable Property-tax. But if he saw the Chancellor of the Exchequer with 13,000,000 l l s s s 698
 Mr. Parrott  seconded the Motion. He was satisfied the reduction proposed by the hon. Baronet would not only benefit the agricultural classes, but be a very great advantage to the public generally. In his opinion it would be practicable to remit this tax without occasioning any diminution in the revenue. The remission of half the tax, as proposed by the Resolution of the hon. Baronet, might cause a loss to the revenue of 100,000 l l 693 l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Benett  felt the difficulty which the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had pointed out, and he would not support the Motion for the reduction of this tax, unless he could point out how the interests
 695
 Mr. Hume  was convinced that the reduction of the Malt-duty one-half would not have the effect of diminishing the revenue to that amount. When the duty on spirits and coffee was reduced, the consumption greatly increased, and the revenue, instead of suffering, was benefited. He was sure, that if the present Motion was agreed to, the deficit would not exceed 800,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, he was as anxious to afford relief to the agricultural interest, as the noble Lord, the member for Buckinghamshire; he would, however, relieve it simultaneously with all other interests in the country. He confessed that he had been astonished by the speech of the hon. member for Kirkcudbright. That hon. Member was, it appeared, of opinion, that of all classes of the country the agricultural interest most required relief. Now, when Gentlemen talked so, they seemed to forget the monopoly which had been so long granted to the agricultural interest upon that most important of all articles—the article of food. For the advantage of the agricultural interest the people of this country had been obliged to pay for their food more than they otherwise would be obliged to pay for it. Every loaf of bread, every ounce of flour, and every ounce of meat, that were consumed by the people of this country, were taxed for the peculiar
 685 l
 Mr. Methuen  admitted the existence of distress amongst the agricultural classes, but agreed with his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in thinking that relief might be administered indirectly by a reduction of taxation as well as directly. He knew of an instance, which he believed was one of many, where twenty-five manufacturing workmen came to an agricultural parish to burthen the rates, in consequence of their being thrown out of employment in the town in which they had been working. He thought that as the noble Lord had agreed to a Committee on manufacturing distress the noble Marquess should for the present withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  thought the position laid down by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) with respect to the effects of reductions in taxation so clear that no one could dispute it. He thought it the soundest policy to benefit the agriculturists by enabling the manufacturing classes to purchase more freely the produce of the land. He agreed with the noble Marquess in thinking, that if the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer should persist in his intention to reduce the duty on marine insurances, it would be only just, that he should take off the duty upon insurances of agricultural produce. If, however, his noble friend could show, as no doubt he could, that the effect of the duty upon marine insurances had been, that a great number of them were at present made in Holland, that circumstance would take that tax out of the rule which it was proper to adhere to, that no particular interest should be relieved unless the doing so would afford relief to the general interests of the country. This tax was taken off not so much to benefit a particular class as to prevent us losing a beneficial employment of capital. Let the House, he would say, determine to lay on a Property-tax, and then the agricultural interest might expect to obtain that relief which it demanded, in common with the commercial, manufacturing, and trading interests of the country.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he for one approved of the Budget of the noble Lord. Whether the noble Lord might not go further in the way of reduction he would not now argue; but as far as the noble Lord went, he thought that the noble Lord had made a judicious selection of taxes for reduction; at the same time he must say that in the proposed reduction of taxes sufficient relief was not afforded to the agricultural interest. He would ask the noble Lord to give his favourable consideration to the claims of that interest. It was one, with regard to the distress of which the noble Lord himself admitted that there was no doubt, and, therefore, it was one which he should be most ready to believe. The noble Lord, according to his own statement, would, after the reduction of taxes which he proposed, have still a surplus of 500,000 l 684
 Mr. Robert Palmer  seconded the Motion, and assured the House that the farmers did really suffer severely from distress. It was quite as necessary that they should be relieved as that other portions of the community should have taxes removed from them. They required relief as much as the people of the metropolis, though they were not able to get up such a large meeting as that of yesterday. The noble Lord had only relieved the agricultural interest to the extent of about 36,000 l 680
 Mr. Robert Palmer  had voted that evening for the Motion of the noble Marquess below him, and would also vote for the proposition of the hon. Baronet, because he conceived both to be brought forward in a spirit of justice to the agricultural interest. In neither instance could
 710
 Mr. Slaney  added his request to that of the hon. member for Wiltshire, for the withdrawal of the Resolution; but, at the same time, he expressed a hope that the noble Lord would grant the remission of the tax on insurances on agricultural property. A Bill, however, would soon be before the House—he meant the Bill for the commutation of tithes, which, he trusted, would fulfil the prospects it held out of affording great and permanent relief to the agricultural portion of the community.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  wished to know what was meant by the Motion of the noble Marquess. Did he mean to say that the Corn Laws did not afford sufficient protection to landowners and the landed interest? In consequence of the Resolution which was carried on Wednesday night, it would be impossible long to retain the Corn Laws. He would take that opportunity to give notice, that upon an early day he would move for the total repeal of all the Corn Laws, and of all laws of any kind—[ Immense Laughter 689
 Mr. Hodges  said that, knowing what were the feelings of the country on the subject of this tax, he felt it his duty to support the Motion of the hon. Baronet, the member for Lincolnshire; at the same time he expressed his regret that that Motion did not go to the extent of the entire abolition of the Malt-tax. While on his legs, he could not help observing, that it appeared to him rather a curious circumstance to see those Gentlemen who had supported every Administration that existed previous to the present one, now demanding a remission of taxation. In his opin-
 713
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that before he offered any remarks upon the Motion immediately before the House, he must make an observation or two respecting the Corn Laws, in consequence of what had fallen from some hon. Members. He remembered the history well of the Corn-Bill which had been so much attacked. He had disapproved of that Bill, not because it was a piece of gross injustice, or because it was in itself opprobrious, but because it was calculated to lead the landlords to support the Ministers in their extravagance. The hon. member for South Wilts (Mr. Benett) had, he believed, at the time the Bill was under consideration presided at a meeting at Salisbury held for the purpose of determining to keep up the prices. Now, that was an error, and an injury to the landlords themselves, as he then well saw, for it produced the enormous establishments they all so much complained of. The effect had been, that the whole country, with very few exceptions, accused the landlords of calling for the Corn-laws to enable them to rob the other classes of the community. He had addressed, in the course of last year, nearly half a million of persons, and all, or almost all, thought that the Corn-laws had been passed to tax the people for the benefit of the landlords—that the laws were, in fact, a means for taking out of the pockets of the people a large sum of money to put it into the pockets of the landlords; and that, therefore, they were most unjust. He had endeavoured, and he believed he had endeavoured successfully, every where to show them, that that was an injustice towards the landlords. He believed that the landlords would be glad to get rid of these laws. The Corn-laws were represented to be something new. Why there had been Corn-laws in England since the time of Edward 3rd., and no one thought then, or long afterwards, to talk of the tax on foreign corn as unjust. It was believed to be for the good of the country. Then there was the American Government. Nobody would suppose that that Government would levy a tax to benefit a particular class at the expense of all the rest of the people. Yet there had been a tax on corn in the United
 705 s s 706 d s d s s d l l s 707 s s s s 708 s
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that all portions of the people required relief from the very heavy taxation which now oppressed them. All classes of the community were justified in making efforts to relieve themselves; but the question was, what must the Ministers do in order to be able to take off these burthens? At a county meeting in Kent, he had told the people that they must tell the Government what part of the expenditure could be reduced, and must be reduced, and that they would stand by the Government in its reduction.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, he should vote for the hon. Baronet's Motion, but not with an expectation that it would lead to any deficiency of the revenue; on the contrary, he believed that the increase of the consumption of malt would be equivalent to the amount of duty reduced.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that the opinions of the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) would not surprise this House, but they certainly would be likely to lead persons out of this House much astray as to the objects, and intentions, and interests of the agricultural portion of the community. He (Sir E. Knatchbull) was an advocate for the agricultural interest, but he never attempted to support it at the expense of any other interest. He sought for justice—he sought for right—he sought, as he was bound to do, for protection to the agricultural interest; but he sought for no monopoly, neither did he seek to enforce the rights of the agricultural interest with "unclean hands." The hon. member for Middlesex thought, perhaps, that he might gain some popularity by attacking the agricultural interest; but he could assure the hon. Member, that any such popularity would be of very short duration. No one could doubt but that the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised a partial relief to the agricultural interests; he had promised a Committee to inquire into the nature and causes of their distress; and he had only to hope that the noble Lord would not fail in the full performance of his promise. From time to time a great deal had been said about the Corn Laws; he did not on this occasion wish to open that fertile topic of discussion; and all he would now say was, that he wished it could be fairly and dispassionately considered, while his apprehensions were that it could not. Upon principle he was called upon to support the Motion of the noble Marquess, and he only regretted, that in the remission of taxes proposed by the
 688
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  was for taking off the tax, because that would be of the greatest benefit to the morals and happiness of the people. That was, in his estimation, of more consequence than enriching the Exchequer. But he rose less to speak on this topic than to advert to another subject. He entered that House with a determination to support his Majesty's Ministers, but unless they should alter their system, it was not his intention to continue that support. He was sorry to see so much vacillation in their conduct, and he hoped they would take a more decided tone. The House, he was sure, was disposed to support them, and every independent country Gentleman, like himself, would give them his hearty support if they showed an intention, as it was their duty, to fulfil the promises they had solemnly made. They were getting into a difficult and dangerous state. At the same time, they might escape by doing justice to the country. They were exposed, on the one hand, to the pitfalls set for them by open hostility and, on the other, to the snares of pretended friendship. He was sorry to see them seduced into bye-paths, in which there was no safety,
 Sir John Sebright , though connected with the landed interest, and representing a county in which perhaps more malt was made than in almost any other county in England, could not vote for the Resolution of his hon. friend, notwithstanding he was
 694
 Sir John Tyrell  was not surprised at the attack which the hon. member for Middlesex had made upon the agricultural interest. He understood that the tenants of the hon. Member, on his property, in Essex, were offering premiums for farms on other properties, in order to get away from his. Such was the encouragement which the hon. Member afforded to the agricultural interest. He would cordially support the Motion. It appeared to him that those who expressed themselves friendly to the agricultural interest, and who nevertheless opposed this Motion, took an odd way of manifesting their friendship for it.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he would not give his vote upon this occasion without some explanation. He was not for giving relief to any particular interest at the expense of other interests. He thought that all the interests of the country were equally entitled to relief. It was his intention if the Motion which stood for this night, on the part of the hon. member for Lincolnshire, for the reduction of the Malt-duty to half its present amount, should have been brought forward, to vote for it. [Sir W. Ingilby here intimated that he would bring it forward.] He (Sir J. Wrottesley) would certainly vote for it on these terms, that the House should consent to re-impose a duty on beer. It was his firm belief that the working classes derived no benefit from the reduction of the duty on beer, but that, on the contrary, the effect of that measure was that they had been deluged with poisonous filth.
 Sir William Ingilby  then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice for a reduction
 690 s 691 692 l l l s d s
 Lord Althorp  thought, that the taxes he had proposed to take off were much better selected than that mentioned by the noble Marquess. He could not object to the sentiment contained in the Resolution, but he did object to it when proposed as an Amendment upon the Motion he (Lord Althorp) had previously made. It would interfere with the progress of other measures.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it was impossible not to agree with the principle of the Motion of the noble Lord. He could not, however, quite agree with the mode of reasoning of the noble Marquess, or of the hon. Gentleman, who appeared to think that there was no relief for the cultivators of the soil, unless taxes that pressed directly upon them were removed. He was not of that opinion. So far from it, he believed that taxes which pressed directly upon them would not relieve them nor the country so much as other taxes of a more general nature. On what did the profits, emoluments, and livelihood of the cultivators of the soil depend? On the consumption of their produce. Now the taxes the removal of which would most relieve them were taxes upon the productive industry of the country, which interfered with the means of the consumption of the country. His object had been to take off those taxes, the removal of which would give the most general relief to the country; for though the amount of the relief might not be great, the comfort of the country would be increased to that amount; and by so doing, he was relieving, not only the other portions of the people, but the agricultural interest itself. He denied, however, that the reductions he had effected had been of little use to the agricultural interest. He was certain that farmers would feel considerable benefit from the reduction of the duty on tiles, as well as that upon taxed carts and bailiffs. He had before now stated why he could not remove the Malt-tax. He
 681
 Lord Althorp  said, that whatever might be the state of public opinion, and notwithstanding what had been said by his hon. friend, the member for Warwick, he must assert that he had openly and fairly stated to the House and the country the state of the finances, and he explained, as clearly as his abilities allowed him to do, how utterly impossible it was, consistent with the necessary expenses of the country, to consent to the proposed reductions without a commutation for other taxes. If then it was determined to reduce these taxes, and if the House were of opinion that a Property-tax was more advantageous it was for them to say so; but for his own part, whatever he might think of the principle of a Property-tax, he confessed that his abilities did not enable him to see through a practicable mode of an impartial and equal distribution of such a tax. There were two modes suggested of levying a Property-tax. One he understood to be a tax which would include all realized income, and he believed the hon. member for Colchester did not mean to include what he called professional income. Now the advocate of such a measure would scarcely contend that it would be a relief to the landed interests, who were said by some to be the principal sufferers. But he did not make use of that as any argument against it, nor did he then offer any argument against an equitable Property-tax; but, having considered the question attentively, he was bound to confess to the House that the difficulties which presented themselves were so great that he could not, as he said before, see his way to the formation of any plan for giving practical effect to an equitable distribution of such
 702 703 704
 Lord Althorp  felt himself called upon to offer one or two words of explanation in reference to the newspaper statement to which the hon. Gentleman had just alluded. The hon. Gentleman did him but justice in disbelieving that statement, He never said what was attributed to him. He was asked, in a (to say the least) very unusual manner, to repeal certain taxes. On his declining, he was reminded that he had on a former occasion, when out of office, voted for the repeal of the same taxes. His answer was, a statement of the grounds on which he had voted on the
 711
 Lord Althorp  said, that he was certain the intention of the hon. Mover of the Resolution was not to embarrass the Government, but to carry a measure of his own. Notwithstanding, he admitted that what had taken place that night would place his Majesty's Ministers in a state of considerable embarrassment; yet after the decision that the House had just come to, though the majority was not very large, he did not feel himself disposed to offer any further opposition on that occasion, to the hon. Baronet's Resolution.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that connected as he was with the agricultural interest, he must enter his protest against the assumption of the noble Marquess that those who voted against this measure were hostile to that interest. The advocates for this Motion were not able to propose any plan of relief for the agricultural interest that would be consistent with the maintenance of that good faith that was due to the public creditor, and with the maintenance of the general interests of the country. He would vote against the Motion of the noble Marquess, the effect of which, if it should be carried, would be to make an impression that the country was hostile to the whole of the Budget that had been brought forward by his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that his noble friend had done as much as he could in the way of reduction of taxation, taking into consideration what was due to the different interests of the country. At the same time he trusted that his noble friend would find it practicable, without any derangement of his Budget, to do that which would afford a material relief to the agricultural interest—namely,
 686
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to express his deep regret to find that there was any intention to get rid of the vote of the House of Commons, on a motion of the greatest importance to the country at large. The House could not have been taken by surprise by the hon. Baronet's (Sir William Ingilby's) Motion. They must have been prepared for it; but what he most regretted was, that there should be any attempt on the part of a Minister of the Crown in that Reformed House, from which so much was expected, to set aside the vote come to on that occasion; that Members should be told they voted improperly, and that he would give them
 730
 Mr. Tennyson  said, undoubtedly the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) was best qualified to give a construction to what he did say, or intended to say, on the previous occasion referred to, and although he (Mr. Tennyson) was ready to accept the explanation which had been given, yet, he must say, that it was uniformly circulated through the Press, and was the general understanding of the Members in the House, that the noble Lord would, notwithstanding the smallness of the majority, feel it to be his duty to carry the Resolution into effect [" no, no! yes, yes! 731
 Mr. Baring , as far as he was concerned, would not give encouragement to further discussion on the Malt-tax; but having been one of those who thought it fit to vote in favour of the reduction of the Malt-duty, he thought it proper to say, that the declaration of the noble Lord, as it struck him, might have been taken by hon. Gentlemen either to mean one thing or the other. He meant in what he said, and which had excited such merriment, that the noble Lord, when he declared he should abide by the resolution, meant that he either would not negative it on the question being a second time put from the Chair, or that Government would abide by it. The declaration might, without stretch, have been interpreted either way, but no Gentleman could suppose that the noble Lord meant, without consultation with his colleagues, to bind Government as to the course they would take on so important a question. The noble Lord had given his notice for to-morrow, and what the noble Lord proposed was, "would they have the repeal of the Malt-tax, and the House and Window tax, and were they prepared to take, in substitution of them, a tax on property and income"—not a tax on property alone, or income alone, but a tax on property and income? Undoubtedly that was a question most important for the country to consider, and if he had any objection to it, it was the short notice that had been given of it. He was perfectly aware that the case might be considered one of pressure, and especially as the worthy Alderman's Motion stood for to-morrow. But the question had never been fairly put to the House, and, with most unfeigned sincerity he would say, that he could not see how it could properly be discussed at so short a warning. With great reluctance should he be brought within twenty-four hours' notice, to determine a question of such conclusive importance to the future happiness and prosperity of the country. It would be most necessary to consult the opinions of their constituents and the country upon it. He was bound to say he never saw much wisdom in a commutation of taxes. He always thought that such propositions were altogether visionary, and replete with danger, mischief, and loss,
 737
 Colonel Maberly  rose to propose the Ordnance Estimates, which he said were similar to those which had been proposed on previous occasions; but he trusted, that he should satisfy the House, that every endeavour had been made to reduce the expense as far as was practicable. Indeed, he might say that a most material diminution of the expense of these Estimates had been effected since the last year's accounts. The gallant Member then entered into a comparative statement of the amount of the expenditure in preceding years, as contrasted with that of 1833and 1834. It appeared that in 1729 the Estiraatesamountedtol,500,000 l l l l l l l l l
 Colonel Maberly  maintained, that the present amount of men was hardly adequate to the wants of the service. The Master-General had five demands from the colonies for artillerymen; but owing to the paucity of men, was only able to comply with two of them.
 An Hon. Member did not mean to disparage the merits of Mr. Marshall's work, but he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him, that hon. Members, instead of putting their own hands into their own pockets for the price of this volume, should seek to make the country pay the price of it for them. The notoriety which the work would get from the publication of this debate would be worth more to the compiler than the whole sum which the hon. member for Middlesex now proposed to give him. He should undoubtedly oppose the grant.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that there was in favour of this grant the singular circumstance that it was recommended by his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, the great champion of economy upon all occasions. It was also recommended by the
 748 l
 An Hon. Member  said that this volume was but a pocket edition of the library of the House; and yet hon. Gentlemen seemed inclined to impose upon the public a charge of 2,600 l
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that as he had opposed the Resolution in the Committee, he would slate the grounds upon
 749 proprio motu l
 Mr. Wynn  was inclined to support the grant. He had expected to have heard a more decided opinion given upon it than that which had been given by the noble Lord opposite, upon whom, in his character of Chancellor of the Exchequer, he looked as the guardian of the public purse. He had not seen the work of Mr. Marshall before that evening, but from what he had seen of it, he should say, that it was a work of first-rate utility, which loudly called for public encouragement. The right hon. Gentleman opposite seemed to imagine that, because it was worthy of public encouragement, it would therefore meet it;
 750 Hatsell's Precedents
 Lord John Russell  said, that he felt it his duty, as Chairman of the Committee on Public Documents, to state the grounds upon which that Committee had come to their recommendation. He certainly differed from the Committee as to the propriety of such a recommendation; for he preferred giving a certain sum of money to Mr. Marshall for the completion of this work, to giving him 2,600 l l l l
 Mr. Charles Buller  presented a petition from the electors of Launceston, in the county of Cornwall, complaining that bribery had been used at the last election for that borough, and that they were only prevented from proving it before the House, by the enormous expense which attended the taking of evidence before Election Committees. He must disclaim all feeling of personal hostility against the Gallant General (Sir Henry Hardinge), who had been the successful candidate for that borough. He was most unwilling also to give any pain to the noble Duke (Northumberland), who was said to nominate the hon. member for Launceston. His sole object was, to show that there existed what the petitioners considered a constitutional abuse. The first statement in the petition was highly deserving the attention of the House, that, in consequence of the great and enormous expense which was incurred by Election Committees, they could not prove the existence at the last election of the bribery which the petition alleged. The petition then went on to pray that the constituency might be increased by extending the limits of the borough. The petition also prayed that a Commission should be sent down to inquire into the existence of bribery at the last election, and that the evidence might be taken on the spot. The hon. Member, in supporting the prayer of the petition, stated, that he was aware he made himself obnoxious to those who advocated the "finality" of the Reform Bill; but he for one had never conceded the monstrous principle that any legislative measure was to be final; still less had he ever conceded the still more monstrous principle, that the Members of that House were entitled by any sort of compromise to barter away the rights and privileges of the people. The Reform Bill, he considered, would be a mere mockery to the people of England if it did not, to use the language of Lord Grey in the House of Lords, "put an end to the system of nomination," and introduce in its room that of representation. It was not, however, against the Reform Bill, but against the Boundary Bill, that he urged objection; and it surely would not be said that Lieut. Drummond's Bill was to be a final measure against the whole people. He wished the boundaries of the borough to be enlarged. He almost wished that no assertion had been made as to the existence of bribery, as he wished to confine
 724
 Mr. Buller  interrupted the hon. and gallant Officer, by saying, that there was no charge of bribery. Indeed, he believed, that there was not the slightest suspicion of bribery against the hon. and gallant Officer.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he had no desire to place the noble Lord in a dilemma and contradiction, but it appeared to him to be of some importance to consider how the noble Lord stood with the House, and it was a matter of great importance that it should be generally understood what the noble Lord did say at the close of Friday night. He would state the impression which was then made upon him by what the noble Lord said, and he had paid great attention to what had fallen from the noble Lord. He believed that the noble Lord's words were these—that though the majority was small, yet that he felt certainly bound to acquiesce in the passing of the
 732 No no 733
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the excellence of this work should not rest any longer upon the unsupported  ipse dixit
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that with regard to the statements that had been made as to intimidation, and rewards and punishments, that had been held out, he must observe, that, at the late election, two members of Mr. Howell's Committee
 728
 Sir Henry Hardinge  read an extract from the former petition, in which himself,
 725 726 l l l l 727
 Sir Henry Hardinge : It is false. If the hon. Member means to assert, and continues to assert, that the Duke of Northumberland is the arch-criminal in those demoralizing practices, I will again meet it in the way I have done, and characterise such an assertion as being false.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that if the hon. Member still persisted in that assertion, he must reprobate it in the strongest terms of indignation the forms of the House would allow him to use.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  thought the speech of the hon. Member was not so much for the purpose of doubting the legality of the election, as it was to exhibit a desire to attack the Reform Bill. With regard to the Reform Bill, he (Sir H. Hardinge) had opposed it to the utmost; but as it was now the law of the land, he should do all he could to remedy any defect that it had. He did not, however, agree, that it was necessary on all occasions on which the petitioners might happen to be defeated, that they should claim a large extension of boundary. The petitioners were those who opposed him at the election; and the first signature was that of Mr. Howell, whom he defeated; and the next that of Thomas Pierce, who was Mr. Howell's electioneering agent—a gentleman of whom, on a recent occasion, it had been said, that he had redeemed sixty years of Toryism by three years of Radicalism. He (Sir H. Hardinge) most distinctly denied, on behalf of himself, his agents, or his friends, that there was one single instance of bribery or corruption at his election. The House would recollect that a petition had been presented, charging him, his agents, and friends, with bribery; and yet, after waiting three months, and Mr. Pierce being the agent—
 Mr. Warburton  was proud to add his testimony in favour of this work to the testimony which had been already given by his two hon. friends, the members for Middlesex and Tynemouth.
 Mr. Benett  confirmed, from his own recollection, the explanation already made by Lord Althorp of the meaning and terms of his statement on Friday night.
 Mr. Briscoe  rose to order, and expressed his regret, that whilst the Estimates were under consideration, and the amount of the expenditure of the country about to be fixed, a constant noise should be kept up in the House. It was the duty of hon. Members to watch the Estimates closely, with the view of seeing whether any reduction could be effected in their amount, for the reduction of the Estimates was one mode by which they might hope to lessen the taxation of the country. It would be only decorous to pay some degree of attention to the business before the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  said, he believed he was only losing time in addressing the Committee.
 742
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was sorry to observe the inattention with which the statement of the gallant Member had been received—a statement referring to a subject of such immense importance. He could not compliment the gallant Member on the point on which he seemed to pique himself—namely, introducing the Estimates in the plan adopted by all his predecessors. In his opinion, the House ought to come to the determination of suiting the expenditure to the income, and not regulate the income to the expenditure. Unless this determination were come to by the House, he must say they would not be doing justice to the country, and he was sorry to see that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not yet taken the hint. He disliked the whole system on which the Ordnance was conducted, nor did he think that any serious discussion upon the Estimates would be productive of a beneficial result. They had voted the amount of the army, and a proportional amount of artillery must
 741 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that his reduced vote would be 1,000 men more than was found wanting in 1792.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he objected to the amount of the vote, but from the result of the late division, he concluded it would be useless to offer any opposition to the grant. He thought that as the House seemed determined not to support any proposition for reduction, the sooner it closed its doors the better.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would take the sense of the House on the vote. For the last nine years promises had been made by successive Chancellors of the Exchequer that this system of fees should be abolished; and yet it continued to the
 744
 Mr. Hume  said, that this service was kept up on the highest war scale, and that half the number of men would in these times of peace, answer all the purposes for which an artillery was required. He would therefore move as an amendment, and that the number of men should be reduced from 6,000 to 4,000 or as a
 743 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that if he was to believe all that he was told, a measure had been in preparation for the last nine years. Would the noble Lord fix a day for the introduction of the measure he spoke of? The system of paying fees to public officers on the payment or receipt of public money was most abominable, and ought to be put an end to.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether he was to understand that the noble Lord was pledged to bring his Bill in, and pass it during the present Session?
 Mr. Hume  said, that he wished to call the attention of the House to a matter of much public importance, of which he had previously given notice. To those who had been as long in that House as he had been, and who had laboured as sedulously in the public service, it would not be necessary for him to address many observations to prove the difficulty which attended all investigations connected with matters of finance, and how much the public in general, and the Members of that House in particular, must feel themselves indebted to any person undertaking any work calculated to facilitate those investigations. The House would recollect that a Committee had some time ago been appointed, and had made a report upon
 745 l 746 l l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  in supporting the grant, eulogized the fitness of Mr. Marshall for the important work which he had undertaken, and all but completed. That work had been of inestimable use to the hon. member for Middlesex, who had found his labours greatly facilitated by referring to the well-digested accounts contained in its pages.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  had understood the noble Lord precisely as the noble Marquess the member for Buckinghamshire. He had listened attentively to the noble Lord, and, after the vote was decided, the words which fell upon his ear from the lips of the noble Lord were these; "That the vote had placed the Government in a state of considerable embarrassment; but, after the vote to which the House had come, he could not think of offering any opposition to the carrying of it into effect."[" No, no 735
 Mr. Methuen  was hostile to this grant. He was surprised that the hon. member for Middlesex, who had so often depicted the distress of the country in the most
 747 l ipse dixit
 Mr. Hall Dare  said, he had not had the good fortune to be present on Friday night, but he concurred with the hon. member for Wolverhampton, that after the decision on that night, notwithstanding the explanation of the noble Lord as to his meaning on that particular question, it would be a bad precedent if an attempt were made to rescind a vote to which the House had deliberately come. The noble Lord had called upon the House to look with their eyes open on the alternative he would present them. As an independent Member of the House, he was prepared to look at the subject with his eyes open. He was prepared to vote for a property tax, and to consider the existing taxation of the country, for he believed that a Property tax was the most equitable tax, it being but just that those who had property to protect should contribute principally to the exigences of the State. He agreed with the hon. member for Lambeth that the reduction of the Malt-tax would place Ministers under the necessity of providing some other tax in its stead. It was necessary that the revenue should be maintained, that faith should be kept with the public creditor, and that the establishments of the country should also be maintained. Looking, however, at our foreign policy, at the state of our foreign relations, at the state of the East of Europe, at our West India Colonies, and at the unfortunate state of Ireland—looking at all these interests, he thought the noble Lord could not dispense with the present amount of revenue. He was perfectly ready to vote for a Property-tax as a substitute for the Malt-tax. As to the Malt-tax, he should, if he had been present on Friday evening, have voted for the Motion of the hon. Baronet; but he should have done so with regret, as he only considered it a half measure. He, for one, was ready to reduce the whole of the Malt-tax, and substitute a Property-tax in its stead. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham in the opinion, that if they reduced the tax 10 s s s 736 s
 Mr. Slaney  considered that the important nature of this work rendered it true economy to make this grant.
 The Speaker  said, that all the right hon. Baronet meant was, that if such an assertion were made, he would deny the truth of it in the strongest language that the forms of the House would allow. But the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to use any language which would be disorderly.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that he felt it necessary, in consequence of what had fallen from the two hon. Members who had just spoken, to address a few words to the House. He considered that his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had explained precisely the terms which he had used on Friday night. He (Sir John Wrottesley) was just behind his noble friend at the time, and he understood him exactly in the way in which he had now stated his meaning to the House. He was sure that the mistake must have arisen in consequence of a misapprehension by hon. Gentlemen of the mode in which the question was put in that House—a mode which was certainly ambiguous, and liable to misapprehension. The first question put on the occasion referred to was, "that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question." Upon that question the division took place; but after it was carried in the negative, then came the main question—"that the words 'it is the opinion of this House that the duty on malt be reduced to 10 s 734
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished to call the attention of the House to a most objectionable system of raising money which had recently been practised, and to which that House had been a party. He alluded to the Glasgow Lottery. A Bill for effecting certain improvements in Glasgow had passed that House during the last Session as a private Bill, but he believed that it was unknown to either the Government or any hon. Gentlemen present, except those intrusted with the conduct of the measure, that its object was by establishing a lottery to raise funds. This, however, turned out to be the fact, and he therefore, wished to suggest to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether they ought not to adopt some means of preventing private bills from passing without the House being apprised of their object.
 Sir Robert Peel : If the lottery is not yet drawn the Bill may be repealed. [" It is drawn.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he should follow the example of his hon. friend, and postpone giving any detailed opinion upon the great question which was to come on for discussion tomorrow night till the proper time arrived. He would observe, however, with respect to the event which had brought on the present discussion, that if he had been present on Friday night, which accident alone prevented him from being, he should have given his most decided opposition to the proposition for reducing the Malt-tax. He should have done so, not because he did not entertain a sincere desire to see that tax abated, if possible, but because he should have looked forward to the consequences of a partial abatement of that tax, and to its bearing on the question of the Corn-laws, and upon the question of the substitution of a Property-tax, which latter measure would consitute of itself a complete revolution in the financial system of the country. He, for one, would not consent to inflict an injury upon the public creditor by voting for the repeal of any one tax until he felt assured of obtaining a substitute for it. With regard to the success of establishing a Property and Income-tax in substitution of other taxes, he entertained very serious doubts. He did not mean to say, that virtually to rescind in one night a vote to which the House had come on another was a course free from evil, but he thought that a far greater evil would result from the maintenance of the doctrine that questions of such immense importance should be finally determined by a House consisting of only half the number of the whole House. He knew not for what all the regulations for the conduct
 738
 Sir William Ingilby  asked the noble Lord what he intended to do respecting the vote which the House had come to last Friday night? He could assure the House, that he had not brought forward his motion with any view of embarrassing Ministers. The Resolution having been carried by a majority, the manner in which the noble Lord had taken it up had gone through the country, and the country expected that the measure would be carried into effect. He asked if it was the intention of the noble Lord to carry that Resolution into effect, or what it was the noble Lord intended to do?
 Sir William Molesworth  said, that if what the right hon. Baronet had stated was the fact, he felt more indignant at such a use of his name than words could express.
 Sir William Molesworth  would still assert that the Duke of Northumberland was the principal cause of intimidation in the borough, and that the system pursued created much immorality.
 Sir William Molesworth  would still adhere to his assertion.
 Sir William Molesworth  said, without an increase in the constituency, Launceston would be a mere nomination borough—this was not his opinion only, but that of ninety-nine out of every 100 of his constituents. He did not accuse the hon. and gallant Baronet of those practices; in fact, he believed that he was quite unaware of them; but he would assert that they were carried on. In his opinion, the person who caused them was as bad as the person who practised them. There was intimidation at Launceston, and that led to immorality. The chief cause was the Duke of Northumberland, and he was the arch-criminal.
 Lord Althorp  said: I am quite persuaded that every Gentleman in the House must be anxious to hear what I wish to state on the present occasion. The decision of the House on Friday being very peculiar, considering the circumstances under which it took place, has, as I stated at the time, placed Government under great embarrassment; and after taking this question into our consideration, his Majesty's Ministers have felt it desirable to bring the question again before the House, and in such a manner that the whole state of the case may be fairly brought forward, and that the House may see clearly all the consequences which must take place, in consequence of the proceeding of Friday night, and come to a decision with their eyes open. That decision may be precisely the same as that which they came to before, or it may differ from it; but there is a necessity for a clear understanding upon this subject. Sir, with this view, and believing that this will be the mode which will conduce most to this end, I now give notice, that it is my intention to move as an amendment to the motion of the hon. Baronet, the member for the City of London, to-morrow evening, this Resolution, which I will read now, in order that it may be placed on the votes of the House, that hon. Gentlemen may have the opportunity of considering the effect of it:—"That the deficiency of the Revenue which would be occasioned by a reduction of the tax on malt to 10 s 729
 Lord Althorp  then moved, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 Lord Althorp  said, there had been some misunderstanding respecting what he (Lord Althorp) had said on Friday night. What he did then say—at all events what he meant to say, and what he believed he did say in so many words—was, that although the question was carried by a very small majority, he would not take advantage of another division the same evening, as he might have done, after the previous division, by again dividing the House on the main question. He felt as other Gentlemen, who had been accustomed to such matters had always felt, that he might, if he thought proper, divide the House more than once, but he would not take the chance of Gentlemen coming in after the first division, in order to obtain a second division. As to what he intended to do, he should have thought the Motion of which he had just given notice would have been sufficient.
 Lord Althorp  said, that an hon. friend of his had objected to the shortness of the notice he had given for the Motion he intended to submit to the House; but if his hon. friend considered the situation in which the affairs of the country would be placed while the decision of such a question stood over, he was sure he would not think the notice too short. In the Resolution which he had read to the House he had distinctly stated that the imposition of a Property-tax would be at present inexpedient.
 Lord Althorp  said, the measure he alluded to had not been in preparation for nine years, though he admitted that it had been some time under consideration. It was not, however, surprising that a measure, the purpose of which was to effect a general arrangement with regard to the Exchequer, should take a long time in the preparation; but he could inform the hon. member for Middlesex that the Bill was now in a state of great forwardness.
 Lord Althorp  hoped that the House would not object to this vote for the present year, when he stated that a measure was in preparation which would abolish all those fees.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that his Majesty's Government had not the least idea that a Bill authorizing the establishment of a lottery had passed the Houses of Parliament, until he was apprised of the existence of the lottery itself. His attention was then drawn to the subject, and, on looking at the Act he found that no allusion was made to the lottery in its title, and that the word "lottery" itself never once occurred throughout the Act. It was, to say the truth, most skilfully drawn up, and the parties who had concocted it had fully succeeded in keeping the House and the Government entirely ignorant of the real nature of the Bill. He could only say, that as far as the Government was concerned, no countenance nor assistance had been given to the act in question.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if he had considered the Estimates which had been submitted to the House were greater than the service of the State required, he would have followed the precedent to which the hon. member for Middlesex had alluded, but by so doing he should be admitting that he had consented to the introduction of estimates which were larger than the exigencies of the case required. He was still of opinion that the public service required the establishments which he had proposed, and that being his opinion, he should not feel himself justified in acting upon the suggestion of the hon. Member. In answer to the question of the hon. Member, he begged leave to state that the establishments in Pall-mall, and at the Tower, had not been consolidated, because different classes of services were brought under supervision of those establishments, the commingling of which would be injurious to the public interests.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was inclined to leave the vote to the general feeling of the House whether the proposed grant of money was, under the circumstances of the case, justifiable. He did not mean to deny that great ability and industry had been displayed by Mr. Marshall in the compilation of the materials of his work; but it should be borne in mind that that gentleman had already received a grant of 500 l l
 Lord Althorp  pledged himself to bring it in, but he could not pledge himself to pass it.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that the hon. Gentleman opposite could not have heard the speech of his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the occasion to which he had alluded, or he would have found that his noble friend distinctly said
 739
 Lord Sandon  assured the noble Lord that if he had stated the considerations on Friday last which he had that night submitted to the House, a different conclusion would, no doubt, have been come to. He would take that opportunity, as a sincere friend of the present Government and an advocate for their remaining in office, of entreating them to come forward more frequently and state more at large their views on great public questions, especially as there were so many new Members in the House, who, of course, were not very well acquainted with the bearing of such questions as older Members.
 Lord Sandon  said, that before the Committee proceeded to a division he should propose that 500 l l l l
 Sir John Key  said, that although hon. Members were anxiously awaiting the result of the Motion which he should have the honour of submitting for the consideration of the House, he was glad that a short delay had taken place, as Ministers must now see from the numerous petitions presented, that all parts of the country were impatient of these taxes. He should have been well pleased if some Member of greater talent and experience had undertaken a task, which, in his hands, would be, he feared, but feebly executed. Representing, however, one of the largest districts peculiarly aggrieved by the cruelty and injustice of the House and Window-taxes, he trusted, that in moving for their repeal he should not be accused of vanity and presumption, and that hon. Members would grant him more than usual indulgence while he addressed them on the subject, and not allow the strength of the claims of the industrious classes for redress, to be impaired by the inefficiency with which they were advocated. The House-tax at present in force purported to be assessed, as hon. Members were aware, upon the annual value of all inhabited houses above 10 l l l s d l l s d l s d 759 s s l s d 760 ad valorem 761 l l l l s d 762 l l l l l l 763 764 765 766 l s d l s d l s d 767 l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  rose to second the Motion, He adverted to the large number of persons who were interested in the repeal of these taxes, and to whom (the shopkeepers especially), in consequence of the great distress which prevailed among them it would prove a most seasonable relief. At the deputation which had been before alluded to, the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had been told, that in a very public situation, one shopkeeper out of every three had either become bankrupt or insolvent, or had compounded with his creditors. Indeed the records of the Courts of Bankruptcy and Insolvency would give but a very inadequate idea of the distress which existed amongst tradesmen; for, in consequence of the manner in which these Courts were regulated, large numbers preferred compounding to applying there for relief. It had been said, that this tax would be a relief principally to landlords. That was,
 768 Hon. Member: l oh! oh!" and a laugh 769 l l
 Lord Althorp  said, the proposition with which I shall have the honour of concluding, is certainly one of a very extraordinary nature—and one which I admit is liable to great objections. I, therefore, feel it necessary, before I enter into the consideration of the substance of the Resolution which I shall move, to explain to the House the circumstances of this case, and to state the reasons on which I feel myself compelled to take the course which I feel it my duty to take on the present occasion. The division which took place on Friday last, I am not going to call a complete surprise upon the House. Notice was certainly on the books that such a proposition would be brought forward; but Gentlemen must recollect, that for the evening in question, there were four notices on the Order Book; and every Gentleman acquainted with the forms of the House, must know, that on the question of going into a Committee of Supply, only two Motions can be made—one on the Order of the Day, and the other on the question, that the Speaker do leave the Chair. Therefore, I myself did not expect the Motion of my hon. friend, the member for Lincolnshire, would have been brought forward that evening. One of the Motions which preceded it, that of the hon. member for Oldham—went off in consequence of his not having given notice in the proper form. The hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) withdrew his Motion, and for that reason the Motion of the hon. member for Lincolnshire came on. The number of Members in the House when the question was decided, did not amount to one-half of the whole number. The Motion was supported by several Gentle-
 770 771 l l 772 l l 773 774 775 776 s
 Mr. Hume  said, that, differing as he did in opinion from the noble Lord, he hoped the House would allow him to detain them for a very short time, while he endeavoured to show them that the deficiency which would arise from the repeal of the taxes in question could be made up, without adopting the expedient pointed out by the noble Lord. No one was more anxious than he was, to maintain the credit of the country. He hoped, therefore, that it would not be supposed that anything which he should propose was intended to hurt the public creditor; for that anything which could have that effect would inflict a great evil on the country. The noble Lord considered that the deficiency could be made good in no way but by a Property and Income-tax. With respect to the Income-tax, it had been disagreeable and unpopular, more among the higher classes than among the lower. There was great reason to believe that the great outcry which in that House was raised against the tax, proceeded principally from the higher classes. There was no doubt that the measures necessary for enforcing it were rather inquisitorial; but in what direct tax was the case otherwise,
 777 l l l l l 778 s s l l l s s s d s d s d l l l l 779 s d s l l l d 780 s d l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 781 l l l l l 782 l s
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  said, he wished that on a question of such importance the suggestion of his hon. friend the member for Essex had been adopted, and time given to the Members of the House to consult the wishes of their constituents.
 783 784 l l l l l l l l l 785
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. member for Middlesex, and he could not at all gather from his arguments how the deficiency was to be made up in any other way than by a Property-tax. Recollecting well the period when the first Property-tax was laid on, and the various debates which took place in Parliament and out of it, he would take the liberty of shortly calling the attention of the House to the situation of the country, the Minister, and the effects of the tax, at the time. The hon. member for Middlesex had argued that taxes might be diminished without any injury to the revenue, and had adduced, as a proof of his statement, that when the duty on wine was diminished the revenue increased. But the hon. Member ought to bear in mind that it was quite a different thing to make a reduction such as that which had been made on the wine duties, and substitute an uncertain tax for two most important and certain taxes. The hon. Member proposed a tax of one percent, on real property when descending from one person to another. Now he thought it must be obvious the amount which could be raised by such means would fall far short of the necessities of the State. A great part of the property of the country was entailed, and, in many instances, property was in the hands of trustees, so that the proprietor might die while the property would still remain in the same hands. Such a tax he considered as one surrounded by great difficulties, and not at all likely to come up to the expectations of the hon. Member. Looking at the state of the Revenue—at the reduction of a million and a-half this year, in addition to the reduction of former years, he was quite convinced that if further reduction were to be made without some equivalent, the fundholder would become rather anxious about the payment of his dividends. It ought also to be borne in mind that the Resolution of the noble Lord was not directed against a Property-tax under every circumstance, but applied merely to its inexpediency at the present time. And could any one say that there were not several important questions before the House which must be disposed of this Session—such as the Bank Charter, the
 786 l l l l s d s 787 l l l l l s d l l l 788 s d l l l l
 Mr. Robinson  must say, that he thought the speech of the hon. Baronet was extremely inconsistent, and was rather calculated to support the Motion of the hon. Baronet, the member for London, than to oppose it. He did not blame the noble Lord for the manner in which he had treated this question. Indeed the noble Lord had put the question on a fair, candid, and manly footing, when he called on the House to consider all the consequences of the vote of the other night. But then there were so many things mixed up with that matter. First of all, the House were called on to consider the expediency of rescinding the vote of the other night come to in a full House—at least in a House of not less than 300 Members, which was a greater number than usually sanctioned their proceedings.
 789 790 * * 791
 Mr. Benett  said, that he always felt he owed a debt of gratitude to the present Administration for the noble manner in which they had conducted themselves
 792 793 794
 Mr. Cobbett : I am sorry to interpose between the House and the speech of the hon. and learned Member; [Mr. Serjeant Spankie who had risen at the same time with Mr. Cobbett] but I hope he will hereafter find a time for making it. It seems to me as if every Gentleman who has addressed the Chair to-night sedulously kept out of view the only important point to be decided, viz. the character of this House. My opinion is, that if the House rescinds the resolution of Friday last, the consequences to the country may be most fatal. Be it observed, too, that the noble Lord says not a word about resigning his Amendment: that he has sedulously kept out of view also; but I shall make a few further remarks upon that before I conclude. Various observations have fallen from hon. Members which it is necessary for me to touch; and I believe I must go backwards with them, as my memory will serve me better that way than any other. First, the hon. member for South Wilts, said a great deal about a Property tax, but nothing distinct as regards a plan—nothing that could be very clearly understood and defined. However, he quoted an authority; and men should be very careful when they quote authorities that they are good for something. What they tender us as the results of their own judgment, that we are bound to respect—and, generally speaking, it is worthy of it; but he told us, that he had Mr. Ricardo's authority in favour of a Property-tax. Do not let us forget, however, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) had Mr. Ricardo's authority that his Bill of 1819 only reduced prices three and a half percent, while the hon. member for South Wilts himself must know that it reduced them a vast deal more. Therefore he should pause a little before he relied upon such an authority as the said Mr. Ricardo. It is always dan-
 795 796 797 l l 798 "Fine words! I wonder where you stole 'em." l l 799 mouvement mouvement 800 sub-delegues s s l 801 l l l l l 802 803
 Mr. Spring Rice  admitted, that if that House were to forfeit its character and dignity, it would greatly injure the Constitution; but the question was, would they do so by the course now proposed by his noble friend? He had heard many fine phrases and illustrations borrowed from Roman and English history, but they were intended to draw them away from the real question before the House, and had no reference whatever to its character and dignity. What was it they were now called upon to do by the resolution of his noble friend—to repeal any law?—No; though there had been instances of the Parliament repealing a law passed in the same session;—to throw out a Bill which had been brought in, or to rescind a motion for leave to bring in a Bill?—Nothing of the kind. What, then, was the fact? Why, that a notice of motion, which stood after two others that were expected to take a long time, but which had been given up, was brought forward, contrary to the general expectation, and had been carried by a very small majority, and this resolution, carried under such
 804 l l l l l 805 806 
 
 Number of Inhabited Houses in Great Britain 
 England 2,323,141 
 Wales 153,698 
 Scotland 369,340 
 2,846,179 
 Number charged to the Inhabited House-tax (or little more than 1–7). 430,617 
 Free from House-tax 2,415,562 
 Number charged to Window-tax (little more than 1–7) 377,471 
 Number exempt from Window-tax 2,468,708 
 
 Inhabited House Duty 
 Total number charged to Inhabited House-duty in Great Britain. 
 £ £ Rate. No. 
 From 10 to 20 … 1 s 6 d … 215,233 
 20 to 40 … 2 s 3 d … 131,676 
 40 upwards … 2 s 10 d … 83,708 
 430,617 
 Number not charged to House duty … 2,415,562 
 
 Numbers of Houses charged to window Tax in Great Britain 
 Total, including 3,685 chandlers at inns of court and colleges 377,471 
 3,685 
 Houses and number of windows 373,786 
 From 8 to 49 36,918 
 50 to 99 4,891 
 100 to 149 687 
 150 and upwards 290 
 5,868 
 Add chambers 3,685 
 Total houses charged to Window-tax. 377,471 
 Number of houses not charged 2,468,708 
 Total number of houses 2,846,179 807 l l l 
 
 Devonshire House £2,500 
 Northumberland do. 1,500 
 Stafford 3,900 
 Hertford 1,500 
 Chesterfield 2,000 
 Lansdown 1,650 
 Apsley 1,850 
 The House of the hon. member for Essex 1,320 
 Norfolk House 1,000 
 Burlington 1,300 808 
 
 Amount assessed to the Window Duty on the undermentioned Houses, for the year ending 
 — No. of Windows. Duty paid at present scale. Duty which would be payable at the scale chargeable on 10 Windows. 
 £ s. d. £ s. d. 
 Harewood-house 168 42 17 9 17 10 0 
 Lowther-castle 180 46 11 3 18 15 0 
 Stowe 261 52 12 9 27 3 9 
 Chatsworth 280 54 1 3 29 3 4 
 Petworth 350 59 6 3 36 9 2 
 Eaton-hall 365 60 8 9 38 0 5 
 Longleat 453 67 0 9 47 3 9 
 Wentworth-house 480 69 1 3 50 0 0 
 Woburn-abbey 511 71 7 9 53 4 9 
 Blenheim 722 90 19 3 81 8 4 
 Total 3,820 614 7 0 398 18 6 
 
 Present Scale 
 Windows. Per Window. Total. 
 s d £ s d 
 8 … 2 0¾ … 0 16 6 
 10 … 2 9½ … 1 8 0 
 20 … 5 7¼ … 5 12 3 
 30 … 6 6½ … 9 16 3 
 40 … 7 5½ … 14 18 9 
 50 … 6 10¾ … 17 5 0 
 100 … 5 10¼ … 29 8 6 
 150 … 5 5 1–50 … 40 12 9 
 
 Windows. Under Scale of Excess paid under present Scale. 
 s d £ s d 
 40 … 2 1 … 4 3 4 
 50 … 2 1 … 5 4 2 
 100 … 2 1 … 10 8 4 
 150 … 2 1 … 15 12 6 l s d l l s l s d l s l s d l l s d Question 809 s d s s d s d s d s d Hear! 810
 An Hon. Members  said, he was anxious to explain, as early as possible, his vote of the other night, and to declare now that, notwithstanding that vote, he was inclined to support the Amendment of the noble Lord. He would tell hon. Members, that he considered he was doing his duty, as a
 811
 Colonel Wood  said, he would trespass on the attention of the House but for a very few moments. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, that it was very impolitic to argue one great question against another; and, at the same time, he admitted, that, as some hon. Members more sent to that House to represent particular interests, they could not well decline representing them. When he was asked to vote for a Property-tax, he distinctly understood that he was asked to vote for an Income-tax [ Cries of No no s 812
 Mr. Serjeant Spankie  was understood to say, that the vote of Friday night last had placed the Members of that House in a situation of great difficulty, and he wished to God that Ministers had had, on that occasion, the assistance of the eloquent speech that had been just delivered by the right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury Bench. If Government had been strengthened on that night by the aid of those who ought to assist them, they would not have met with so signal and so melancholy a defeat. He never recollected to have listened to so languid a debate as the one of that night; it seemed to be a match between the Treasury and the Country Gentlemen, of which the other Members of the House were but passive spectators. Though there might be many hon. Members for a repeal of the Malt-duty, there were many who had a horror of a Property or Income-tax, and he confessed himself one of the latter. He knew not what to say of the noble Lord's dexterity in proposing the Amendment before the House, more than that it threatened the country with a curse, and was, as it were, giving them up to the wolf when they were menaced with a Property-tax. Now, with respect to that tax, however plausible it seemed, whatever appearance of equality it seemed to carry with it, it was like all projects of equality, containing within itself the same germs of the disorder of society. Though he was well aware of the evils of an Income-tax, still he would acknowledge, that some relief ought to be given to the burthens of taxation; and, though he was prepared to vote for a repeal of the House and Window taxes, he thought nothing short of insanity could advise, as a substitute for them, an Income-tax. The minds of the people were fixed upon the House and Window taxes, and they were led to believe, that their repeal would be one of the first acts of a Reformed Parliament. There were several heavy taxes which pressed upon the metropolis, and were the cause of making trade retrograde. Those taxes did not press on the 10 l 813
 Sir John Tyrell  would not give a silent vote on the present occasion, and would state why he voted for the reduction of the duty on malt. He was sorry, however, that he could not learn, from what had fallen from the hon. and learned Serjeant, what was the substitute he proposed for the Assessed Taxes. Why he had voted for a reduction of the Malt-tux was, because he considered Ministers had not given a due consideration to the agricultural interest, and that the petitions of the landholders had not met at their hands the attention they had a right to expect. As that measure, favourable to the landed interests, came on before anything was projected in their favour, he thought it his duty to vote for it. However, in saying this, he would also say, that he went the whole length with those who thought that a Property-tax and an Income-tax were one and the same thing, and would be measures of confiscation. Since his vote for the reduction of the Malt-tax, he had seen his constituents, and their great delight at that reduction could not be mistaken. Those constituents were not Radicals nor Tories—they were ignorant of any party, but they received with pleasure the vote of Friday night, as they considered it beneficial to the country. For himself, he disclaimed the imputation of grasping at, or scrambling for, a system of taxation that would be of service to him. He was actuated by one motive, and only consulted the good of the agricultural interests. It was his intention to vote against the proposition of the hon. Baronet for the repeal of the Assessed Taxes, though, at the same time, he did not like the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to state shortly the grounds on which he should give his
 814 l l l l l l l l 815 816 l 817 l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Baronet thought only of one class of public creditors—those who had money in the funds—but he forgot that more numerous class of public creditors to whom the House owed freed institutions. The House owed it to the people to relieve them from some of their burthens—to
 818 819 l
 Lord Althorp  appealed to the hon. Member whether it would be fair or just to press his Amendment, considering the situation in which his Majesty's Ministers would be placed, if the House did not come to a decision on this point. He was well aware that he had given but very short notice of this proposition; but the reason was, the absolute necessity which presented itself, after the majority of Friday night, that a final decision should be come to as soon as possible. He, therefore, trusted that the hon. Member would suffer the House to go to a division.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  had no desire to embarrass Ministers; but still he must say that this vital question—a question intimately involving the immediate interests of a million and a half of people in one metropolis, ought to have the most mature consideration, and as yet he had by no means heard sufficient discussion on the subject [ Uproar Go on 820 l l 821 cries of No no from some hon Members l l 822
 Sir Francis Burdett  would address the House as briefly as he could on this occasion. His hon. colleague having been placed in a situation in which he conceived himself called upon, from a due regard to his own character, and from a due regard to what he considered the public interests, to resign the situation which he held under his Majesty's Government, he had also vacated his seat. His hon. colleague feeling, that he could not give Government, on this occasion, that support which it was important to give it without a sacrifice of public character and consistency, which, he thought, would be a course detrimental to the public service, and that his doing so would render his opinions liable to so much misinterpretation, as to more than counterbalance any benefit to be derived from his remaining in power, had, under those circumstances, considered it his duty to resign his situation under Government, and his seat in that House. He was not placed on this occasion under circumstances of quite so difficult a nature. He held no public situation connected with the Ministry, and, therefore, his course of proceeding, on this occasion, could not possibly be attributed to motives of self-interest. He should have no difficulty in fearlessly stating the course which he intended to pursue. He had, when this matter had been first given notice of by the worthy Alderman, determined to vote for his Motion; but he was determined then to vote for it, because his constituents were anxious for the repeal of this tax, conceiving that it was partial and unjust, and oppressive in its operation upon them; but now the question had assumed a more important shape. The question now was, if they repealed this tax, where could they find a substitute for it so as to supply the deficiency thus created in the revenue? He thought, that it devolved on those who advocated the repeal of the tax to show how the deficiency in the revenue could be made good to the Government, so as to support the public service of the country. The question of the repeal of the House and Window-tax now stood in a very different situation from what it did in the first instance. They had now three questions before them; whether, in the
 823 l l 824 825
 Lord Sandon  said, a petition had been presented from a respectable body of his constituents, praying for the repeal of the House and Window-tax; but great as was the duty he owed them, he owed a higher duty to the country. He could not, for the sake of relieving them from this burthen, throw into jeopardy the public revenue, and the means of sustaining the credit of the country. The real evil felt at present was not so much the amount of taxation as the want of confidence. It was that species of taxation upon enterprise and productive industry, arising from political and commercial causes, that principally afflicted the country. If the vote of that night went to reduce the revenue to the extent of 7,000,000 l l
 Mr. Harvey  said, if the House would extend its indulgence to him, he could assure Gentlemen, that he would detain them but for a very few minutes. 'The right hon. Baronet had stated, that the Government, by these latter proceedings, were placed in a situation of great embarrassment. It was so, he admitted; but it should be observed, that the Government had placed themselves in that unpleasant situation. The three propositions then before the House were unquestionably calculated to throw Ministers
 826 827 * l
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the
 * 828 829
 Dr. Lushington  rose, amidst considerable confusion. He begged of the House to recollect the situation in which he and other Gentlemen stood, who represented metropolitan boroughs. He hoped, therefore, that the House would permit him to state the grounds on which he voted on the present occasion. Had the Motion of the hon. and worthy Alderman been made before Friday last, he (Dr. Lushington) should certainly have voted for it; for, in the district which he represented, there was so much suffering and calamity, the inhabitants were so overwhelmed by a diminution of trade, and by other difficulties, that it was his firm conviction, that it would be all but impossible for them to pay the House and Window-tax in the present year. Such was the state of the population of that district, that there were persons earning only eight, nine, or ten shillings a week, who were nevertheless liable to pay the House and Window-tax for the houses they inhabited. But he had only the choice of two evils; and the question which he asked himself was, which was the less evil to inflict on his unfortunate constituents? It was proposed to add the repeal of the House and Window-tax to the repeal of the Malt-duty, and to supply the deficiency in the revenue by a Property-tax. Now, which would be the greater evil? To continue the House and Window-tax, modified, as his noble friend proposed to modify it, and the Malt-duty, which was not very sensibly felt by his constituents, or to impose a Property or Income-tax, without any defined limitations, without ascertaining how it was likely to operate; with no guide as to the manner in which it would be received, other than the melancholy experience of the detestation and horror with which it had formerly been considered by the greater portion of the people as the most inquisitorial imposition that ever existed. He, for one, had voted for the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester. If that Motion had been carried, and a Committee had been appointed, the result would have been a report, showing one of two things—either that a Property-tax was practicable, under certain limitations and
 830
 Mr. William Brougham  would not take up the time of the House for five minutes. He also was placed in a situation of great difficulty. The hon. Gentleman might sneer, but he little knew what it was to see the extraordinary distress which prevailed among the hundred thousand persons in the district which he had the honour to represent,—to know that they believed that distress would be greatly alleviated by the repeal of the House and Window-tax,—to feel that although, under other circumstances, he would support the repeal to the utmost of his ability, and yet to find himself so placed, that, as an honest man, he must vote against the proposition. He had been returned to that House on no pledges. All that he had assured his constituents was, that he would vote honestly.
 831 l l
 Mr. Tennyson  rose, amidst cries of "Question! question!" It had not been his intention to say a single word; but it seemed to be expected that all the Representatives of the Metropolitan districts should explain the reasons of their vote. As the Representative of a large constituency, he felt entitled to express his sentiments; and if hon. Gentlemen persisted in interrupting him, he would move an adjournment. In the vote he should give, he would follow the dictate of his own judgment, for no man was more averse from giving pledges on any subject than he was. He thought that those who voted for a large reduction of taxation without being prepared to support the imposition of a Property-tax, which was allowed to be the only substitute for the taxes to be taken off, were not acting with any regard to consistency. He himself was an advocate for the imposition of a Property-tax. He thought it was calculated to give a spring to the industry of the people. Upon the representation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, many hon. Gentlemen had postponed Motions which were intended to relieve the burthens of the people until the Budget was brought forward, and now, when that event had taken place, what relief was promised? Merely a few paltry items of taxation were
 832
 Mr. Leech  said, that it was absurd to say that the Ministers had been taken by surprise. He saw no reason why he should alter the vote which he had given on Friday.
 Mr. Hume  declared that after the overwhelming majority against the repeal of the Malt-tax and the House and Window-duties, he should not feel himself justified in pressing his Amendment on the main question to a division; and he would therefore withdraw it.
 Sir William Ingilby  complained of the manner in which the question of the repeal of the Malt-duty had been smothered under that of the House and Window-duties. He thought the House ought to decide directly whether it would rescind the Motion of Friday. For that purpose he would move, as an Amendment on Lord Althorp's Motion which was then the main question, that all the words relating to the Malt-duty should be omitted.
 Mr. Henry Handley : The noble Lord had complained of the embarrassment in which he had been placed; but the Members of that House, also, had been placed in great embarrassment. Thinking he understood the English language, he had believed the noble Lord would have been the last man in the House to say what he did not mean. On Friday night, after the debate, he went down to his constituents, and told them that half the Malt-duty had been repealed. He was in the market the following day—he saw the joyous countenances of the farmers—he saw what had not been seen for some time—smiles upon their countenances—and he came back instructed to ask the noble Lord whether he would take the duty off stock in hand. If the noble Lord proposed thus cavalierly [ "no, no!" "yes, yes!" 833
 Mr. Baring  said, if the House intended to rescind the Resolution, they should do it with something like decency and propriety. The Question should be settled by a formal Resolution.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that though he had not voted for the Resolution on Friday, yet, considering how much the feeling of the people had been excited by the vote to which they then came, he should support that vote. They were bound to keep the promises which they had made to the people.
 Sir William Ingilby  declared he would press his Amendment to a division. He had hitherto supported the present Administration, but, from their conduct on this occasion all the confidence which he had hitherto had in them was destroyed.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that in consequence of the painful situation in which his right hon. colleague found himself placed, he had felt it due, as well to his constituents as to himself, to resign his seat for the city
 758
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he wished to be permitted to second the Amendment of the noble Lord. In making that offer, the house would perceive that he intended to convey his humble approbation of this mode of proceeding. He did come down to the House determined to trespass upon the patience of the House, perhaps, to exhaust it, by making observations at some length upon the proposition of the hon. Member. The proposition which had been made by the noble Lord had dispensed with a great deal of what he had intended to say, especially with that part of it which he meant to urge in favour of delay and of full inquiry before they plunged into what seemed to him the horrors of the Poor-laws. No man had a stronger personal interest in supporting Poor-laws than he had. By recommending them, he should obtain the affectionate confidence of a class of men whom he esteemed most highly—he should get a great deal of approbation from the Catholic Clergy of Ireland, who were strongly disposed to favour the introduction of the poor-laws, coming in contact, as they did, with the misery of the people, and being naturally anxious to find some tangible relief for that misery. If he could bring his mind to think that the Poor-laws would be advisable, and if he were to state that to be his opinion, there would soon be a cry for them in Ireland that would be irresistible. If he were disposed to agitate Ireland for purposes that would lead to the shaking of the foundations of society, and that would tend to revolution and to the insecurity of property, he did not know one subject more likely to influence the minds of men, particularly of the uneducated, than this subject of the Poor-laws. He could, by means of this subject, influence all those who were most reckless of life when in pursuit of objects that they thought would be beneficial to them, but he was thoroughly convinced that he could not do so without a sacrifice of principle, and he must seek his private advantage by a violation of what he esteemed a conscientious duty. So far as the hon. Member had spoken of the distress of the people of Ireland, the case he had brought forward was most fully made out. There was no doubt of the distress of the country, and instead of being diminished, it was increased—increased too by the strong arm of the law. He was
 872 873 874 875 876 877 878 879
 Colonel Torrens , in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for the repeal of those taxes which lower the profits of capital and the wages of labour. He was aware, that the question of a Property-tax had, for the present, already been decided by the House, and that hon. Members were wearied out by the protracted debate which had recently taken place upon this subject. Nevertheless, as the question of a Property-tax had, as it appeared to him, been so much misunderstood, he would intreat the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured, as briefly as possible, to explain the manner of its operation, and to obviate the objections which had been brought forward against it. All the wealth of the country might be divided into distinct and different portions, namely, fixed property and floating capital; fixed property consisting of land, houses, funds, and money upon mortgage; and floating capital being the stock employed in cultivation, in manufactures, in trade, and commerce. Now it would appear, on a careful examination of the subject, that the revenue derived from floating capital was regulated by causes altogether different from those which regulated the revenue derived from fixed capital. In every country there was a customary rate of pro fit, without obtaining winch, capitalists would not engage and would not remain in
 843 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 844 l l l l l l 845
 Mr. Maxwell seconded the Motion. The taxes on capital employed in industry amounted to twenty-five per cent.; which, as the gallant Colonel had observed, was in a great measure the cause why the distress of the country was so great. It was impossible to take away from the profits of those who employed labourers, without compelling them to lower the rate of wages of the labourer. If the House duly considered the poverty and misery which at present existed, they would try to place the burthens of the country in such a position as not to drive the people to despair. Since the year 1819 the wages of the manufacturing labourer had been reduced one-half; and it was their only consolation that the wages of the agricultural labourer had fallen as much. But what was the case with those who lived on the taxes? That
 846
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he would not take up the time of the House by renewing those topics he had formerly discussed on the hustings with the hon. member for Dover. He was astonished, after the flourish of trumpets with which the hon. Member had introduced his name, that not a single fact had been brought forward to connect him with the second election at Dover. He only had stated something about having heard that a gentleman of Dover had sent the names of sixteen individuals belonging to the Ordnance, who had given their votes for the hon. Member. Now, he would ask if there was anything in that to justify the hon. Member in bringing such a charge against him? As far as regarded his connection with Dover, he could state (as he had the poll books before him) that more of those in the employment of the Government had voted in favour of his opponent than in his favour. That showed what the nature of the Government interference in Dover was. Indeed, so far from the Government candidate (as he was called) receiving support, he had considered himself as rather badly used in not receiving more support. He had that morning taken the trouble to refer to the various poll-books, when he
 898
 Colonel Conolly  said, that the proposition of the hon. member for Knaresborough was so vague and indefinite, that he did not see how any rational man could support it. He gave the hon. Member full credit for the best possible intentions to remedy the evils under which Ireland laboured; but as, in legislating on a great and important question, it was necessary to have some fundamental proposition upon which to act—and, as the proposition submitted by the hon. Member was devoid of all distinctness—however benevolent he might think the hon. Member's intentions (and nothing was further from his wish than to detract from his motives), he must vote against the Resolution. He would beg to ask, what benefit had the system of Poor-laws conferred upon England? Were they, he would ask, attended with such advantage to this great country, as to warrant the House in extending the system to Ireland, where a total want of the necessary machinery by which to work them existed? A great deal of the misery of Ireland arose from the want of a resident gentry; and how could any system of Poor-laws be worked beneficially, or with any prospect of success, without a resident gentry? Could the House, he would ask, expect to see the system conducted in Ireland with the same beneficial results as in Scotland, where, not only the spirit, but the letter of the law of Elizabeth was maintained? If he thought the Poor-laws could be introduced into Ireland with anything like similar results, he should be ready to adopt them. But, as it appeared to him that there was no evil already existing in Ireland that they were not calculated to increase—that there was no one moral good they were calculated to achieve—that, as they could not be conducive to the welfare of Ireland, but, on the contrary, as, in his opinion, they would
 889
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  observed, that if what the hon. and learned member for Dublin said, was founded in fact, and sound in reasoning, it would amount to this—that though he (the member for Dublin) had all his life been protesting against the tyrannical government of Ireland—though he had ever been disclaiming against the cruel and arbitrary laws imposed upon the Irish people, and the desolation which those laws spread over the land, and the degraded condition to which the people were in consequence reduced—yet now he came forward to picture to them the moral beauty, the propriety, and the rectitude, which, if they were to take his representation for the fact, showed that Poor-laws were not only not wanted in Ireland, but would be positively mischievous. The speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman was as much directed against the Amendment of the noble Lord as the proposition of the hon. Member, for, according to the hon. and learned Member, inquiries even were not necessary. The abject of the Government
 880 l 881 l l
 Mr. Shaw  said, as there appeared an almost unanimous disposition to agree to the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would merely observe that he found himself placed in the peculiar situation of agreeing in the sentiments uttered by the hon. and learned member for Dublin; while, at the same time, he assented to the proposition of the noble Lord; he was satisfied that the more the matter was inquired into, the more would the House and the country be convinced of the entire inexpediency, if not the utter impossibility, of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland. The great fallacy which pervaded the arguments of the hon. member for Knaresborough (Mr. Richards), and those who supported him, was, that they assumed the introduction of Poor-laws would necessarily relieve Ireland from the poverty which it was admitted on all hands existed. Now, his (Mr. Shaw's) opinion was, that they would considerably aggravate that poverty, and only increase the evils that already afflicted that country. The only argument in favour of the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, which appeared to be of any force, was that of assimilating the laws on the subject in England and Ireland. Now, he (Mr. Shaw) had no objection to extending such laws as were good to Ireland; and, if assimilation was the object, let those laws which were found to be injurious in their effects in England be abolished. He believed it was of the essence of the Poor-laws to engender poverty and crime, and that they had already that effect in England—besides having, in many instances, driven the owners and cultivators of the soil to abandon their properties to the devouring appetite of pauperism. He, therefore, for one, would never consent to extend such a system to Ireland—calculated as it was, also, to wither the sources of true benevolence, and dry up the streams of real charity. If Poor-laws were established in Ireland, he was persuaded that the whole labouring population would be reduced to a state of legalized pauperism, and that scarcely a single individual could earn his bread independently. He had, however, no objection to inquiry; and as he considered that the tendency of the noble Lord's Amendment would not be to introduce such a system, but the contrary, it should have his support.
 Mr. Barron  was an advocate for the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, at the same time he would, for the present, prefer that an inquiry, such as the noble Lord's Amendment proposed, should precede any legislation on the subject, for he was sure that the more inquiry was made, the more the House and the country would be convinced of the necessity of the application of some system of Poor-laws to that country. He did not mean that system of Poor-laws which the hon. and learned member for Dublin seemed to apprehend, but a system which, adopting the principle of giving relief to the destitute, would avoid the evils of the present Poor-laws of England. He contended, that if Poor-laws were established in Ireland, the poor would not emigrate to this country, as some hon. Members seemed to apprehend; nor did he think that it would have the effect of destroying the rent of land. On the contrary, it would be a security to the landlords of Ireland. Would the House, he would ask, allow the peasantry to take forcible possession of the property, for that must be the consequence of having no provision made for them? If the House denied to the landlords the protection which a modified system of Poor-laws would afford them, it must lead to their inevitable ruin. He did hope, that in any system of Poor-laws which might be applied to Ireland, the Church would not be forgotten,—that they would remember that monstrous robbery and plunder of the poor which had been committed on the poor, in applying the property of monasteries, from which the poor had derived so much benefit in former times.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the present Motion, which was one out of twelve which stood on the books referring to the distress of the people, had been brought forward with the view to relieve the people of Ireland; and how had it been met? The noble Lord had proposed as an Amendment the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the subject. The Amendment not only affected the present Motion, but also the Motions of which notices had been given by his hon. relative, the member for Wicklow, and by another hon. Gentleman. Thus, then, after all the investigation which the state of the peasantry of Ireland had undergone, it was to be made a subject of renewed investigation by a Commission. But was not Government bound to apply a remedy to the crying evil at once, as well for the sake of the people of England, as for the suffering population of Ireland? He was convinced of the fact,—that most of the objections which had been started to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman arose from ignorance. What had been the main objection of his hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin? He had taken the extracts from the Reports of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state and administration of the Poor-laws in England; and said, "that the reading of it had satisfied his mind as to the impolicy of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland." By this observation he had proved, that he had altogether mistaken the meaning and object of that book, which was to point out the evils that had arisen from the departures that had taken place from the principle of the Poor-laws. But he would remind his hon. and learned friend, that not one of those who advocated the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland desired that the English Poor-laws should be adopted. The hon. member for Colchester, had truly said, that they did not wish to carry this system of laws into Ireland, but to have such a system established there as would enable the poor and destitute to obtain relief. The industrious and peaceable peasant had a right to demand support, rather than be suffered to starve. His hon. and learned friend, in the course of his impassioned speech, raked up the evils which had been superinduced on the good principle by the bad system followed in the south of England, and exclaimed—"Good God! will you introduce such a state of things into
 883 884 l l 885 The Irish Gentleman in Search of a Religion Little's Poems, 886
 Mr. James Grattan  felt great pleasure in seconding the Resolution. He had ever held, that till the poor of Ireland were secured against famine and its consequences, it was vain to expect tranquillity in Ireland, and every day's experience was a too painful corroboration of his opinion. He would confidently rest his case on this single principle—that a man uncertain of his daily bread,—a starving man,—was necessarily a savage, who was incapable of that prospective and temperate course of conduct which was the essential condition of peace and prosperity. The Irish poor eked out a miserable existence between famine and rapine; they were able and willing to work, but there was no work for them. They saw the means of comfortable subsistence around them; they were nevertheless destitute in their native land. They
 865 866 pro tanto s 867 l l d
 Mr. Halcomb  rose to make a Motion respecting the use of Government influence at the late elections for Dover. He expressed his sincere hope that the circumstances which he was about to state might be satisfactorily explained. It was well known that there had been two severe elections for Dover. There could be no doubt, in his opinion, that at those elections undue influence had been resorted to for the purpose of procuring the return of the Government candidate. He did not inculpate any one, but it was manifest that some person behind the curtain had interfered most irregulary, illegally, and unconstitutionally. The hon. Member adverted to several cases in proof of his assertion; particularly that of Mr. Rigden, the clerk of the Ordnance Works. Mr. Rigden, in the first of the two recent elections, had favoured the Opposition candidates. Immediately after the election and without any cause assigned, Mr. Rigden was suspended, and a Mr. O'Shea was sent for from Ireland to fill his situation. After the second election, however, Mr. O'Shea was sent back to Ireland, and Mr. Rigden was restored to his office. He (Mr. Halcomb) had no doubt that the suspension of Mr. Rigden was made use of by his opponent, Captain Stanhope, for the purpose of deterring other persons in the service of Government from voting against the Government candidates. These circumstances ought, in his opinion, to induce the House to determine to see the correspondence on the subject. He believed it to be a fact, that the Captains of the Post Office Packets had been written to, that if they did not vote for Captain Stanhope, they should be deprived of their situations. He had not himself seen the letters in which that was said, but the Captains of those vessels had previously stated to him that they were most anxious for his success; and he would ask the House if, when they heard that those Captains afterwards voted for his opponent, they could doubt that there had been Government interference? He had good authority, likewise, for saying that Colonel Arnold, the presiding officer of the Ordnance Department at Dover, had received letters from the Ordnance, requiring him to interfere in favour of the Government candidate; and he had reason to think, that the right hon. Gentleman who had formerly been his opponent, had procured
 896 897
 Mr. Richards , in reply, contended, that his former arguments had not been refuted. One of the most strenuous of the opponents of his Motion was the hon. and learned member for Dublin. Now, he held a paper in his hand containing a report of the proceedings of a meeting held in Dublin a few years ago on this very subject of the application of a system of Poor-laws to Ireland. At that meeting, Lord Cloncurry presided; and the meeting was addressed, amongst others, by a Mr. O'Connell (he did not know whether it was the same hon. and learned Gentleman who was now opposed to his Motion). That Mr. O'Connell declared that he was in favour of a system of Poor-laws for Ireland. He said, that the poor must be supported, either by voluntary contributions, or by the Government, and that it was the first duty of a well-regulated government to provide for the poor. That hon. Gentleman went on to say, that he would have a well-regulated system of Poor-laws for Ireland; and he thought that such a system was necessary, particularly in the then circumstances of Ireland. In the conclusion of that speech, the Mr. O'Connell whom he quoted, apologised for having detained the meeting so long, but as a convert to the opinion which he then entertained, he came to the question
 894
 Mr. Richards  spoke to the following effect  *
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to see so great a difference of opinion upon this subject in the House, and was surprised to find that hon. Members were inclined to consider the facts contained in the Poor-law Report as unworthy of attention and credence. He was himself friendly to the poor, but he should be guilty of a dereliction of his duty, if, believing, as he did, in the existence of the evils arising out of the Poor-laws in England, he should consent to the introduction of the same laws into another country which was sufficiently afflicted with evils of almost every sort at present. He concurred with the hon. member for Colchester in saying that, from the day the Corn-laws were passed, the deterioration of the peasantry of England commenced; but he could not concur with his hon. friend in asserting, that every man who wanted food ought to be allowed to help himself to it from his neighbour's food or his neighbour's house. It was the disposition of all classes, high as well as low, to indulge themselves at the expense of others. Now, nothing conduced more to the happiness of a state than to make the people trust to themselves, and depend upon there own industry. The principle which had just been laid down by his hon. friend, the member for Kirkcudbright, was decidedly opposed to this maxim, and, if followed up, would lead to the destruction of every species of property. He believed that if the Poor-laws of England were not speedily amended, they would demoralize the whole country. The present was a question with which it was the duty of Government to grapple; but he hoped that they would not grapple with it until they were in possession of full information, or at least of fuller information than any which they had at present. He suggested to the noble Lord the propriety of sending a Commission to Scotland, in order to collect the same information in the parishes of that country which had been recently collected in the parishes of England. The report presented by the General Assembly of Scotland proved, that in proportion as the English Poor-laws had been introduced into the south-western parts of that country, they had aggravated the distresses and increased the numbers of the poor. He was happy to say, that in the north of Scotland, and particularly in the county in which he was born, the principle of giving food to able-bodied labourers had never been ad-
 888
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the powerful speech of the hon. member for Dublin had gone far to persuade the House that the object of the present Motion was to impose upon Ireland, not only the English system of Poor-laws, but also the almost incredible abuses which of late years had been grafted upon that system. He appealed to those hon. Members, who had heard the speech of the hon. member for Knaresborough, whether that, or anything like that, was the case? He contended that it was matter of right that the poor, who could not provide subsistence for themselves, should have subsistence provided for them by the State; and, such being his opinion, he was prepared to go further, and say, that it was incumbent upon the House to make a legislative provision for the poor in Ireland. The noble Lord had met the proposition of the hon. member for Knaresborough with a proposition for inquiry, which, to be effectual, he thought should be wider than the noble Lord at present seemed prepared to make it. He was decidedly of opinion, that if this Motion had been taken into consideration at an earlier period, it would have done more to quiet the minds of the people of Ireland, and to remove the disturbances which prevailed among them, than any resolution to which the House could now come. If the English Poor-laws were so objectionable as some Gentlemen represented them to be, why should they not apply to Ireland the
 887
 Mr. Slaney  thought, that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had adopted the only practical course, under all the circumstances of the ease, and he felt confident that the Commission to be appointed would be an honest and a comprehensive one. He was opposed to the application of the English Poor-law system to Ireland; and he thought that there was a marked distinction between the title which the able-bodied man, impoverished by his own imprudence, had to relief, and the right possessed by the aged and afflicted. He did not object to the immigration of the Irish poor into this country, but as the effect of that was to depress the English labourer, he thought that a fair ground existed for entering into a calm inquiry how far provision might be made for the poor of Ireland. He should support the appointment of the Commission, because, if the establishment of a modified system of Poor-laws
 882
 Mr. Estcourt  would be glad of the introduction of any measure which would tend to mitigate the evils of the poor in Ireland, and which would also remove some of the evils which their poverty had entailed on this country, which were severely felt in the county in which he resided. On these grounds he was disposed to give his support to the Motion of the hon. member for Knaresborough; but when he found so many members for Ireland opposed to that Motion, which they seemed to suppose would pledge the House to the introduction of the Poor-laws of England into Ireland, he hesitated to accede
 893
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he was not so fortunate as to understand the gallant Colonel's arguments, but he was more fortunate as to his Motion; and if the gallant officer would stop with the proposition for repealing the taxes paid out of the wages of labour, he (Mr. Cobbett) was quite ready to agree with him; but if he pressed the whole of his Motion to a division, he must certainly oppose it.
 Mr. Speaker : I rise to address the House under feelings of considerable embarrassment. * 847 hears, hear 848 849 850 851 Strype's Annals 852 tripartite or quatuor-partite 853 prô misericordia Dei *
 Sir James Graham  confessed, that he almost felt ashamed at having a word to say on such a question as this; but, as the character of a noble friend had been as undeservedly as unwisely attacked, he was compelled to say a word or two in justification of him. The noble Duke alluded to had, in every transaction since he came into office, acted with those under him in the most fair, manly, and straightforward manner; and he defied anyone to bring an instance where he had turned the power of office to party purpose. In no instance had he used his authority in an unworthy manner; but even if he had done so—if there had been any malversation of his power, was this the proper place in which to get redress? Had not the hon. Member access to the Courts of Law, in the practice of which he could boast so much experience—where he was accustomed to argue cases with the same ability which distinguished him in that House? The hon. Member, with his legal acquirements, must know, that any such offence as he had been attempting to prove was, under the statute of Anne, visited with special penalties, and that the Postmaster-general, if convicted, would be rendered incapable of ever holding office again. But the noble Duke, though utterly regardless of any attempt to injure his character—well knowing how signally that attempt would fail—was still anxious to clear himself in the eyes of that House, and showing to it that he had in no wise departed from that respect which was ever due to it—that he had not forgotten what was due to his own high station, or violated the trust reposed in him by his office. As an instance, he would just mention that the Post-master at Cardigan having unduly interfered, by the influence of his official situation, in the election at that town, his Grace, on being satisfied of the fact, instantly and for ever dismissed him
 899
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that they would not proceed to legislate on this subject without the most ample information before them, which was within their reach. He would suggest to the noble Lord, that much valuable knowledge might be obtained through the foreign ministers resident in this country. They would be able to give, or procure, information respecting the laws in their countries applicable to the relief of the poor. It would be important to know what were the laws applicable to the relief of the poor in large cities, or in rural districts, and what provisions existed for the relief of sudden and extensive distress amongst that class. Foreign courts would, he was sure, be ready to afford every information on those subjects.
 Mr. Clay  denied that this was a mere Irish question, as had been asserted—it was essentially an English question. If the produce of Ireland was allowed to enter into competition with the agricultural industry of this country, without any protection to the latter—but that, on the con-
 892
 Lord Acheson  could not overlook the fact, that England had, under her system of Poor-laws, enjoyed a long career of prosperity still, as the question was, whether
 891
 Lord Althorp  had before stated, that he did not think it desirable to give to the commissioners the right to recommend any particular course, or to do anything more than to collect information by which Parliament might be enabled to judge for themselves. He could assure his hon. friend that it was not his intention, by his Amendment, to give the "go-by" to the question.
 Lord Althorp : I agree, Sir, with the hon. Gentleman who has proposed the Motion, that this is a subject of the greatest possible importance; and I think, also, that it requires the greatest consideration to be bestowed upon it before we adopt it. I must say, however, that considering the evils which we know to exist in the Poor Law system of this country, it would have been move advisable for the hon. Member
 868 869 870 871
 Lord Althorp  could not consent to the Motion of the gallant Colonel. The question was a purely scientific one; and he did not see how the gallant Colonel had made out by argument the reposition which he bad submitted to the House. The gallant Colonel was entirely mistaken, if he supposed that any peculiar injury was sustained by raising a part of the taxes from the capital of employers. He would not, however, go into the question at present; but would content himself with negativing the Motion.
 Lord Sandon  only desired to say a few words from the peculiar situation of the town which he represented. That town was greatly interested in the question; and a public meeting had lately been held there on the subject. The question, it must be admitted, was doubtful, for they had the hon. and learned member for Dublin on one side, and the learned Dr. Doyle on the other. The House must not take up the opinions of the Poor-laws Commissioners, without reflection. Their inquiries were all partial. He would as soon form his opinion of the animal economy from a description of disease, as form an opinion of the Poor-laws of England from the Report of the Commissioners. They were ordered to select and inquire into the most remarkable cases, not into the general system. He admitted that the Report gave a correct view of the abuses which prevailed in the southern counties of England; but those abuses were not the general characteristics of the system. He denied that they dried up the sources of charity; for there was no Country more charitable than England. But charity itself led to many abuses, and that was no argument against charity. They were not to argue from the abuses of a system to its uses. He certainly was ready to support inquiry; but he wished it to be conducted without prejudice. It was impossible, he believed, to maintain two different systems in the two countries. In order to get correct information, he would suggest, that some of the gentlemen who had been employed to inquire into the operation of the Poor-laws in England, should be employed to inquire into the state of the poor of Ireland.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to make a complaint, on the part of the labouring and working classes of England and Ireland, and Scotland too, of great partiality in Taxation. He complained, upon their part, that heavy Stamp-duties and Auction-duties were laid upon them, while the rich part of his Majesty's subjects escaped the far greater of those duties. This was what he had to show to the House; but before he proceeded with his statement, he must make one or two observations upon certain reproaches that had been cast upon him at different times for having an intention, and being desirous to set the poor against the rich. Why, if a Member of Parliament must not complain that the poor were ill-treated by the rich—if he must never put forward the claims of the poor, in opposition to those of the rich, without incurring this charge—then that House must consist of the Representatives of the rich, and not of the Representatives of the poor. However, disregarding that imputation—disregarding the imputation of making statements as the hon. member for Hull had accused him of doing—(his learning and good manners had prevented him from doing so in English), for the purpose of misleading the vulgar, he would proceed with his statement, and he, in general, complained, that of eight millions of taxation, raised upon the people of this kingdom, including the cost of the collection, a very small portion indeed was paid by those who were best able to pay, and he was afraid it would appear (though he was by no means anxious that it should), that this had been done by premeditation and design, and that it could not have been done otherwise. As he had done on a former occasion when he brought forward this matter, he should submit what he had to offer to the House in the shape of Resolutions, which Resolutions, in divers successive propositions, would contain a statement of facts drawn from the Acts of Parliament themselves, and not based on any
 914 915 916 l l l l l l 917 s l l l l s l l l l l l l l l l 918 l 919 l l s l l s l s s s l l l l l l 920 s d. l s l l 921 l ad valorem l l l l l l l l l l 922 s l l s l l l l l l l l s 923 s l s s l l s s l s l l s l. d. l d l l l l l 924 l l l l l l l s l l s d l d l s l s d s s 925 l l l l l s d l l l l l 926 l l l l ad valorem 927 l l l l l l l l l ad valorem ad valorem l s l l 928 s d 929 d s s d s 930 931
 Mr. Spring Rice , in attempting to expose the absurdities and fallacies of the hon. Member, begged to assure the House, that he would not take up its time at any length were he not anxious to counteract the mischievous impression which the hon. Member's most unfounded statements might produce out of doors. Although he would not quarrel with the well-known vigorous impatience—not to say indiscretion—of the hon. Member, he must still express his opinion, that when notice had been given of the intention of his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to ameliorate these laws, the more proper course would have been for the hon. mover of the Resolutions to await the Ministerial proposition, and then to have addressed himself closely and fairly to it. Instead of doing that which, in common fairness, the hon. Member was bound to do, he now came forward with a repetition of his former complaints. This was not in keeping with the hon. Member's proverbial ingenuousness and singleness of purpose, and he thought he had a right to complain of it. He also had to complain of the ingratitude of the hon. Member. He held in his hand a book—not a volume of the Journals of that House, nor a work, which, being of great research and value, was hard to get at—but it was a work published by one Mr. Dunn, called  The Law and Daily Commercial Remembrancer for 932 933 l l l s l l l s l l l s s d l l l l s l l l l s d l l s d 934 l l l s d l l l l l s d l s l s d 935 l l s d Cobbett l l s l l s l l
 Mr. Cobbett —I never heard of it.
 Mr. Spring Rice. —"Then am I completely taken in." The hon. Gentleman had forgotten many things in the ardour with which he read the lucubrations of Mr. Dunn on this subject. But though the publicans offered the most numerous instances of this sort of, mortgage, it was certainly practised in other cases, and the deposit of the title deeds formed what was called an equitable mortgage, sufficient in many cases, to satisfy the creditor. Mortgages to the amount of 25 l Cobbett de hœretico comburendo l l l l l l l l 937 938 l l l l l l l l s l l s d l l l s d l l l 939 l l l l l ad valorem surgit amari aliqnid l l l l l l Cob- 940 bett s l d 941 d l d s l s s d d l 942 corvée taille gabelle
 Mr. Hume  said, that it appeared to him that the hon. member for Oldham and his right hon. friend opposite approximated closely in their result, that they were merely cavilling about words, and that, too, in language which he must say was on both sides not the most courteous and temperate. As to the eulogy which his right hon. friend had passed upon the peerage of England, it might be received with cheers in that House, but it would be received with very little acclamations elsewhere by every man who recollected their forced assent to the passing of the Reform Bill. It appeared to him that the
 943 l l l l l 944 minimum l l l l s l l l l l l l noblesse
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  expressed his surprise that after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spring Rice)—a speech of great ability, and containing details of the most minute accuracy—in which the statements of the hon. member for Oldham, had been completely refuted, those statements should have been repeated by the hon. member for Middlesex. He was surprised, after what had been stated in the House, to hear the hon. member for Middlesex re-assert the charges of the hon. member for Oldham, in Stronger language, and he would almost
 945 l 946
 Lord Althorp  said, that after the very able and conclusive speech of his right hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice), it was not his intention to say a word on this subject; and he should not have risen but for the observations of the hon. member for Whitehaven in the close of his speech. The hon. Member, after repeating some of the able arguments of his right hon. friend, and adding some of his own, had attacked him (Lord Althorp) for not having answered the first speech of the hon. member for Oldham. He admitted, that at the time referred to be had not given that hon. Gentleman a sufficient answer, and amongst other reasons, he was unable to do so, from the vagueness of the terms in which the hon. Member's Motion was couched, and from the nature of the speech with which he introduced it. The hon. Member talked of showing that the
 947
 Mr. O'Connell  was surprised at the charge of ignorance made by the hon. member for Whitehaven against his hon. friend the member for Oldham, when the hon. Member had shown that he did not know the difference between the legacy and the probate duty. The probate duty was payable in that way which pressed heavily on the poor. There were other duties connected with bequests of which the great weight pressed on the poor, while the rich were comparatively exempt. Without going at that hour into the details, he would only observe, that the hon. member for Oldham ought not to have been attacked when his object was plainly to relieve the poor from the burthens which pressed so heavily upon them.
 Mr. Warre  was surprised to hear the statement of the hon. member for Middlesex, as to the comparative exemptions of the French  noblesse noblesse 948
 Mr. Lennard  said, that the statements of the hon. member for Oldham were such as would have commanded his support, but that the Government had admitted, that there were great abuses in the system, and were prepared to remedy them. Under these circumstances he should vote on the side of Government.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that, although he was apprehensive he might, in this instance, give a vole little in unison with the present expression of public opinion, he was prepared to resist the reduction proposed by both hon. Members, as tending to diminish too much the efficiency of the service, and support the vote proposed by his Majesty's Ministers.
 Major Handley  thought some saving might be effected in the staff of the army, and also by consolidating together the duties of two officers, one of whom was often capable of performing the duties of both. Many officers in public offices—for instance, at the Horse Guards—filled civil office, and had a command. There were four such, who, besides their offices, actually had regiments, and were so far pluralists.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that, as the Government did not seem disposed to pursue on this subject the plans of economy which they had recommended when out of office, he should feel himself obliged to vote with the hon. member for Middlesex. The public expected great and extensive reductions in the public departments. The more he was disposed to maintain faith with the public creditor, the more was he determined to enforce economy, when practicable, in every department.
 Mr. O'Connell  was in favour of the reduction proposed by his hon. friend. It was singular that in England, with a population of 16,000,000, not more than 12,000 infantry were required; whilst in Ireland, with a population of only 8,000,000, 20,000 infantry were now to be voted. With the English gentlemen this might be a reason why they would support the estimate. For the last twelve months half the 20,000 were employed in enforcing tithe, and they would not have their amusement for nothing; but with him it was a decided reason why he would support the reduction of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Lord Althorp , in rising to move for two Select Committees of Inquiry into the agriculture, trade, manufacture, and shipping of the United Kingdom, said, he was aware that there existed a very great wish for inquiry; and in compliance with that desire, he thought it more proper to have two Committees than one. He should, therefore, move first the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the state of the agriculture and the agricultural labourer throughout the kingdom, and of another Committee to inquire into the state of the trade, manufactures, and shipping of the United Kingdom. He thought more benefit would result from inquiry in this way than from a General Committee to inquire into the distress of the country. He owned, however, that he should do wrong if he led the House to expect that any great public benefit would arise from the labours of these Committees. Their appointment would have the effect of showing, that the expectations of the country on the subject of a redress of grievances in the way desired were impossible. There was a question whether it would be advisable to mix up an inquiry into the shipping interests with that connected with the mercantile and commercial concerns of the country. Now, he would observe, that it was most desirable the shipping should be considered as closely connected with the manufactures of the nation. With the commerce of the country, the shipping was certainly connected, although, upon some subjects, there might be some degree of rivalry. He thought that, upon the whole, the question connected with the shipping interests would be better considered in a Committee appointed to inquire into the manufactures and commerce of the country, than if it were inquired into alone; but if the gentlemen connected with the interests in question, found that the subject was not fully inquired into, there was nothing to prevent another Committee being appointed to inquire particularly into the shipping affairs. The
 959
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the laws relating to the shipping of the country were of such a nature, as to prevent the interests of ships from being mixed up with either the manufactures or the commerce of the country. Although he admitted that the commerce and the shipping of the country were in some degree connected, yet still there were points in which they differed most materially. He could assure the noble Lord that the proposed inquiry, as far as it related to the shipping of the country, would be perfectly unsatisfactory to those connected with that branch of industry.
 Lord Althorp  said, that, if the business were not fairly conducted in the Committee, it would be then well to have a separate one for the shipping interest alone; but he thought the inquiry would be properly conducted.
 Sir John Byng  said, that the pluralists at the Horse Guards would be speedily subjected to the consideration of a Committee appointed to take the subject into their serious consideration. Nothing could be more judicious than the recommendation made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Henry Parnell), and he hoped his recommendation would be acted upon. In Ireland there was a necessity for an increase of force, and in the state of the Mauritius an increase of force was also necessary.
 Major Beauclerk  entreated the present Ministry not to oppose the expression of the public voice now so loudly uttered in favour of extensive and important reduction in our expenditure. Having voted for the reduction of the Malt-tax and Assessed taxes, he should feel it his duty, after this Motion was disposed of, to move that the numbers of the army be reduced 7,000 men. This was far short of the reduction proposed by the hon. member
 955
 Mr. Ellice  said, that as the number of men necessary for the service of the year had been already voted, it was only necessary for him briefly to recapitulate the statement, already made to the House by his right hon. predecessor (Sir John Hobhouse), The additional force required for Ireland this year, as compared with the last, exceeded 3,000 men, and it was thought necessary to increase the force in the colonies, chiefly the West Indies and the Mauritius, nearly to the same amount. The total increase, therefore, was 6,000 men. In England, he was happy to be able to say, it had been found practicable to diminish the military force to the extent of about 4,000 men, and he did not see at present how any greater reduction could be
 949 950 l
 Mr. Sinclair  trusted, that the last petition which had been presented would not be considered as speaking the sense of all the inhabitants from whence that petition came. The people of Scotland were sensible that they had derived many blessings from their own Establishment. They were also sensible, that the Established Church had rendered many important services to the general cause of Christianity; and though they desired all reasonable reforms, the abolition contemplated by these petitions they would consider the downfall of the establishment of the country, which would be one of the greatest misfortunes that could befall the united Kingdom.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  could assure the Committee, that it was not his intention to prevent his right hon. friend from taking as early a vote as possible, but he thought he could not remain silent after the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the member for Middlesex. He thought it preposterous to make the reduction proposed—a reduction, in short of 19,000 men. Looking to the circumstances in which the country was placed, he felt assured that the Committee would not accede to the Amendment proposed; and for his own part he would support the Resolution as proposed. The hon. Member had gone over the details of years past; he had taken, among others, the year 1823; but, in doing this, he had forgotten to state what had been the expense incurred by the public by the alternation of reductions, and increase from year to year. These alternations had been productive of very heavy expense to the country. He could show by details that, in the year 1820, there had been an addition of 110,000 veterans made to the army on account of the disturbances in England; in 1821, these men were disbanded; in 1822, a great reduction of 21,414 men took place; in 1823 and 1824, 4,560 infantry or six battalions, were raised. So in successive years
 953 l l l l 954 l
 Mr. Briscoe  said, he should not be doing his duty if he gave a silent vote. The question now at issue was, not a reduction of force, but a reduction of expense. If the Government would have a reduced expenditure in the military establishments of the country, they could relieve the people from the House and Window-duties. He was compelled the other night to give a most reluctant vote; but he could now tell his Majesty's Government that unless they reduced the expenditure of the country, that House and the Government would lose the confidence of the country. This was his honest opinion, and therefore it was that he had fearlessly stated it.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the present petitioners expressed an anxious wish, as a means of refuting the allegations of the former petition, that a full and strict investigation might be made into their proceedings, and yet they were about to proceed by criminal information. Why, if they wished for an impartial inquiry, did they not proceed so as to allow the parties an opportunity, if they could, of justifying themselves? Great stress was laid on the affidavits of the Corporation functionaries; they might consider, from long habit, that their conduct was correct; but so long as they proceeded in the way they had done, he should look with great suspicion not only on their statements, but upon their affidavits.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the Committee had not only to inquire into the number of troops which it might be deemed expedient or necessary to employ, but also into the means and capabilities of the country, and what number of troops it could afford to maintain. He would state the grounds of his opposition to the present grant, and leave the Committee to judge how far it was expedient to persist in it. In the first place, then, he must observe, that the 89,000 men set down in the present estimate, formed part only of the establishment for whose support the 3,168,000 l l l l l 951 l l l l l l l 952 l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that the object of his Motion had been misunderstood. He did not want any reduction of the number of men, if the reduction of the expenditure could be otherwise accomplished. He wished to see the surplus officers of the blues and of other regiments reduced; and to see the expenditure reduced in every possible manner. He confessed that he was at a loss to understand the principle of the vote of the hon. member for West Kent. If that hon. Gentleman allowed that the whole country desired a reduction
 957
 Mr. Hodges  felt objections to the proposed reduction of the hon. member for Middlesex as too extensive, and likely to be attended with great expense on the score of superannuations, incidental to his plan. He should, for these reasons, support the vote proposed by his Majesty's Ministers.
 Mr. William Evans , in reference to the petition which he had the honour to present, and which was now Said to contain gross and scandalous libels, said, it was signed by 5,800 individuals, including a great portion of the most respectable inhabitants of the town of Leicester, who, he believed, were utterly incapable of getting up such a petition, unless they knew that there were abuses in the Corporation, and that they felt the grievances of which they complained. A part of the allegations in the petition he knew to be true, and his opinion was, that, substantially, they were all true. The hon. Member (Mr. Halford) could not deny that the Corporation made 2,000 freemen at nearly one time; and, he would ask, was not that an abuse? Was that a false and gross libel? It was true that all of those 2,000 did not take up their freedom, but
 909
 Mr. Gillon  presented several Petitions, all of them very numerously signed, from most respectable bodies of persons in Scotland, for the general abolition of the Church Establishment of Ireland. They were from the Members of the Political Union of the Borough of Kilmarnock; from the Inhabitants of Hamilton; from the Chairman and Members of the Glasgow Political Union; from the Inhabitants of Carron, signed by 1,200 persons; and from the Inhabitants of the City of Glasgow, signed by 16,000 of the Inhabitants of that place. The hon. Member stated, they had all the same object, though their phraseology was different, and they considered that the alliance between the Church and State was un-scriptural, and injurious to the Church, and prayed the House to take some means, as speedily as possible, to redress the evils complained of. In his opinion, the Coercive Bill they had lately
 910
 Mr. William Roche : Sir, having recently received from a most respectable portion of my constituents, in the city of Limerick, the Petition which I hold in my hands relating to the interesting and important subject of last night's debate, namely, the expediency
 911 912 argumentum ad Crumenam
 Mr. Halford , in explanation, said, that they were only anxious to vindicate themselves, and, he believed, the only cause of complaint that existed against them was, that they were staunch friends to the Constitution in Church and State.
 Mr. Halford  held in his hand a Petition from the Mayor, Bailiffs, and Burgesses of the Borough of Leicester signed by the
 908 The Leicester Chronicle
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, he had heard the statement of the right hon. Secretary at War with great satisfaction, as he drew thence a favourable augury that the service generally would be henceforward gradually, but effectively, put on a reduced scale. He certainly thought with the hon. member for Middlesex, that the establishment was pitched at too high a point, and that the example of other countries had wrongly been taken as a basis by which to regulate the military force of England. The hon. Member, however, had in this instance proceeded upon what he considered to be mistaken notions of economy; for supposing that the amendments proposed by him were agreed to, the House, by voting for the reduction of so many men, would only be disbanding them, and throwing them upon the pension list of the army, from which they could not be recalled to active service. The example of the Duke of Wellington was that which he was particularly anxious to point out as worthy of imitation; for when that noble Duke held office, his only plan of reduction consisted in omitting to fill up the casualties which annually occur in the army, and if these, the average of which was very considerable, were suffered to remain unfilled, the hon. Member's object would be very soon attained. There never yet had been accounts placed before the House of so fair and explicit a nature as would enable that House to control the vast expenditure of these establishments. An improvement of the kind would be of the utmost advantange to the public.
 Lord Althorp  would not acquiesce in either of the reductions of our military force proposed by the hon. members for Middlesex or for Surrey. They were both of them too large to be safe. The only effectual economy within the reach of Government, at the present period, was that suggested by the right hon. member for Dundee—namely, the putting an end to the recruiting for the army. At present his Majesty's Government did not feel it safe or expedient to reduce the army; but if an opportunity should arise during the present year, when it might be deemed proper, he assured the Committee that opportunity would be embraced by Government, and the reduction would be attempted in the mode proposed by the right hon. member for Dundee. That project had been adopted by the Government of the Duke of Wellington to a great extent, and with considerable success.
 956
 Mr. Faith-full  presented a Petition from the electors and other inhabitants of Chichester, signed by between 3,000 and 4,000 individuals, complaining that the Reform Act contained no efficient clause for the prevention of bribery and undue influence at election's of Members to serve in Parliament. The petitioners complained in particular of the system of bribery and treating at the last election, and that, one of the candidates
 965
 Mr. Wynn  said, that a distinct message
 967
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the Bill was printed on Tuesday morning, and proposed to be read a second time on Thursday, and in the cursory glance which he gave to it under those circumstances, it could not be expected that he could discover all the blunders in it. He discovered one error which was fatal. The error now brought to light certainly had not struck him, but it was not the less important.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, it was true that there had been no specific message from his Majesty on this particular provision of the Bill which was now referred to; but it was equally manifest that in the Speech from the Throne, and in the subsequent recommendation to that House, a general sanction was given by his Majesty to the principle of the Bill. In the Speech from the Throne the attention of the House was called to the state of the Church, more particularly as regarded its temporalities and the maintenance of the clergy, and to the question whether the revenues of the
 969
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the King had signified in three different ways his sanction of the Bill—first, in the Speech from the Throne—next, in his recommendation to that House—and, thirdly, by the circumstance of the measure being brought forward by his Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Gourlburn  reiterated his objection to the proceeding, and said, that the precedent might be used hereafter to deprive the King of his remaining rights. He would ask the Speaker whether it was consistent with the orders of the House to read a Bill a second time containing an allegation relative to the conduct of the Crown which was not correct.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that if it had not been for the direct appeal which had been made to him individually by every Gentleman who had yet spoken, he should have waited till a later period in the debate to give his answer to the objections of hon. Gentlemen, both to the principle and to the details of this measure. But the speech of the hon. member for Kent called upon him to endeavour to correct a misunderstanding which weighed upon that hon. Member's mind, and endangered the loss of his vote to a measure which he seemed to a certain extent inclined to support. He was glad to learn from the speeches of the hon. member for the University of Dublin, and the hon. member for the University of Oxford, who might be considered fair representatives of the Church, that the opposition to this Bill on the part of the Church was confined to two or three points, which were susceptible of amendment in the progress of the Bill. At the same time, he should be deceiving the House and the hon. member for Dublin if he were to hold out any expectation that Government would accede to any of the Amendments which had been suggested upon those points. In the details of the greater portion of the Bill, all the speakers who had preceded him had expressed their concurrence. The hon. member for the University of Dublin had even gone much further than the two other hon. Gentlemen who espoused the same side of the question, and had stated, with a degree of candour which did him infinite honour, that he should not have objected to the details of this Bill, had it been brought forward by the friends, instead of the opponents of the Church. Now, to such a mode of arguing, it was very difficult for him (Mr. Stanley) to give any answer. "It is an excellent measure," said the hon. Member, "but because you, who are generally in the wrong, have chanced to blunder upon it, it is bad as coming from you; and therefore, though I believe it unimpeachable, I will now move that it be read a second time this day six months." The hon. Member had likewise said, that if the measure had been devised by a friend of the Church, he should have given it his support. The hon. Member had done him the favour of
 980 981 982 l l l 983 984 985 986
 Mr. Stanley  begged the right hon. Baronet's pardon, but there was a provision in the Bill which left the Bishop a choice, with the consent of the Commission, as to their place of residence.
 Mr. Lefroy  rose, and was met with loud laughter, and calls of "Question." After a short time comparative order was restored, and the learned Gentleman moved, that, the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Wynn  concurred with the noble Lord in deprecating the adjournment; but he must also deprecate the proceeding of not hearing an hon. Member who wished to address the House, and who was especially called upon to speak on this question. If there were any hon. Member who had a greater interest in this subject than another, it was the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin.
 Mr. Lefroy,  however, withdrew his Amendment, and the House divided on the Question, that the Bill be then read a second time: Ayes 317; Noes 78—Majority 239.
 Colonel Conolly  said, he was induced to oppose the measure then before the House on two grounds—he viewed it as a spoliative, as well as a most arbitrary measure. The grounds upon which the spoliation of the property of the Church was sought to be justified were of so wretched and miserable a description, that he was astonished how the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Colonies, with his splendid talents, could condescend to resort to arguments that were not sustained by anything like legitimacy of purpose. He was most happy to join his humble tribute of admiration to the eloquent declaration of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, as to the respectability of the Protestant Church of Ireland. No feeling was nearer his heart, than the wish to see the immunities and privileges of that Church handed down to posterity pure and unfettered. The Bill now before the House he considered particularly objectionable, as he thought the principle involved in it must finally prove destructive to all property. And let not hon. Members suppose, that the property of the Established Church in Ireland could be endangered, without the Established Church in England participating in her ruin. He considered the present measure as a sacrifice at the shrine of agitation. He would maintain, that it was an off-set to the measure which had been passed for the purpose of supporting the King's Government in Ireland. It had been called by his Majesty's Ministers a remedial measure, and even considering it in that point of view, he was satisfied it would not have the effect of tranquillizing the country. Permitting the property of the Church to be spoliated in the present instance would only tend to aggravate the ills of Ireland, and increase the desire for further spoliation; and he considered, that his Majesty's Ministers were, by their conduct, pandering to the revolutionary and destructive appetites which they could never satisfy. Independently of the demerits of the Bill—and upon those grounds alone he was strongly bound to oppose it—independently of its demerits—he considered
 1008 l No, no 1009
 Lord Arthur Lennox  said, that he felt indebted to the hon. member for Brighton for the courtesy he had shown him in apprising him of his intention of presenting the petition from Chichester on that day, as it afforded him an opportunity of replying to those parts of it which might seem to cast an imputation on him. That considerable sums of money had been expended by candidates for Chichester, to promote their return, within the memory of the petitioners, was most perfectly true; but when he informed the House that there had been no less than five severely contested elections for that place within the last seven years, he was sure they would not be Surprised that such should have been the case; neither would they be astonished if, in the heat of these contests there should have been an unusual demand for a beverage, the consumption of which it was a favourite project of a late Parliament, and he might add too, a favourite project of a Reformed House of Commons, to promote; but when it was asserted that a system of beer-drinking and treating still continued to prevail in Chichester, he denied the assertion in the most positive and unqualified terms, so far as it might be considered as relating to him, or to any of his friends. He denied also, on his own behalf that undue influence had been used, or that any elector
 966
 Lord John Russell  observed, that there was no more necessity for a specific message before the second than before the first reading.
 Mr. Shaw  said, it was wrong that the Bill should have been read a first time without the necessary Message; but that was the fault of those who brought the
 970
 Mr. Shaw,  having to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord, "that the Irish Church Temporalities Bill be now read a second time," was anxious to guard himself from the imputation of being opposed to all Reform—of being hostile to such alterations as time and circumstances might have rendered wise or necessary, as well as from the imputation of feeling any indisposition to correct abuses or adopt improvements which might, according to the language and professed objects of the Bill, "conduce to the advancement of religion, and to the efficiency, preeminence, and stability of the united Church of England
 971 972 973 l l l l 974 secundum artem 975 * * 976
 Mr. Goulburn  remarked, that this was no trifling question. It was, whether that House should enter into the consideration of the disposal of the hereditary revenues of the Crown without a previous message from the King, intimating that he placed those revenues at their disposal. The revenue derived in the case in question, was as much the hereditary revenue of the Crown as the revenue from the woods and forests. That the noble Lord was aware, that the House would not presume to interfere with the latter unless upon an express message, was evident from the fact that the noble Lord had himself, that very evening, delivered a message upon the subject. And be it recollected, that the message which the noble Lord had brought down respecting the woods and forests went only to inquire into their state and condition; how much more necessary was a message when the proposition was to destroy a part of the hereditary revenue of the Crown for ever? What part of the revenue of the Crown would be safe if such a course were permitted? Why should not any of the hon. Gentlemen behind him get up and propose a measure to dispose of some other part of the revenue of the Crown? The noble Lord, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, and as sworn to
 968
 Mr. Goulburn  stated, that he observed in the 16th section of the Bill a declaration that his Majesty had placed that part of the hereditary revenues of the Crown derived from the Archbishoprics and Bishoprics to be abolished, at the disposal of Parliament. He (Mr. Goulburn) had looked over the records of the House in order to discover any message from the Crown to that effect, but had been unable to find any. Perhaps, however, such a message had been delivered, and he begged to ask the noble Lord for information on the subject?
 Mr. Plumptre  was of opinion, that although in some respects the Bill did not go far enough, there were some provisions contained in it which no man who did not study the total subversion of the Church Establishment, could for a moment sanction. In the first place, to the proposed diminution of the number of bishoprics he could not, as a friend to the religion in which he had been educated, and as one desirous of maintaining inviolate the leading principles of the Irish Union, give his assent. The Bishops of Ireland ought, he maintained, to be subject to but one species of translation—namely, a translation from this to the next world. He was also strongly opposed to the contemplated appropriation of Church property to secular purposes. In his opinion it would be far more desirable to diminish the revenues than the number of the existing Bishops. If it were intended by Parliament to render the Bishops what they ought to be—namely, the guardians of those over whom they were placed, the faithful superintendents of those committed to their charge—surely the means to attain that end was not so to diminish their numbers that one-half of their duty should of necessity be neglected in order to enable them to attend properly to the other. He was by no means an advocate for continuing to the Bishops the large salaries they at present enjoyed, and would willingly consent to any measure with a view to the curtailment of their revenues. The plan he would recommend to his Majesty's Ministers was, not to diminish the number of Bishops, but to divide equally among them the amount of the revenues of those sees proposed to be retained. In conclusion, the hon. Member observed, that not seeing any prospect of so amending the Bill in
 979
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that some plan should be adopted of embodying the Rules and Orders of the House in a distinct and intelligible shape, so that every Member might be able, without difficulty, to make himself acquainted with them, instead of trusting to the research and experience of one or two particular Members. Certainly the rules of that House were not mere matters of form, and, by not following them, public business was continually delayed or risk was run of delaying it. Such a digest as he proposed had been made of the rules and orders of the Congress of the United States; and he must repeat, that it would be very convenient to have such a digest of the rules of that House.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that the Bill was based upon an assertion which was to-ally unfounded. The 32nd clause of the Bill stated, that his Majesty had been pleased to signify his intention to place at the disposal of Parliament his interest in the temporalities and custody of certain Archbishoprics and Bishoprics, whereas his Majesty had been graciously pleased to do no such thing. They ought not to proceed on an allegation void of truth.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that if this objection were valid, a great deal of time must be lost, because it would be necessary to begin again. It would be time enough to reject the clause in the Committee, if it appeared that it was not properly authorised.
 Mr. Robert Grant  felt it to be his duty to state the grounds on which he meant to support this Bill. It was impossible that the feelings of his hon. friend who had just spoken could be more strongly opposed to the measure than his were in favour of it. To use the expression of his hon. friend, "from the crown of the head to the sole of the foot—from the preamble, to the concluding schedule, "the provisions of the Bill should receive his cordial approbation. The first point in the speech of his hon. friend, to which he found it necessary to advert, was the demurrer, if he might use the phrase, which his hon. friend had put forward against the jurisdiction of the House to legislate on this subject, without having first consulted the Church—without having, in fact, the opinion of the convocation regularly convened on this subject. Now, he joined issue with his hon. friend on this point. He had not heard that any of those Gentlemen, who, though they might be hostile to this measure, yet wished for a Reform, and a considerable Reform, in the Church—he did not hear that any of them were anxious that a convocation should be specially summoned, in order that they might be consulted as to the alterations which it would be proper to make in the system. If they thought that such a course was the proper one, why then, let a motion for that purpose be made, in order that the House might discuss it regularly. He, however, would say, not only that Parliament was competent to proceed in this course, without any such consultation, but that it was its duty to undertake, without delay, the Reform of the Church. They were bound to consider this measure, and if it appeared to be a good one, they were equally bound to agree to it. What was the object of the measure? Why, the consolidation, and not, as his hon. friend had
 993 crescenti numero populorum augetur numerus episcoporum non numero, sedpondere; 994 l
 Mr. Estcourt  begged leave to second this Amendment, and must say, that he did so most cordially. He was aware of the outcry that was raised against the Church cess, and the great anxiety that many people manifested to get rid of it; but he wished them to recollect, that this was an impost for the support of the Church, not only small in itself, but placed upon the land on which it had been charged for a long time, so that the present possessors of the land had taken the land subject to this charge. It was, in fact, a charge upon the landlord, and he was therefore surprised that Irish Members should be found to declare, that it was a payment made by the occupier of the soil. If the Church cess were taken off, it would be imposed upon the tenant for the benefit of the landlord, who now received less rent than he otherwise would do, on account of the cess. If that fund were now to be taken from the Church, and to go, as it would, into the pockets of the owners of the soil, he should much object to the change, for he should consider it as an application of Church funds to secular purposes. This Bill, and the former Bill which had been introduced on this subject, had been some time before the House, but
 977 l 978
 The Speaker  said, the question appeared to him to be whether the message would be in time, between the second reading and the Committee, or whether it ought to be before the second reading. If it ought to precede the second reading, it appeared to him that it ought equally to have preceded the first. If the House were authorized to deal with the principle of the Bill at the first reading, whatever may be its contents, they could not be altered, before the details came to be considered in Committee. If the House should go into Committee without the message, that part of the Bill to which the message should refer would not be within its jurisdiction. If the House considered that there had been a sufficient sanction for the first reading, in his opinion there was also a sufficient sanction for the second; but if there were sufficient for both, still it did not follow that there was sufficient for the House to deal with the Bill in Committee.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that, from the first moment the present measure had been introduced he entertained, and had constantly expressed, the strongest aversion to it, and, so far from reflection tending to remove that impression, or render him lukewarm in his opposition to it, every hour's consideration increased the aversion with which he viewed most of its leading principles. In two respects, indeed, it was improved; and he thanked his Majesty's Ministers for the improvement, since the present Bill respected the vested rights of existing incumbents; and above all, since it did not provide, as before, for the permanent depression of Protestantism by closing for ever any church in which, for any three years, the service had not been celebrated. That power was now limited to three years before the passing of this Act. [Mr.  Stanley: 987 988 pari passu 989 990 "Demo unum, demo etiam unum," inter se d s d 991 l s d. l 992
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed his concurrence in the sentiments of his right hon. friend. It was distinctly stated in the Bill, that his Majesty had placed the revenues in question at the disposal of the House; and bow could they proceed to read the Bill a second time, and sanction that assertion, unless they had that assent formally signified?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the occurrence was clearly an oversight. The noble Lord must know as well as he did, that there ought to have been the same message with regard to this Bill as there had been this evening relative to the Woods and Forests. As to the recommendation from his Majesty, that did not affect the question, for the right hon. Gentleman must be aware that that recommendation would have been equally necessary if there were no revenues of the Crown to be resigned.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there were some of the objects contemplated in this Bill of which he approved; there were details in it which he admitted were capable of improvement in the Committee, and objections had been urged
 995 996 l l 997 998 999
 Sir Robert Peel  had not adverted to that particular provision of the Bill, but as it stood at present it abolished three bishoprics, and thus, unless the Bishops changed their residence, it would leave Cork, Waterford, and Kilkenny, three of the largest cities in the South of Ireland, without a resident Bishop, and of course the Protestant populations of those cities without that episcopal superintendence they had hitherto enjoyed. And here he would take the opportunity of observing that he objected to no provisions of the Bill which would render the Protestant religion more stable by requiring a strict discharge of these duties from its Ministers. He wanted to see the spreading of the Reformation in Ireland, which he feared had as yet scarcely commenced. God grant that its progress had only been delayed by the unhappy discords which prevailed there since the Reformation—that the existence of the political disabilities of the Roman Catholics, and the jealousies and suspicions inseparable from them had been the main causes of impeding the progress of the Reformation. God grant that the period might soon arrive when a real reformation would take place, not through the operation of constraints upon conscience, but through the removal of every impediment to the natural progress of divine truth. That such would be the case was a conviction deeply impressed upon his mind. The House ought, therefore, to be cautious (to use a phrase already so justly employed) before they controlled the expansive force of the Protestant faith by diverting the provision made for the support of its ministers to secular purposes, and depriving it of the power of filling a more extended sphere of duty. There was one principle involved in the Bill, to which he would never consent—that by which the property of the Church being improved by an act of the Legislature was diverted from ecclesiastical, and applied to secular purposes. Entertaining the opinions he did of the ability of the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Stanley), he never was so disappointed as
 1000 bona fide 1001 1002 1003 l 1004 hear, hear 1005
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that it was very dangerous to assert any principle which interfered with any established right of property. He could not, however, admit, that there was any analogy between Church property, and that of Corporations—and still less was there any between it, and the property of individuals, which came to them by inheritance. In the case of the holders of Church property, they obtained their rights neither by inheritance nor purchase, but by the arbitrary choice of the Crown, or of certain individuals who held the right of appointing them. The right hon. Gentleman, he understood, did not object to converting Bishops' leases into perpetuities, but he objected to appropriating the increased value thereby given to the property to the State. But the right hon. Gentleman objected principally on account of the smallness of the amount, and seemed to admit, that he would have no objection to it, provided the amount were considerable. After that admission, he did not understand how the right hon. Gentleman could object to the principle, or say it was inequitable or unjust; all that he was entitled to say was, that it was impolitic. The right hon. Gentleman agreed, too, in the principle, that the Church cess ought to be abolished, but objected to the mode of providing for that expense. For his part he did not see, if it were to come out of the property of the Church, as the right hon. Gentleman admitted, why it should not come out of the revenues of the clergy. He believed that, in principle, he and the right hon. Gentleman agreed; and he should be happy to take into consideration, in the Committee, any objections the right hon. Gentleman might make to the details. The right hon. Gentleman had objected to the graduated tax on the in-
 1006 l l l l 1007
 Lord Althorp  begged to explain, that the noble Lord had certainly misunderstood him. He had never said, or thought, that the Bill would in any way endanger property. He had admitted, that an attack upon Church property would endanger other property, but he denied that this Bill was an attack upon Church property.
 Lord Althorp  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not persist. They should never be able to decide any question if they went on in that way.
 Lord Althorp  regretted, that this objection had not been raised at the time the former objection was raised to the mode of proceeding. He thought, however, that the passage in the Speech from the Throne at the commencement of the pressent Session, in which his Majesty observed, "your attention will also be directed to the state of the Church, more particularly as regards the temporalities and the maintenance of the clergy," was quite sufficient. His Majesty, in that passage, called upon the House to enter into the consideration of the subject.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was true that there was no specific message such as that alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman; but that he did not conceive any such specific message to be necessary. The subject had been referred to by his Majesty in his Speech on the opening of Parliament, and his assent had been officially signified in the Committee.
 Lord Althorp  having moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Irish Church Temporalities Bill.
 Lord Castlereagh  blamed the Ministers for not procuring a hearing for the Members of that (the Opposition) side of the House. The consequence of that would be, that they would all be made Repealers [ cries of louder cries of
 Lord Sandon  being met by loud cries of "Question," and "Divide," said, he should stand there till he was heard. He wished to state the reasons for his vote. He agreed in nearly all which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, and yet he meant to vote against him; and he wished to explain why. There was no one part of the preamble of the Bill in which he did not agree; and the only part of the measure, which could scarcely be called a principle of it, in which he did not agree was, that for the appropriation of an imaginary surplus to arise at some future time, as Parliament might think fit. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) admitted, as he interpreted the noble Lord's speech, that this part would be a blow to the security of property; and, in his opinion, it was not worth while, for the sake of appropriating an imaginary surplus, to establish a principle which would weaken the security of property. If he could not alter that provision of the Bill in the Committee, he should probably hereafter think it his duty to vote against it. He agreed with a large part of it, and he was anxious to see a reform in the Church—anxious to see the clergy bound to perform their duties; but he wished, by giving this explanation of his vote, to prevent its being supposed by the public, that those who voted for Church reform were pledged to a principle which violated a principle of property for the sake of an imaginary surplus.
 Mr. O'Connell : I rise to move, that the affirmation of the hon. member for Durham be taken as equivalent to the oath required by the Act to be taken by the members of Election Committees. The principle on which we formerly decided that the hon. Member could take his seat, on making his affirmation, clearly governs this case. That decision of ours rested upon the constructions of various Acts of Parliament, enabling the people called Quakers to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath. Those Acts do not expressly contemplate the case of a Quaker becoming a Member of Parliament;
 1021
 Mr. O'Connell : The excepted cases are, the giving evidence in criminal cases, the being upon Juries, and the holding of emolumentary offices under the Crown. Now certainly this is no office under the Crown. The Committee is not a Jury; nor is it a criminal case that is to come before it. I therefore beg to move, that the affirmation of the hon. member for Durham be received instead of his oath.
 Mr. O'Connell : I trust the Chair did not so misunderstand me as to suppose I could say anything that did not recognise, I hardly like to say the propriety, for it is too weak a word, of its interference; for I felt, in common with every Member of the House, that what was done by you, Sir, was perfectly consistent with the whole course of your conduct, and was distinguished by strict impartiality, and a love of justice. It is impossible to doubt the fitness of your calling the particular attention of the House to this case, being the first time of its arising. I have now the Act of Parliament, containing the exceptions lie-fore me, and I find them to be what I stated. Having allowed the hon. Member
 1022
 Colonel Wood  said, a great part of the evils complained of arose from the application of the Vagrancy Act to casual poor in the metropolis and other places. The parishes, in order to relieve themselves from the expense of passing them, described them as vagrants, and thus saddled the counties with the expense. The short remedy would be to make the parishes remove their own Irish and Scotch paupers, and that the natives of the three divisions of the kingdom should be placed on the same footing.
 Lord Duncannon  said, it was a great hardship to send the Irish poor over to a country where they had no means of relief but by begging their way through their own country or returning to this. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, that great consideration ought to be given to the peculiar circumstances of Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that so long as the Parliament of this country oppressed Ireland as they had done, so long must the people of Ireland hate and detest it; and certainly no Parliament that had ever existed in England was deserving of more indignation and hatred on the part of Ireland than the present, which had done so much against and so little for that unfortunate country. Until justice instead of injustice was done to Ireland, the account between the two countries could not be settled; and unless something was done to ameliorate the condition of the Irish people, the Government might rest satisfied that Ireland would never be other than a source of daily embarrassment to them. In England the population had increased, between 1821 and 1831, at the rate of fifteen per cent, while in Ireland the increase for the same period did not exceed eight per cent.
 1026 l l 1027
 Lord Duncannon  said, it had occurred to him that the House would prefer having the question referred to a Committee in the first instance, but if a Commission were then found necessary, his Majesty's Government would not object to it. The hon. member for Colchester had stated, that large sums had come into the Treasury of the Woods and Forests, from 1826 to 1830, which had not yet been brought to the public account. The hon. Gentleman must be aware that a heavy debt had been contracted under the authority of Parliament, which must be paid before the money could be made available for other purposes. He believed the whole amount was 1,500,000 l l l
 The Solicitor General  said, that, he was decidedly opposed to the plan of throwing the expenses of the office of Sheriff upon
 1033
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, and hoped that the Bill would be withdrawn.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that if the expense amounted to 600 l l
 Mr. Richard Potter  trusted, that no expense would be thrown upon the counties connected with the office of Sheriff and if Gentlemen of suitable fortune were appointed, there could be no necessity whatever for so doing. He agreed with several hon. Members that respectable attorneys in some counties were anxious to undertake the office of Deputy, and free the High Sheriff from all charge. In the county he was connected with (Lancashire), it was well known that, on a gentleman being appointed to the honourable and ancient office of Sheriff, there were always numbers of most respectable solicitors eager to become the Sheriff's Deputy, and free him from all expense whatever. In ordinary times the gain to the Under Sheriff was generally about 1,000 l l l
 Mr. Strickland  said, in the county which he represented, the expenses of the Sheriff were never less than 1,500 l l 1034
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  had not brought in the Bill upon his own responsibility, but at the recommendation of a Committee previously appointed to examine into the subject. Many of the abuses now relating to the nomination of Sheriffs would be done away by the bill, and on the whole he thought it would be a benefit to country gentlemen.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he had always thought that the time of that House would be most economically and usefully employed by attending to one subject at a time. Very soon after he had become a Member of the House, he had adverted to the subject of the Crown Lands; and lour years ago had pressed the House to inquire into the real state and condition of the property in question, respecting which he had submitted
 1028 l l l l l 1029
 Mr. Shaw  could not help expressing his astonishment at the expression made use of by the hon. member for Birmingham. The hon. Member, he believed, had the kindest intentions towards the poor; but he must say, he took the strangest way of showing those intentions by prejudicing the people against disposing of the little spare money they had in a way which was most likely to render them independent and comfortable. He was opposed to the Poor-laws; the hon. Member he believed was in favour of them, and he would just leave it to himself to say which of the two systems were the most likely to cherish independence.
 Mr. Hume  was glad that the subject was to be inquired into, and hoped it would be extended to Ireland and Scotland.
 Mr. Godson  begged to refer the House to the 22nd Geo. 2nd, c. 46, wherein it was enacted that, in all cases wherein an oath was required by an Act of Parliament already passed, or thereinafter to be passed, the affirmation of a Quaker might be received.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, that the subject of the Motion he was about to submit to the House—namely, the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the laws relative to the passing of Irish vagrants—was one which intimately interested the whole community; and when it was considered how deeply affected many of the counties in England were by the operation
 1023 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1024
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, it was not intended that the Committee should inquire into the extent of relief that ought to be given to Irish paupers, but only as to the best means of providing for the expense of their removal.
 Mr. Slaney  thought, that nothing showed more the good sense and proper feeling of the lower classes than the preference they gave to Government Securities over country bankers. The hon. Member had probably heard the story of Franklin about the two sacks. The empty sack, he said, fell to the ground, but the full sack stood upright. Surely the more property the people had, the more likely were they to be independent. He was happy to find that, though during the crisis of last Session the amount of deposits had diminished, they were now daily increasing.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  expressed his disapprobation of these Savings' Banks. He believed they were instituted by the late Lord Liverpool and the Government at the time, not for the good of the people, but for three different purposes. The first was to draw capital to London, in order to bolster up the funds; the second was, to give the Government the power of putting their hands into the pockets of the people; and the third, to enable them to scourge the people. [" Oh! Oh!
 Mr. Cobbett  trusted, that in any law which should be proposed to the Committee, due consideration would be given to the situation of the persons spoken of. The people of Ireland were left comparatively destitute of food, although their country furnished two of the largest counties of England, Yorkshire and Lancashire, with great quantities of provisions; regard should therefore be had to the circumstance, that Ireland sent much of her subsistence to England; and it ought to be remembered, since Ireland sent so much of her food to
 1025
 Mr. Cobbett  thought, that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests had done very wrong in wasting all this property in beautifying streets, and building houses and fine palaces in the metropolis. Of all the mistakes ever fallen into by the Government, none was greater than that of expending large sums of money on this particular spot. Instead of accumulating and adding to the crowd of idlers in London, it ought to be the object of Government to diminish the attractions of the spot. As it was, however, something was taken away from every part of the country, in order to enlarge London. The building of the Penitentiary was a most unwise measure. It cost a million of money, and a number of persons were brought up to London to assist in its erection. What he rose, however, to observe was, that as soon as possible, efforts should be made to recover Crown property which had unjustly got into other hands, in order to enable; the Treasury to take off some of the taxes. The hon. member for Colchester valued the property at 15,000,000 l 1031
 The Speaker  said, that he had only done what he conceived to be his duty in calling the attention of the House to the subject. As the House seemed to feel so strongly, and to concur so unanimously in the reception of the hon. Member's affirmation, he would suggest that the affirmation be received with the consent of the House, but without the formality of putting the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 The Speaker : I am persuaded, that no Member in the House, not even the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed it, will conceive that I was improperly actuated in bringing this matter forward. I am sure he will pardon me also, for my, perhaps, rather disorderly calling upon him to state the exceptions. Of course, the third exception—that preventing the affirmation of Quakers being taken upon entering into any office of emolument under the Crown, never came across my mind. What did occur to me was, whether it was possible any analogy might be thought to exist between this case and that of serving upon Juries, or giving evidence in criminal cases. The hon. Member is of opinion, and probably the House will be of opinion that the case before us comes within neither exception, but looking to the criminal consequences that might occur to parties interested, I feel it to be my duty to bring the fact before the House.
 The Speaker : What are the excepted cases?
 The Speaker  said, I wish to call the attention of the House to the situation in which it is now placed for the first time. I feel it to be my duty thus to arrest the course of its business; but when I have stated the cause of my having done so, it will be for the House to decide what course it will pursue. The reduced list of eleven Members in this Election Committee has now been returned to this House. The Act states, that these eleven shall be embodied into a Committee, and before it proceeds to any business shall be sworn at the Table. One of the Members so returned, the House has decided to be competent to discharge his duties as a Member of the House on making his affirmation. But the question for the House now to consider is, whether that decision necessarily comprehends the duty to be performed by a Member of this Select Committee under a special Act of Parliament. Can the hon. Member sit in this Committee without taking that oath, or doing something else which the House shall decide to be synonymous, and equivalent to taking that oath? In other words, is the affirmation upon which the hon. Member performed the duties of a Member of this House to be considered equivalent to the oath directed to be taken by this separate Act of Parliament?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the anomaly might exist, and required to be removed by an Act of Parliament. He did not think the decision they had come to in the former case necessarily governed this, which rested upon an Act of Parliament passed subsequently to the Quakers' Relief Act. He considered, however, that this Committee did not come within either of the three exceptions in that Act; and that, therefore, the hon. Gentleman might be allowed to make his affirmation.
 Lord Althorp  thought, that as the House had already decided that the Act of Parliament did not prevent Quakers from taking their seats in the House, the same rule should apply in the present instance.
 Lord Althorp  had no objection whatever to the appointment of a Select Committee, but would not at present pledge himself to any particular course.
 Lord Althorp  rose to defer the third reading of this Bill until to-morrow, not being completely prepared to announce all the alterations that might be desirable in-it.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that although there could be no doubt that much exaggeration had taken place with respect to the value of the woods, forests, and land revenues, belonging to the Crown, yet that it was certainly desirable that an inquiry should be made into their state and condition, with a view that they might be rendered as beneficial and productive as possible. The course which he intended to pursue was, in the first place, to move an Address to his Majesty in answer to his Majesty's most gracious message, and afterwards to propose the appointment of a Select Committee on the subject. The noble Lord concluded by moving "that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, thanking him for his most gracious message, and assuring him that the House would take the subject into immediate consideration."
 Lord Althorp  was astonished that the hon. Member, in addition to these three charges, had not made another, and imputed to Government the introduction of the Savings' Banks Bill, because they wished to realize profit by means of the fractional
 1032
 Lord Morpeth  rejoiced at the unexpected occurrence which had taken place, as he had a notice on the books which he trusted would remove all difficulties like the present.
 Captain Elliott  said, he had been called up, by the observations of his hon. and gallant friend, to say a few words on the subject. The gallant Admiral had objected to the pier, because it would throw a number of persons out of employment who had peculiar claims for the consideration of the House; and because the pier would be au impediment to the safe navigation of the river. The pier at Woolwich, to which the Admiralty had objected, was a solid piece of masonry, and therefore formed a positive impediment; but the Gravesend pier was to be built upon iron stauncheons, which would admit of the flux and reflux of the tide. With respect to the pension of 6 d
 Mr. Tyrell  explained, that he held the tithes under a lease from the Dean and Chapter of Windsor; that he had received the property by inheritance, and not liking it, had endeavoured more than once to dispose of it for a suitable consideration, but had not been successful. He had now let the tithes, but not till he had made every effort to come to an arrangement with the parish on the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that there could be no doubt that the individual in question ought to be prosecuted, since he was the person who, without the candidate's own consent, had sought after him, had brought him forward, and had returned him; but there were other persons besides Mr. Lisle who might have been guilty of bribery and corruption at the Newry election, and he recommended that the Attorney-General should be invested with a discretion to prosecute any other individuals who, in the course of his inquiries might appear to him to have been culpable.
 Mr. Baring  did not mean to oppose the Motion, but he could not avoid remarking on the different practice of the House in the Stafford and in the Newry cases. In the latter case, the one individual charged with bribery was ordered to be prosecuted; in the former case a Bill of Indemnity was brought in, in favour of all the persons charged with the same offence.
 Mr. Strickland  had thought, after the general opposition manifested to this measure last year, that all idea of proceeding with it, had been abandoned. He did not mean to say that the attornies in the metropolis might not be favourable to it; but the opposition to the scheme through the rest of England, was powerful and universal. He could not imagine for what object it had now been brought forward, unless it were to throw out a tub to the whale, and divert public attention from such unpleasant subjects as the repeal of the House and Window-tax, and the Maltduty. As for carrying it, he was satisfied that the hon. and learned Gentleman knew that it was impossible. A proposition for the establishment of a general registry was made in the time of Oliver Cromwell, and all the lawyers then in the House were strongly opposed to it; now, however, many of the learned profession were in favour of a scheme of the sort. In those days, the lawyers were actuated by different motives from those which influence them now, they were then only excited by patriotic feelings to bring forward those plans which they thought would be beneficial to the country, but now they must be paid high salaries for acting as Commissioners, and they exerted themselves to carry measures, the only effect of which could be to increase litigation. The present measure was the first-fruits of a law commission, which had cost the country 28,000 l 1057 1058 l Solicitor General l 1059
 Mr. Duncombe  asked the hon. and learned Gentleman to exclude Yorkshire from his proposed Bill, because he felt satisfied that its operation would not be beneficial to that county. He would not oppose the measure in its present stage, but he should do so afterwards, if Yorkshire was included in it.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that his own opinion was, that this grant was illegal; but he thought that it would be indecorous in the House to adjudicate upon it, and to deprive the noble Lord of it in his absence, and without hearing what he might have to urge in support of it. He was, therefore, of opinion that the best plan which the House could follow would be the adoption of the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. It was certainly a curious thing to give Lord Dunglass 300 l l l 1065
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the object he had in view was to induce the House to pass a Resolution directing that in every Inclosure Bill hereafter passed, a clause shall be inserted to provide for the allotment of a certain portion of land, to such of the labouring poor as shall be willing to hire it at a moderate rent. He apprehended that would be one of the best modes of withdrawing the agricultural labourer from illegal or profligate pursuits, and of restoring to him, at least in some degree, those habits of steadiness and providence which were wont to be his chief characteristics. The plan had already been tried in several places, and particularly at Saffron Walden, with complete success; and by the Report of a Society, calling itself "The Labourers' Friend Society," it appeared that it had led not only to a considerable increase of the comforts of the poor, but also to a material diminution of the Poor-rates in every instance in which it had been carried into operation. What he proposed was, "that a portion of land be allotted out of the commonable lands, or waste grounds to the incumbent of the living, and the parish officers, for the time being, and the owners of 100 acres of land, in such parish, as trustees, to let the same in small portions at low rents, to all labourers resident in the parish, who may be desirous of hiring the same—such rents to be paid to the parish officers for the time being, in aid of the Poor-rates." And in contemplation of any objection that might be raised as to the impossibility of particular parishes being able to comply with such a regulation, he had added this proviso—"unless any special reason can be shown why such allotment cannot conveniently or properly be made in that particular instance." He trusted, therefore, that he had so worded the Motion, as effectually to shut out any objection that such a resolution or such a plan could not be adopted, because it could not be made applicable in every instance. One of the arguments which he had heard urged against the proposition was, that it would interfere to the prejudice of private property. He maintained that it would have no effect of the kind—on the contrary, by improving the condition of the poor—by rendering them more contented, more happy, and more orderly,
 1066 l l l l 1067
 Mr. Lennard  said, those practices might be described by some as amusements; for his own part, he viewed them as cruelties. He, therefore, should support the clause. It was true, that individuals might proceed by indictment; but the process was so dilatory and so uncertain, that it was almost useless to resort to it. He concurred in the propriety of the clause, and was glad that the hon. Member had brought it forward.
 Mr. Hill  opposed the clause. He did not see how it could be fairly agreed to, unless the House was prepared to put down coursing, pigeon-shooting, angling, &c. The House would not surely proceed on the puritanical principle and
 Compound for sins they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought the present opportunity afforded by the proposition the hon. member for South Durham ought not to be suffered to pass unimproved. This experiment to repress these cruel and immoral associations he hoped would lead to a more general measure being adopted by the Legislature to accomplish so truly desirable an object.
 Sir John Byng  having been Chairman of the Committee appointed to inquire respecting the Newry Election, had to move according to notice, and according to the Resolution of the Committee, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, to give directions to the Attorney-General for Ireland to
 1044
 Captain Elliot  would not go further into the subject, than to say, that the sailor referred to had been examined by a medical officer, who had recommended that he should go for a time into the hospital, as there was a hope that his sight would be restored.
 Mr. Lamb  said, he felt it to be his duty
 1068
 Mr. Rotch  contended the clause was very desirable with the view to prevent the practice of frequenting these pits for fighting dogs, and pursue other such inhuman sports, by disorderly and dishonest persons. They were too often the haunts of vagabonds and thieves. The clause, too, was to be confined to within five miles of the metropolis, and that with the view to prevent the congregating together of loose and idle persons, who often met in these places for no other purpose than to plan the robbery of individuals, burglary, and rifling of banks in this city.
 Mr. Edward Buller  called the serious attention of the House to the statements of the petitioners, which were of the greatest importance to the interests of the Church as well as to the public. It was the existence of such things that was shaking the foundations of the Church, which might be a national blessing.
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, those remarks did not apply to the Bill as it stood at present, but to the Bill as it was originally framed. Most of the alterations had been made at the suggestion of the hon. Member (Mr. Potter) himself, and therefore he had no ground of complaint.
 Mr. Wilbraham , in bringing up the Report of the Committee, containing Amendments to the Birkenhead (Cheshire) Improvement Bill, moved that they be read a second time.
 Mr. George F. Young  was of opinion, that the proposed clause ought to be agreed to, because it would have the effect of putting an end to practices which had a demoralizing influence on the people.
 Mr. Hume  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but he thought that on one of such importance the Resolution ought to be printed, and full time allowed for its consideration. He would therefore propose that the debate on this question be adjourned to that day week.
 Mr. Hume  rose to call in question the right of his late Majesty to grant a pension to Lord Dunglass. The question he was about to bring before the House was one of great importance, because it involved a principle which, if disallowed, would put an end to all sinecures and pensions. The Country was staggering under the weight of its burthens, and one way to relieve it would be to repudiate the principle he alluded to. He held a table of pensions in his hand, from which he would select one or two, to show the evil effect of granting civil pensions. There were two sinecures which dated from the year 1694, and which had, calculated to the present time, cost the country 50,000,000 l l l l 1064 l l l s
 Mr. Pease  thought that, in common courtesy, they ought to allow the present Motion to pass, and that afterwards improvements might be suggested, which, if not attended to, would afford a fairer opportunity of opposing the measure.
 Mr. Pease  proposed a clause, to the effect to give Magistrates the power of punishing persons who kept places for bear-baiting, dog-fighting, and other cruel sports of that kind, which tended so much to demoralize those who assisted at them, and also to punish those who were present at such sports.
 Mr. Pease,  in reply, observed that his sole object in bringing forward the clause was to aid the Magistracy of the metropolis ill putting down these places, which it was admitted were the constant haunts of the idle and immoral, and in the continuance of which the police found the greatest obstacle to the coercion of the guilty, and the repression of plans for robbery and outrage.
 Mr. Richard Potter  begged to be permitted to make a few observations before the Report was received. On the Committee meeting to whom this Bill was referred, they were told, that as there was no opposition, the Committee need not be detained. A Petition had been presented against the Bill numerously and respectably signed. It was said, there was no necessity to read it; it was, however, read, The Committee then proceeded with the Bill, and he believed he was justified in saying, that the cases were rare in which a Bill had received so many and such important and necessary alterations as the Amendments in the hands of the Speaker would show. As the Bill stood, the vacancies of Commissioners were to be filled up by the remaining number, so that in a few years they would have been a self-elected body. The Committee had fixed that all future
 1036 l l l l l l
 Mr. William Brougham  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to establish a general Registry of Deeds and Instruments relating to Real Property; and said, that the importance of the question rendered it necessary for him to trespass on the attention of the House, for a short time, by entering into some details. No measure proposed for the Reform of the Law, was of greater importance than that which he was about to propose; and there was none, he was convinced, which would lead to greater benefits. He should feel considerable hesitation in grappling with so important a matter, did he not know that it had already been under the consideration of Parliament, and discussed with a minuteness which left little either of information or of argument to be supplied. The question was brought before the House of Commons in the time of the Commonwealth, and was then defeated. Cromwell then stated, that he must abandon the measure, because the sons of Zernich (meaning the lawyers) were too strong for him. Subsequent Parliaments had noticed the matter, though nothing was done until the appointment of the Real Property Commission in 1828. That Com-mission consisted of eight distinguished members of the legal profession, with the present Solicitor-General at their head, and, after investigating the subject with
 1045 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050 1051 qui prior est tempore, pallor est jure; 1052 1053 caveat caveat 1054 1055 1056
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the hon. Member appeared not to be aware, that one-half of the tithes in the kingdom belonged to lay-impropriators. Perhaps he was not aware of that. Such, however, was the fact, and to get rid of the inconveniences arising out of this would be very difficult indeed; too difficult, he feared, for the King's present servants to undertake. With regard to what was said about the Dean and Chapter of Windsor, he (Mr. Cobbett) would only remark, that the Dean and Chapter of Winchester had been accused of similar things; and they had sought to justify themselves by alleging that the Aristocracy had a larger share of the Church property than they had. They did not content themselves merely with general statements, but they also mentioned by name many of these Church cormorants, and they gave the name of one nobleman who was said to receive more of what was called Church property than the whole of the twenty-six Bishops, while his conduct was such, that the inhabitants of one parish had been obliged to sue him at law to make him re-
 1040
 The Speaker  considered that any discussion on the principles of pensions was out of order.
 Sir Edward Codrington  presented a Petition from the Watermen of Gravesend, praying to be heard by Counsel against the Gravesend Pier Bill. The hon. and gallant Admiral stated, that since the Second Reading of that Bill he had been to Gravesend, and was enabled to state his decided opinion, notwithstanding the opinion of the Admiralty Board to the contrary, that a projection like the proposed pier, which extended 205 feet in the river, and into a depth of twenty-seven
 1037 d l l d
 Sir Edward Codrington  considered that he was quite in order in alluding to the situation of that class of persons who would be most grievously injured by the proposed Bill. It was important to them that they
 1038
 The Solicitor-General  thought, that the
 1060 1061 1062 l 1063
 The Solicitor General  was convinced that the argument used by the last speaker, when calmly considered, would be deemed an objection strong enough to induce the House to reject the clause. If these consequences were to be anticipated from the continuance of the practice, why was not a Bill of a general nature brought in to repress these sports throughout the country? The interests of morality would seem to require a general measure instead of beginning to legislate for a district in the manner of an experiment.
 Mr. John Romilly  objected to the clause. It was, us he thought, improperly introduced ill a Police Regulation Bill. In a Bill for the prevention of cruelty to animals it might fairly be inserted.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  stated, he had a Petition to present of rather a novel character, as it related to tithes of a particular parish—the parish of Uttoxeter, in Stafford. Although the tithes (amounting to 1,200 l l 1039
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to Order. He thought the gallant Admiral was wandering from the question in making an irrelevant attack, not only on preceding Administrations, but on the present Ministry; and that the subject of the petition did not warrant his going into the topics he had introduced.
 Lord Morpeth  rose to submit his Motion to the House for leave to bring in a Bill to allow the Affirmation of Quakers to be received in all cases in which oaths were at present required to be taken. At present Quakers were only disqualified from two offices—namely, any office under the Crown, and from serving on juries; he proposed that the Affirmation of Quakers be received in all eases, and thereby they would be qualified to do that from which they were now debarred. His Bill would also prevent the repetition of those trifling delays which had recently taken place in that House on the hon. member for South Durham (Mr. Pease) taking his seat, and again yesterday when that hon. Member was ballotted to serve on an Election Committee. Looking at the question upon general grounds, he could not see how a Legislature that had taken away the necessity of an oath from this religious class, in cases of life and death, could stop short in admitting them to all the privileges, and immunities of the State, from whose imposts and support they were not exempt; and to which they contributed so much by their industry, enterprise, good order, and wealth. There could be no expectation, whilst the state of society continued as it was at present, that the Quakers would be called on to take a seat in the Cabinet. From the naval and military departments and generally from the service of the State, they would continue to be excluded by their own tenets; but there were many places which they were well qualified to fill, and to which they might prudently aspire. He would illustrate this by relating a circumstance which came immediately under his own notice, connected with this subject, and which, indeed, had first impressed his mind with the necessity of having those disabilities removed. He remembered the case of an individual, a native of Barnsley, in Yorkshire, who had been introduced to him in consequence of his taste in literature. This young man was in a humble walk of life, and a vacancy occurring in the
 1041 1042 1043
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  rose to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the state of the relations of this country with the kingdom of Holland, and especially to the consideration of the very injurious orders of November and December last, which had inflicted not only the most serious injury on the shipping and commercial interests of this country but had inflicted a deep stain on the honour and character of the nation. In other times it had been the policy of England to assist the smaller States of Europe against the oppression of the more powerful; and particularly, she had upheld Holland against France; but it must be confessed, that the recent policy of England, with regard to the King of Holland, was of a very opposite character. Not only had England been a party to a proceeding which deprived that monarch of a great portion of his dominion, but it had also seized all the Dutch shipping lying in our harbours, and had detained them for six months, while every day our men of war were capturing Dutch vessels on the high
 1075 1076 l 1077 1078 l l l l s d 1079
 Mr. Baring  said, that the sentiments uttered by the hon. and learned Gentleman were quite novel, and had, he supposed, been specially reserved for the Reformed House of Commons. It was singularly incongruous to hear a law officer of the Crown denounce an attachment to legitimacy, and to hold it up as an excuse for persecution, for so he must designate the treatment which the king of Holland had experienced. By legitimate Governments he supposed the hon. and learned Gentleman meant Austria, Russia, and Prussia, and yet the hon. and learned Gentleman himself invoked those very legitimate Governments as parties to the decision by which this obstinate king of Holland refused to abide. If he might venture to offer advice to one who sold advice to all the world, he would recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman to confine himself in future to questions of law, and not to hazard such extraordinary opinions on policy and morality. Such doctrine would not have been uttered in that House fifteen years ago, when constitutional principles were quite as well understood as at the present moment, without being visited with severe reprehension. He wished to know what great political object was to be obtained by persecuting the poor king of Holland? What, he might be permitted to ask, were the duties of a Foreign Secretary? First, to be the guardian of the honour of the country, and next, without allowing himself to be entangled by protocols, to protect the commerce of the country. The noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) might smile at being thus lectured upon the discharge of the functions of his situation, but he (Mr. Baring) would nevertheless venture to repeat that the noble Lord's two leading duties were the guardianship of the honour and of the commerce of the country. If the noble Lord looked only to the direct injury our commerce had received, he would see but little of the disadvantage. To show
 1085 1086 protegé, 1087
 Mr. Hodgson  complained of the peculiar grievance which the continuance of the embargo inflicted upon his constituents. Before the commencement of the embargo, the quantity of coals exported to Holland from Newcastle-upon-Tyne amounted to between 160,000 and 170,000 tons, and no less than 500 ships were employed in the carriage; but the whole of this trade had been stopped by the embargo. He had letters in his possession, from Dutch merchants to their correspondents in England, stating, that since the embargo was laid on, they had been obliged to resort to Russia for coals. It was to be feared, therefore, that if the restrictions on the trade with Holland were persisted in much longer, this country would be totally deprived of the Dutch trade.
 Mr. Baring  said, that though there was an apparent inconsistency in the assertion, it might still be true, that his Majesty's Government had interfered too much in one place and too little in another. There was no reason, on the face of circumstances, to suppose, that the noble Lord had neglected his duty as to Turkey; but when such important events as every man had anticipated for some time were on the eve of taking place,—when Russia was sending her fleet and her armies to Constantinople,—and when the French were dictating to the Sultan what he ought to do, it was not, even upon the showing of the noble Lord himself, satisfactory to be informed that one of our ambassadors was on the read to Constantinople, and that another was on the read from it. The progress and the probable result of the Egyptian invasion had been known and anticipated for months; and as yet there had been no satisfactory explanation offered why we had no minister to represent us at Constantinople.
 Mr. O'Connell  declared, that he did not understand what was meant by "Volunteers" who received pay. They were, in his opinion, not "Volunteers," but labourers for hire. They were like some conscripts of whom he had read. A traveller seeing a number of them linked together, inquired, "Who are these men thus manacled?" "Oh," said his informant," they are volunteers—going joyfully to serve their country."
 Mr. Walker  declared, that, in his opinion, the yeomanry of Ireland were a party corps, and most active in attempting to put down liberal opinions. They were the chief cause of all the disturbances which took place.
 Mr. O'Connell : Certainly not; never; that is exactly the distinction.
 Mr. Ruthven  declared, that he knew, that those situations of permanent sergeants and drummers were given by persons in authority to their menial servants—to whippers-in, and huntsmen, and stable followers.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that in the town (Belfast) which the noble Lord represented, a Catholic could not be buried without the followers of the corpse being brutally fired at by the yeomanry.
 Mr. Lewis Fenton  declared, that he knew of no intention to raise such a corps. There was not, at present, any corps, either of cavalry or infantry, at Huddersfield. He had commanded a yeomanry corps in that district from 1829 to 1831, which had not cost the Government one farthing. If there were an intention of raising a corps of yeomanry at Huddersfield, he would say, that there was not a place in England where such a corps would be more useful. In the last winter the conduct of some of the operatives was calculated to excite the most unpleasant feelings.
 Lord Belfast  defended the Irish yeomanry, than whom a more respectable body of men did not exist.
 Mr. Lamb  said, it was only necessary to draw the attention of the House to the state in which the country was placed at the latter end of 1830, and the beginning of 1831, to prove that the Government had not acted injudiciously in calling on the better sort of yeomanry and farmers to come forward for the protection of life and property. Those individuals had obeyed this call; and it would be most ungracious conduct on the part of his Majesty's Government now to turn on them and say, "it is true you have put down these disturbances, and the expense was trifling, but hereafter you must serve without Day or allowance." In fact, that which the yeomanry received was not pay; it merely went to cover a variety of expenses incidental to the service.
 Mr. Lamb  had not expected such a question as this to be put to him upon the Army Estimates, with which it was not very naturally connected, and he was not prepared to give it a positive answer. The decision of which the hon. member for Middlesex complained, was not the decision of the Governor of Jersey, but the decision of the Privy Council, to which the matter had been referred. The Governor had only been the medium of communicating it to the local authorities. That decision, he understood, was strictly according to the law of the island.
 Lord George Bentinck  wished to point out an instance of the way in which this embargo operated. There were two ships in the river, one an English, another an American vessel, freighted for Holland. When the Order in Council imposing the embargo was issued, the freight of the English ship was transferred to the American. The American sailed to Rotterdam, gained by her voyage 360 l
 Lord John Russell  must first observe, in reference to what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, that he entirely concurred with him, that it would be a most misplaced comparison to liken the conduct of William 3rd of England, when Prince of Orange to that of the present king of Holland. The same principle that would induce persons to support the present King of Holland, would have induced them to support the title of James 2nd to the Throne of this realm, instead of that of William 3rd. The hon. member for Essex had taunted his Majesty's Ministers with the number of their protocols, and he had been rather severe upon the protracted negotiations, undoubtedly, that had taken place on the subject of Holland and Belgium. But whether the interference of this country in the affairs of Belgium were justifiable or not, at all events the present Government were not to blame for it, that interference having been commenced by their predecessors in office. When his noble friend (Lord Palmerston) took the seals, he did not demand the conference, but found that one had been already agreed to by his noble predecessor, and he went into it, because it was not possible for him to avoid it. The real question which the hon. Gentleman' had left unnoticed, was not, how long they should continue the embargo, but how they should best obtain a safe and honourable peace; and no Gentleman had undertaken to show that a better course could have been pursued to effect that object. The hon. member for Essex had on this, as on other occasions, attempted to throw an air of ridicule over the policy of his noble friend; but the House would recollect the prophecy, which had been confidently promulgated in that House. It had been said, that his noble friend would not be able, by all his negotiations, to preserve the peace of Europe for twelve months, and that if he did, it would be a masterpiece of legislation. The House would also recollect, that an hon. Member recommended as the only means of staving off a terrible war, the dismembering Belgium between France, Prussia, and Holland. The prophet and the  doctrinaire 1089 Just hints a fault, and hesitates dislike. 1090
 Colonel Perceval  said, the hon. Member who spoke last had shown his ignorance of the state of Ireland. What that hon. Member had advanced was calculated to lower the character of the Orangemen of Ireland. He described them as being unfriendly to those who possessed a different creed. He, as an Orangeman, denied that they entertained any such feeling. The Orangemen, on the contrary, held out the hand of friendship to well-disposed persons of every creed.
 Mr. Andren Johnston  said, it would be very satisfactory for him and his constituents to know some good reason for raising such a corps as he had heard was about to be raised in Fife.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he would cause inquiry to be made into the whole subject, especially with respect to the points which had last been noticed, and the evil should be corrected.
 Mr. Ellice  defended the items of the vote, but expressed his willingness to consent to a deduction, on account of the Huddersfield corps, if his hon. friend insisted on it, after the explanation of the hon. Member in the gallery.
 Mr. Ellice  proposed, that there be granted to his Majesty a sum of not less than 110,835 l s d
 Mr. Ellice  said, that with respect to Ireland, there were a number of men permanently employed as sergeants and drummers. If these men were now dismissed, there would be a very considerable expense incurred for allowances and pensions. He wished much to reduce the expense; and, if the hon. member for Middlesex would leave the matter with him, he would use his best endeavours to lighten the burthen.
 Mr. F. O'Connor  asserted, that the yeomanry force of Ireland had contributed to disturb the peace of the country.
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion, that the yeomanry of Ireland were well worthy of every assistance which could be afforded to them.
 Mr. Lyall said, that it was impossible the shipping which was thrown out of employment by the embargo could find employment in any other direction. With re-
 1083
 Mr. Robinson  thought the distinction drawn by the noble Lord was very nice. He thought that the House had a right to call on the Government to explain in what state the negotiation was, or how long it was likely to last. He could not help saying, that he saw no prospect of its speedy termination. Of the Five Powers which had originally taken part in the settlement of the affairs of Holland and Belgium, three, he believed, had seceded, and the whole affair appeared to be left to the arbitration of France and England; and he was of opinion that if the three Northern Powers had been really sincere in their wish to settle the question, Holland would not have been forced to submit. The noble Lord opposite had mooted a most extraordinary doctrine. He had said, that if commerce were shut out in one quarter it would find vent in another. In the course of his parliamentary experience, he (Mr. Robinson) had never heard such a doctrine from the mouth of a Member of the Government before; but he was afraid that it was the doctrine on which the present Government had frequently acted. With regard to the insurance on vessels on which the embargo had been laid, he could say that at least one-third of the subjects of Holland who had suffered were insured at Lloyd's, and that the loss, in case of confiscation, must eventually come on this country; and whatever the opinion of the learned Civilian opposite might be, he could assure him, that this was the opinion of the underwriters themselves, and of the merchants, as they drew a distinction between an embargo laid on during a war and this embargo, which had been laid on in a period of profound peace. He was convinced that the merchants did not petition the House in order to embarrass Government; indeed, he had never known so much forbearance shown to any Government; and he therefore repudiated the idea that they wished to embarrass the noble Lord and the king of the French. He admitted that it would, perhaps, be embarrassing to the Government, if the embargo were taken off at the present stage of the negotiation; but he thought it would have been much better if it had
 1101
 Mr. Robinson  said, the assertion made by the noble Lord, that those Motions were got up for the purpose of forwarding the views of the king of the Nether-lauds, was most unfounded.
 Mr. George F. Young  seconded the Motion, and expressed his entire concurrence in the commercial view which the hon. and worthy Alderman took on the subject; although he must in candour add, that he did not agree with the hon. and worthy Alderman in his political opinions respecting it. He was quite satisfied that the political situation of his Majesty's Ministers, with reference to Holland, had been one of great difficulty; and that they had had no alternative but to compel the king of Holland to accede to the terms proposed to him. But, concurring in the political views of his Majesty's Ministers, he differed from them as to the expediency of the means which they adopted to carry them into effect, especially in laying an embargo, which was much more injurious to English than to Dutch commerce. He did not think, that laying on embargoes, and thereby injuring private individuals, was, under any circumstances, the way in which a dispute between great nations ought to be carried on. He could corroborate what had been stated by the hon. and worthy Alderman, that Dutch commerce had not been considerably impeded by the British Order in Council, for it had been carried on in neutral vessels; and in order to encourage its being still carried on in Dutch vessels, the government of Holland had remitted ten per cent of duty on neutral vessels, Dutch built, and conferred on them the privileges, in Dutch ports, of Dutch ships. In addition to what had been stated by the hon. and worthy Alderman, he had been informed, that an offer had been made by the Government of the Hague to allow eight English vessels to come to Haerlem for butter and cheese, provided eight Dutch vessels were allowed to go to Liverpool for salt, but that the offer had been refused by our Government.
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask a question of Lord Palmerston relative to the affairs of the East, which were, in his opinion, quite as important, if not more important, than the affairs of the West, which they had just been discussing. He conceived that it was doubtful whether the policy which Great Britain bad pursued with regard to Turkey bad not been detrimental to her real interests. There was in it an apparent want of judgment, and a real mismanagement, for which it was difficult, if not impossible, to account. If there was anything more than another against which the House should be anxious to guard, it was against the occurrence of war in Europe and against the giving to Russia that preponderance in the East which she had now obtained by the mismanagement of the British Government. He called the attention of the House to this subject, because year after year, cm his objecting to the large establishments which we had been keeping up in the Mediterranean, he had been told, that it was owing to the necessity under which we laboured of maintaining a large force in that quarter to guard our interests. The question on which be now sought to obtain public information was this—why at the hour of need, when a British force might have been of use, had the capital of Turkey been left a prey to the Russians why had there been even no ambassador of England there? And why had there been no fleet in the Dardanelles, to give efficacy to the remonstrances which he might have had occasion to make? Whilst we were publicly avowing that we concurred with France in her desire to maintain peace, it was strange that we should leave the Ministers of France to resist by themselves the importunities of the Russian embassy to obtain for their master military possession of Constantinople. That was an effect for which the noble Lord must be answerable, if, from his want of attention, it should turn out that that support which was necessary to give effect to the remonstrances of the French embassy at Constantinople had not been afforded in an emergency which, if it bad occurred a few years ago, must have involved Europe in war. The emergency to which he alluded was the appearance of a Russian fleet, and
 1102 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that as this vote related to the staff, he would avail himself of the opportunity to put a question with respect to the staff in the Island of Jersey. The governor of that island was a general staff-officer. A dispute, which was likely to lead to some unpleasant disturbance, had lately taken place between that officer and the Parliament of Jersey, in consequence of his interference with its proceedings. It appeared that the local Parliament of that island, as well as the general Parliament of the Empire, had lately undergone a salutary reform. The Members had, in consequence, determined to admit the public in future to witness and to report their proceedings. To this determination the Governor had, as he was informed, opposed
 1105
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to find, that reform here had prevented reform from being established triumphantly in the Island of Jersey. The disturbances between the local and the imperial government would lead to the increase of our military establishments in Jersey, as similar events had led to the increase of them in other colonial dependencies of the Crown. He hoped that, on another occasion, the right hon. Secretary would lay before the House the reasons why the Government would not accede to the very salutary Amendment proposed in the meetings of the assembly of Jersey.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would oppose the Resolution. He appealed to the country gentlemen of England, and he would ask them, whether they could not call out the active and steady loyalty of the country, if they were menaced by insubordination, without resorting to this paltry payment of 4 l l 1106
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, whether
 1107
 Mr. Hume  did not say, that he would go so far as to put down the yeomanry force, but wished to withhold the public money from them.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, it appeared to him that an attempt was set on foot to get up a system similar in Scotland and England to that which prevailed in Ireland, where one class of men was opposed to another class. It was just like the system of Orangemen of Ireland, who were opposed to, and oppressing a different class of people.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that no one could, with correctness, ascertain what was the effect produced by the embargo on the trade of Holland. No one could deny, that the effect of it was not the same in Holland as in this country. He wished that reasons had been assigned why it should be different. If the trade of this country was plunged into difficulties by the embargo, the trade of the other country must he necessarily plunged into similar difficulties, from which it would not he easy to extricate it. He really did not well conceive the strength of the argument of the right hon. Baronet who had so lately
 1095 1096 1097
 Sir Edmund Hayes  said, that he thought his Majesty's present Ministers had themselves given the most ample refutation to the unfounded and unwarrantable assertions made respecting the yeomanry, by the member for Dublin, and echoed by the member for Middlesex. He could appeal to the late right hon. Secretary on that subject; it being well known that he, in conjunction with the noble Lord at the head of the Irish Government, in a moment of panic and apprehension, excited by the agitation of the repeal question, put arms into the hands of those very men who are now reviled, thereby proving that they knew their value; and acknowledged, though reluctantly, that in time of danger, they were the men to be really depended
 1108
 Mr. Pollock  rose to complain that the hon. and learned Civilian had taken the opportunity which the present discussion afforded to allude to a discussion which had happened on a former occasion, and to make general remarks on the hon. Member below him (Mr. Baring). He (Mr. Pollock) thought his hon. and learned friend would have done better not to have made such personal remarks at a time when the hon. member for Essex had spoken, and when he therefore could have no opportunity of vindicating himself. With regard to the embargo, which was the main question before them, he would ask, had embargoes not always been used, not as instruments of peace, but as instruments of war? Was it then to be borne, that the embargo in this case should be used solely
 1098
 The Solicitor General  rose to explain. He wished to distinguish between that legitimacy which it was proper to uphold.
 1088
 The Solicitor General  begged to say a few words as to the established doctrine in Westminster Hall relative to insurances. Under the circumstances stated in this discussion, there could not be the slightest doubt. If the policy was entered into before the embargo there was a clear implied exception of British capture or detention. This was decided very long ago in the ease of "Long v. Hubbard," and bad been recognised over since. It was impossible for any contract to defeat the policy of the British Government. For a policy entered into before the embargo, no English underwriter could be made liable; and whatever before or after, no burthen could be imposed upon an English subject. In reply to what the hon. Member who spoke last had said respecting the sympathy which he felt for Holland, he must be allowed to observe, that when Holland attracted the sympathy of this country in former times her conduct was very different from that which she was at present pursuing. She was then at the
 1084
 Mr. Jervis  said, the Volunteers of Ireland had been very useful. They had come forward in times of great alarm, and well deserved any trifling remuneration that was given to them.
 Mr. Jervis : Did the hon. and learned Member never "volunteer" his services for pay?
 Sir Robert Inglis wised to know whether the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) intended to say, that the king of the Netherlands was obstinately protracting the pending negotiations with a view to the recovery of his dominion over the Belgian provinces "If the noble Lord intended to make any such statement, he must express his entire dissent with regard to it. He contended that the king of the Netherlands had, from the very beginning of the negotiations, as well as in his speech to the States-General, recognized the separation of the two countries. In fact, there had never existed on the part of that monarch a desire to withhold a recognition of the indepenence of Belgium. He would not enter into the commercial part of the question; all he wished to know from the noble Lord, or some other member of the Government, was, whether it was intended to charge the king of the Netherlands with protracting the pending negotiations from a desire to regain the possession of the Belgian provinces?
 Sir Robert Peel  could not but admire the skill with which the noble Lord who had just addressed the House had avoided all allusion to the main question before it—namely, whether the embargo were illegal in principle and efficient in practice. The noble Lord's statements might be all correct, and those of his hon. friend Mr. Baring, all wrong; but the argument whether the embargo was an efficient instrument or otherwise, and whether its being discharged against Holland did not recoil upon and seriously injure those who devised and employed it, was wholly untouched by it. He must say, however, that he had heard the concluding part of the noble Lord's speech with pleasure—namely, that part of it in which he expressed a hope that peace would be preserved by six months embargo. If that were to be the case, then peace must be nearly established, for, if he were not mistaken, the embargo was laid on on the 7th of November, and that was the 10th of May. He was glad to hear the hopes expressed by the noble Lord, but that pleasure was in some degree abated by the statement of the Solicitor General, that Holland had rejected the sound advice of England und France, and fled for refuge and support to Courts the supporters of legitimacy. Such certainly was the expression of the hon. and learned Member. The learned Gentleman, it was true, had afterwards explained what he meant by legitimacy, as if he had been called upon as a writer of a Dictionary. He knew not why the hon. Gentleman had done this. If the learned Gentleman's explanation meant any thing it was, that all popular Governments must necessarily be opposed
 1091 1092 a fortiori 1093 Just hints a fault and hesitates dislike. Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike. 1094 telum imbelle, sine ictu —"Even-handed Justice Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice To our own lips."
 Lord Althorp  said, that, being called upon by the hon. Baronet, he would answer his question, although he had no previous intention of taking part in the debate. It was true that the king of the Netherlands had agreed to acknowledge the sovereignty of Belgium; but he had done so on such conditions only as rendered it impossible that the independence of Belgium could be maintained. Such an acknowledgement was not likely to effect what they had had always in view in the course of those negotiations, namely, the maintenance of peace.
 1099
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that as it was not his intention to object to the Motion of the hon. Alderman, he should not go so minutely into the details of the subject as he might otherwise be induced to do. He was quite willing to admit, that all restrictions on commerce were inconvenient. But if it were asserted as sound argument that, whatever political necessity might require, commerce ought not to be subjected to any inconvenience, that argument would be operative not only against embargo, but against war, and if, in deference to that
 1080 1081 l 1082 "Hear!"
 Viscount Palmerston  explained. He had merely said, that he knew that those Motions were looked forward to in Holland as likely to relieve the trade of that country from the embargo which he believed pressed more heavily on Holland than on England.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he had no objection to grant the return for which the hon. member for Middlesex had moved. He would tell the hon. Member, however, without waiting for the paper, that Sir Robert Gordon, who was ambassador to the Porte at the period first mentioned by the hon. Member, had returned home early in last year; that Sir Stratford Canning, who was to have succeeded him, had been sent on an important mission, which it was for the interest of Great Britain to have arranged as speedily as possible; and that Lord Ponsonby, who had succeeded him, had been sent out to Constantinople, was now there, and would have been there sooner had it not been for some difficulty which had arisen as to the means of transport. There had been how ever, during all that period at Constantinople a secretary of embassy, who bad acted with great judgment und discretion, and
 1103
 Viscount Palmerston : Lord Ponsonby was kept at Naples for a month, because the frigate which was to convey him from Naples to Constantinople was wind-bound for that time, and not able to reach the bay of Naples.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, in rising to avail himself of the indulgence of the House as expressed at the conclusion of the debate on a former night, he trusted, in the line which he meant to take, he should not prove himself unworthy of their indulgence, for at the same time that he should freely and boldly state his objections, he hoped to satisfy the House that he did not make objections merely for the sake of objecting, as he was prepared at the same time to offer such suggestions as to his mind appeared calculated to counteract the mischievous and dangerous principles which were involved in some at least of the provisions of the Bill. He should have to refer to details which might at first appear to some hon. Members better suited to a future stage of the Bill, but he preferred referring to them at the present moment, in order that the Committee might be the better prepared to consider his suggestions when the particular clauses to which they had reference should be brought before them, and to give to them any weight to which they might be entitled. On behalf of the Church in Ireland he desired nothing but that her cause should be fairly heard. He desired nothing but that the House should legislate for her upon principles of justice—upon the ordinary and avowed principles of legislation—upon such principles, in fact, as the House would legislate on for the Church in England. He was aware, on entering upon the subject, that he had to contend
 1114 * * 1115 l. l l. l. l. 1116 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1117 1118 l. 1119 1120 1121 No, no," from Mr. Stanley 1122 1123 1124 toties quoties 1125 1126 1127 1128 l. l. 1129 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1130 l. l. 1131
 An Hon. Member  was understood to say, that the measure had his general support, but that he objected to part of it, because that part of it was inconsistent with the main principles of the Bill. The part he objected to was that which sanctioned an alienation of Church property; for, notwithstanding the denial of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, there was in the measure a sanction given to the alienation of Church property. Whilst he admitted the power of that House with respect to Church property, he thought that it should be especially applied to Church purposes. One of the purposes to which it ought to be applied, and for which it was originally destined, was education; and few countries more than Ireland required that education should be
 1140
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was not quite so sure of the ignorance of the people of Ireland. Whether ignorance did or did not prevail there, it was certain that it did to a very large extent elsewhere, and he seldom saw so many proofs of it as he did when he heard hon. Members talk about Ireland. He denied that the crimes of a country were in proportion to the ignorance of its population, and he was supported in his opinion by the authority of a late number of "The Edinburgh Review." He had seen it stated in a statistical calculation published in that journal, that there were more poor children enjoying the blessing of education in Ireland, than in that country so vaunted, and so favoured as to education—Scotland. Besides, if the statistical accounts of crimes in the French departments, drawn up by the desire of the Government of that country, were consulted, the hon. Member who had last spoken would find that the progress of crime did not tally with the ignorance of the departments; for that the proportion of crime to the inhabitants was greater in those departments which were considered the most enlightened. With respect to the present measure, as he had said on a former occasion, it had his approbation; and he would now state why he approved of it no longer, lest he should be accused of inconsistency and of changing his sentiments without a sufficient reason. The fact was, that the noble Lord opposite had practised a delusion on him when he said that the Vestry-cess was to be entirely abolished. The noble Lord might have done so unwittingly, but the noble Lord must still be aware that he (Mr. O'Connell) spoke sincerely when he mentioned that he laboured under a delusion upon this point. The amount of the cess was stated to be between 60,000 l. l. l. l. 1141 l. l. 
 
 £. s d 
 To Bread and wine for Communion 15 0 0 
 Parish clerk 58 0 0 
 Sexton 32 18 4 
 Ditto ringing for Morning Service 9 5 0 
 Organist 53 0 0 
 Organ-blower 9 5 0 
 Organ-tuner 9 5 0 
 Ground-rent of church 15 0 0 
 Insurance on church 15 0 0 l. 
 
 £. s d 
 Reverend George Blacker (another) 150 0 0 
 Vestry clerk, one year's salary 23 0 0 
 Assistance to sexton 23 0 0 
 Beadle 24 0 0 
 Gate-keeper 32 0 0 
 Vestry maid 19 0 0 
 Engine keeper's salary 19 0 0 
 Paying engines attending fires in the parish 17 0 0 
 Providing for deserted children 17 0 0 
 Donations to the poor 21 0 0 
 Taking care of churchyard 6 0 0 
 —— 45 0 0 1142 
 
 £ s d 
 Taking care of church 5 5 0 
 Organist 65 0 0 
 Organ bellows-blower 6 16 0 
 Organ-tuner 6 16 0 
 Beadle 42 0 0 
 Vestry clerk 80 0 0
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that the adoption of the measure would be tantamount to a declaration that it was no longer the wish of Parliament to encourage and maintain the Protestant religion in Ireland. He must, in the first place, say, that he most positively objected to the principle of interfering with existing interests, and laying a tax upon individuals now possessed of benefices, for the relief of the landlords in Ireland. At present every proprietor in Ireland was subject to certain charges; but by transferring those charges to the Protestant clergy, every landlord would be enabled to raise his rents. At what a time, too, was this done? It was only last year that his Majesty's Ministers gave a deplorable, but correct, account of the extreme distress of the Protestant clergy in Ireland, and induced the House to grant them relief. He did not understand that tithes were better paid now, than they were then, and yet there was now no proposal for relief, but a proposal to tax their future incomes, although for the last two years and a half hardly any thing had been paid to them. It had been stated, that this Bill was to be accompanied by an enactment to ensure the better payment of tithes; but that ought already to have been brought forward. Let him ask, whether they did not interfere with existing interests in an unfair way? Did they not act with the greatest injustice to all who held the advowsons of livings as private property? Perhaps for the sake of the Church they might be allowed to deal with ecclesiastical livings; but on what pretence could the Legislature interfere with the property in advowsons—a property much older than the Reformation, and allowed by the law of England to be bought and sold from the earliest periods? Was it fair to individuals who, under the sanction of the law, had paid large sums either for the next presentation to, or the perpetual advowsons of livings that the House should impose a tax of 15 l. 1156 l. 1157
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  explained: He had so understood the hon. and learned Gentleman; but it was the farthest from his wish to misrepresent what had been said by him. With regard to the Primate, he had since ascertained that what he (Mr. Stanley) had said was a misstatement, though not to any very great extent, as he had stated he had frequent discussions with the Primate on the provisions of the Bill, and the impression on his mind was, that the Primate had suggested that the least objectionable means of obtaining Reform was to reduce the number of Bishops. The
 1159
 Mr. Strickland  said, he had considerable objections to this Bill. It was unwise and unjust, and he would never consent that it should become the law of England. If this Bill passed into a law, a poor man never could obtain his right. The law ought to be open to all; it was the right of the subject; but if this Bill were passed into a law, it would com-
 1161 hear
 Mr. Petre  supported the Bill, though he objected to some of its details. He particularly wished the fund to be applied to ecclesiastical purposes. It was with no small astonishment, however, that he had noticed the course pursued by the hon. and learned member for Dublin—he, too, who was so critical upon the conduct of others. He formerly supported the measure, and yet, on the present occasion, he had departed from his formerly declared opinions, and joined the opposition to the Bill. The hon. and learned Member had better have let that alone. He considered the Bill would be the means of allaying many of those religious animosities which prevailed in Ireland, and for that reason he gave it his support.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that though a Church Reformer, and anxious for the removal of abuses, he could not assent to this Bill. He regretted much the doctrines which were daily advanced in favour of the separation of Church and State; but as far as the people of Scotland were concerned, he denied that any
 1158
 Mr. French  trusted he should receive from the House that indulgence they had uniformly extended to Members addressing them the first time. He assured them he had not risen with the intention of embarrassing his Majesty's Ministers, or of offering any vexatious opposition to the satisfactory arrangement of the great, the difficult question now under their consideration; on the contrary, the leading provisions of the Bill he was willing to agree to; and though objecting to some of the minor details, he must acknowledge, in substance and principle, the measure to be, with one exception, manly, comprehensive, and wise. A diminution in the incomes of Bishops, as recommended by the hon. member for the University of Dublin, an augmentation of the smaller livings, a percentage on the Church income—all these he was inclined to support. The abolition of the Church-rate and vestry cess would, he trusted, be viewed as a boon by the peasantry of Ireland, and that their gratitude for it would be manifested ill the most honourable of all ways, by their returning to the pursuits of industry, and habits of subordination. He objected to, and would confine his observations to one feature only of this important measure—the proposed change in the tenure of the Church lands, which, after rendering the renewal fine, at present voluntary, the payment of which hitherto had been deemed sufficient to secure the perpetuity—after compelling the tenant to surrender the interest which the accumulation of that fine would amount to in twenty-one years, demanded so many years' purchase of the beneficial interest—he felt it his
 1132 l. l. 1133 " 1134 l. l l. l. 1135 1136 l. l. l. l. l. 1137 1138 1139 l.
 Mr. Shaw  wished to explain a misapprehension of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies on the last night this subject was discussed. He was represented by that right hon. Gentleman as having stated, that if this Bill had been brought forward by his friends on that side of the House, he would have supported it; but having been brought forward by the other side, he should oppose it. The right hon. Gentleman was wholly mistaken. With regard to another statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that the Primate of Ireland had suggested the reduction of the number of Bishoprics, he begged, on the part of the Prelate, to deny, that such was the case, and he thought it would be prudent of the right hon. Secretary to be a little more cautious, for these assertions frequently found their way to places where the subsequent contradiction never reached.
 Mr. Granville Harcourt Vernon  said, no man was less disposed than he was to decry public opinion. The laugh was directed rather against the monstrous opinion of the member for Middlesex than against public opinion. He supported this Bill under many painful impressions arising from his connexion with an individual dignitary of the Church, from his official situation, and from other considerations. He supported this Bill, because he was satisfied that it would render the Established Church of Ireland more stable, more effective, and more respected. As the state of the Church in Ireland did not seem to suit with public opinion in that country, the natural conclusion was, that there must be something in it which required revision and correction. The member for Middlesex seemed to him to aim at nothing less than the total destruction of that Church. This sentiment was natural enough in a North Britain; but he confessed, that he entertained strong predilections in favour of that Church and its hierarchy. He considered the institution of Church dignitaries as of the greatest benefit to society; and on general principles he contended that the current of morality must descend from the higher classes to the lower. The advantage of prelacy was this, that by such an institution they had a class of men who by their education and
 1154 1155
 Mr. Henry Baring  objected to the Amendments of the Committee. The evidence of Mr. M'Adam, Mr. Rennie, and Mr. Mills, went to disprove the necessity for the road, and the propriety of the proposed line. He moved, as an Amendment, that the Report be read that day six months.
 Mr. Goulburn  was not opposed to the adoption of useful and necessary reforms in the Church Establishment; on the contrary, as one who venerated that Establishment, he desired to see it rendered as complete as possible; but he must resist the present Bill, which was calculated to retard the growth of the Protestant faith in Ireland, but did nothing towards the actual reform of abuses, or the promotion of the efficiency of the Church as an instrument for the extension of true religion. There was nothing in the Bill to enforce the residence of the clergy—no provision for the separation of large unions of parishes—in short, the measure did not tend to render the Church more efficient. Its grand feature was, that it abolished ten bishoprics, of which he would speak presently. He did not object to the removal of the Vestry-cess from the population at large, but he thought that, in professing to remove a grievance, the noble Lord left behind abundant grounds for dissatisfaction and agitation. There were two cesses raised in every parish in Ireland—the one by an exclusively Protestant vestry, the other by a mixed vestry of Protestants and Catholics. The objects of the first-named cess were limited by Act of Parliament to repairs of the Church and the performance of worship therein, but the general vestry had to deal with subjects no less inflammatory. Curates' salaries had been provided for in general vestries, but it was otherwise enacted by the present Bill. However, abundant subjects of dispute and irritation remained. The expenses of organists, singing, and all matters connected with the churchyard, were provided for in general vestries. Here was matter for agitation which the Bill had not removed. The Bill imposed an oppressive and iniquitous tax on one class of the community without attaining its avowed object. He did not wish the noble Lord to impose another tax on the clergy for the accomplishment of the objects at which he had glanced, but he said that when the noble Lord was getting rid of the Vestry-cess, he would have done better to have got rid of it altogether; and unless that were done, they would render the life of the Protestant clergy hardly safe. But
 1146 1147 1148
 Mr. Benett  supported the reading of the Report and Amendments, and the propriety of passing the Bill, upon the grounds of its being virtually intended to improve the road between Bath and Frome.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, the only real opponent to the Bill was Mr. Vivian; the others put forward were mere men of straw. There was, however, in the case of the Committee upon this Bill, a great public question, to which it was fit that the House should direct its attention, and as early as possible apply a remedy. It was a great public matter, although connected with a private Bill. The Committee was asked by the counsel for Mr. Vivian to adjourn the Committee. He was answered that Mr. Vivian had had twelve months to oppose the Bill, and the counsel then said; "Well, Gentlemen, I will tell you candidly what I mean to do. I will examine witnesses who will give you no information; but who will take up your time till the week I want is completed. I will have the week some way or other." He succeeded in his object. Such a power, lodged in the hands of counsel, was incompatible with the due discharge of the duties of Committees of the House, and ought to be put an end to. The proper remedy, in his opinion was, that Committees should be empowered to give costs. The road
 1113
 Mr. Hume  said, that he should have been extremely glad to have heard the speech just made by the right hon. Gentleman delivered by him when he sat on the other side of the House, and he should have been equally glad to have heard the right hon. Gentleman suggest those Reforms which he now suggested, and ad-
 1149 Mr. Goulburn; No, no 1150 No, no 1151 1152 1153
 Mr. Estcourt  was convinced that danger would arise to extensive canal property by the proposed line of road. He understood the proposition to be to postpone the reading of the Report and Amendments to that day six months; but he would waive his support to that Motion, if certain clauses in the Bill, which he chiefly objected to, were given up. The proposed road was a wild and extravagant speculation.
 Sir Robert Bateson  was not opposed to a real practical Reform of the Church—less so, perhaps, than those who proposed a delusion under the name of Reform. He was quite ready to support any proposition which should have for its object the prevention of pluralities, the equalization—not the destruction of bishoprics—and the putting an end to the practice of translation. The present proposition must lead to the destruction of the Protestant Church in Ireland. He objected to the lay Commissioners in the Board, and thought the Board ought to be wholly episcopal. As to doing away the Church cess, he should be happy to concur in any measure by which the objections to the existing system might be removed. He objected to laying a tax on so low a rate of clerical incomes as 200 l.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had contended, that the Vestry-cess in Ireland would not be abolished by the Bill introduced by the Government. He (Lord A.) could
 1143 1144 1145
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he should not have trespassed upon the attention of the House at all, had he not felt himself called upon to state to the House what the feeling of the Protestants of Ireland would be, if the measure then before the House should pass into a law. On the last night he attempted to address the House, he was scouted because he alluded to the question of repeal, but he would now repeat, that the conduct of the Government, if persisted in, would drive the Protestants of Ireland into the advocacy of that measure. When the Government, whose manifest duty it was to cement, promote, and consummate that union, were dissevering the only tie by which it could exist—namely the Established Church—was it to be wondered at that the Protestants of Ireland felt disgusted with their conduct? But he would tell his Majesty's Ministry, that in the plan they proposed, the principle of interfering with private property was so manifest, that they might rest assured the moment the
 1160
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose, and spoke nearly as follows:—Sir, I am confident when I state to the House, that if ever a Minister of the Crown, in bringing forward any measure on behalf of the Government to which he belonged—more especially affecting a question of such vital import as this—one which touches so directly and immediately the interests of many, and, I may say, commands the attention of all—I say, Sir, if ever a member of this House, or Minister of the Crown, had a fair claim on the kindness and indulgence of those about him, that claim I can now honestly make, assured that what I ask will not be refused; and the more confident I am in advancing it, from the circumstance which is well known to all, of the very short period which has elapsed since I have been called upon to act as the organ of Government in this situation, and from my having, during that brief and limited period, to discharge the duties of an office, one of the many of which is connected with this question of unparalleled importance—involving a greater amount of property—affecting the happiness and the well-being of a larger portion of individuals, than was ever before brought forward, and which to mature and bring successfully to a conclusion, is now ren-
 1194 l 1195 1196 * * 1197 1198 1199 * 1200 arcanum penetralia 1201 * * 1202 1203 —cælumque tueri Jussit, et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus." 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 1220 1221 * * 1222 * * † Ibid. p. 281. 1223 1224 1225 1226 l l l l l l l l l 1227 l 1228 1229 1230 
 1.—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that immediate and effectual measures be taken for the entire abolition of slavery throughout the colonies, under such provisions for regulating the condition of the negroes, as may combine their welfare with the interests of the proprietors. 2.—" That it is expedient that all children born after the passing of any Act, or who shall be under the age of six years at the time of passing any Act of Parliament for this purpose, be declared free; subject, nevertheless, to such temporary restrictions as may be deemed necessary for their support and maintenance. 3.—"That all persons now slaves, be entitled to be registered as apprenticed labourers, and to acquire thereby all rights and privileges of freedom; subject to the restriction of labouring, under conditions, and for a time to be fixed by Parliament, for their present owners. 4.—"That to provide against the risk of loss which proprietors in his Majesty's colonial possessions might sustain by the abolition of slavery, his Majesty be enabled to advance, by way of loan, to be raised from time to time, a sum not exceeding in the whole 15,000,000 l 5.—" That his Majesty be enabled to defray any such expense as he may incur in establishing an efficient stipendiary Magistracy in the colonies, and in aiding
 1231
 Mr. Stanley  replied, that they certainly would be so. The power of punishment, however, would be taken from individual planters, and placed in the hands of the Magistrates. In fact, there would be no difference between the labourer who entered into a contract in the West-India colonies, and a labourer who entered into a similar contract in this country.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that the Resolution to which he had referred would not in any way affect the interests of the merchants concerned in the trade to the West Indies. His object was, to give that body a full opportunity of disposing of their shipments, and he was sure that no resolution or clause would be adopted which would interfere with their interests. As to the discussion, he was prepared to enter upon it immediately, but he thought it fairer to allow all the parties interested in the issue of it, full time for inquiry and deliberation.
 Mr. Godson  said, that although there were but a very few Members in the House who were connected with the colonies, they were willing to go on at once with the debate, and on their part he would say that delay or postponement could only have for its object the promulgation of such statements as had been made in the brilliant speech of the right hon. Secretary—statements which, though unfounded, would be thus circulated without an answer.
 Mr. Godson  said, on the part of the West India planters, that they had no objection to an immediate hearing. They had no desire whatever for a postponement. Some of the merchants of Loudon were, however, in a different situation. They had orders to execute for shipment of several millions' worth of British goods to the West Indies: but one of those Resolutions went to regulate the supply of certain articles which were to be used by negroes; and, until that clause was disposed of, the merchants could not, with safety, send out the usual shipments.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  did not think it fair that the speech of the right hon. Secretary should go forth to the world unanswered. It was true the noble Lord near him had replied to several points in that speech, but that which he thought a most important point still remained unexplained. If the negro were to be called upon to pay for his own liberation, he, for one, must oppose such a proposition. He, therefore, wished to know whether the negro was to pay for his own emancipation, or whether the 15,000,000 l
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, the great inconvenience of delay was, that the; statements of the right hon. Secretary would go forth uncontradicted, although he (Sir Richard Vyvyan) could easily give a satisfactory refutation to many of them, particularly to those misrepresentations respecting the Island of Jamaica.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not rise for the purpose of prolonging, or of even entering upon the discussion, as he thought it would be most inconvenient to do so at that stage of the debate and at so late an hour of the night; but he rose merely for the purpose of suggesting the necessity of coming to some understanding as to some practical course to be adopted with regard to the discussion of these Resolutions. Whilst he admitted the necessity of coming to an early decision on this important subject, he must at the same time deprecate a premature or hasty one. It was absolutely necessary that some further time should be given for the consideration of these Resolutions. The right hon. Gentleman had not confined himself to vague suggestions, but had actually suggested a specific plan for altering the condition of slaves; but that plan was so complicated, that it would be impossible to discuss its principle without going into its details. One thing he hoped, and it was this, that the House would not adopt even one of the Resolutions, without allow-
 1260
 Sir Robert Peel  asked whether it was intended that the negroes should be subject to corporal punishment if they violated the contracts into which they entered with their masters?
 Sir Robert Peel  did not offer his suggestion to the House with any other view than that of allowing time for deliberation. The House would recollect that some of those Gentlemen who were interested for the planters had an opportunity of speaking and they had as much right to complain of delay as the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Sir Robert Peel  had only spoken for himself. And whatever opinions the hon. and learned Gentleman might entertain as to the effects of his suggestions, he must be allowed to say, that he had no other object and could have no other object,
 1262
 Lord Althorp  would remind the House that his right hon. friend had, in opening the debate, stated his readiness to agree to the postponement of the debate, if it were the wish of the House, or of any hon. Member who wished to take a part in the discussion. It was reasonable, not only on account of Members but on account of the public, who took a deep interest in this subject, that a postponement should be required and he was therefore willing to accede. Perhaps the best way would be to report the Resolutions,  pro forma;
 Lord Althorp  thought his right hon. friend had been sufficiently explicit when
 1261
 Viscount Howick  spoke as follows * * 1232 1233 s s d s d d 1234 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241 Hon. member 1242 1243 1244 1245 s d 1246 1247 1248 1249 1250 * * 1251 * * 1252 * * 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the knowledge of which he was possessed on the subject came from the evidence laid before both Houses of Parliament. The question in dispute seemed to be whether a West-Indian slave master could inflict thirty-nine lashes on a negro for a certain offence, and the evidence of a West-India proprietor, and of other men, stated clearly that he could. An overseer could not only administer thirty-nine lashes for looking him in the face, he could do so without assigning any reason. That he could inflict corporal punishment either with or without assigning any reason had been proved upon authority which did not admit of a doubt. The fact was so revolting to every feeling of humanity, that the House would not be imbued with a particle of sympathy if a law were not immediately passed to render it impossible for one human being to strike another with impunity.
 Mr. John Martin (of Sligo)  presented a Petition from Sligo, complaining of certain abuses which existed in the Corporation.
 Mr. John Martin  stated, in reply, that neither himself nor any person who signed the petition, intended to cast a reflection upon the character of Mr. Wynne. But did the hon. Member mean to say, that the borough had not been appropriated to his private purposes?
 Mr. Hill  presented a Petition from the Baron de Bode, praying for an inquiry into his claim on the funds received by the British Government, under the convention, for the paying off British claimants. In support of the petition the hon. Member urged at considerable length the claims of the petitioner, on the ground that he was a British-born subject, and that the only defect of his claim was a mere technical one of non-registration. He moved that it be referred to a Committee to examine and report upon the claims of the petitioner.
 The Attorney General  opposed the Motion on the ground that the case had been already sufficiently heard and justly decided upon. The hon. and learned Gentleman was proceeding to address some further observations to the House on this subject, when he was interrupted by
 Mr. John Martin : Selling it. In fact, so little did some of the Representatives of that borough know of the place they represented, that one of them represented it in the House as "a little fishing villa in the south of Ireland." The hon. Member was proceeding to put another question to the hon. Member (Colonel Perceval) when
 Mr. Petre  said, that the statements which had gone forth were not in any degree exaggerated. The House and the country had heard repeatedly of worse instances than any which were last night mentioned by the right hon. Secretary, who had, indeed, shown great forbearance in not alluding to individual cases.
 Colonel Perceval  asked, what private advantages was meant by the hon. Member?
 Colonel Perceval  said, he trusted that he should be excused if he trespassed on the time of the House, while he showed that the petition which complained of the Sligo Corporation contained gross and calumnious falsehoods, as applied to a most estimable person; he meant his very respected friend, Mr. Wynne, who is a proprietor of certain tolls in the town, who is a constant resident in the country, and whose example he heartily wished other proprietors would follow. The petition stated that this respectable gentleman had appropriated a part
 1267 1268
 Colonel Leith Hay  was enabled to corroborate the assertions of the hon. Baronet by his own personal observation. The statements of the right hon. Secretary, he did not hesitate to say, were greatly exaggerated. The allegations were made upon evidence which the right hon. Gentleman believed to be true, but that evidence was of a most exaggerated description. He thought an  ex parte
 Mr. Harvey  said, that this meeting, for the purpose of presenting the petitions of the people, was worth nothing if a responsible Minister was not present to hear the complaints of the country. He very much regretted the absence of every Minister on the present occasion. It was disgraceful to any Ministry that the petitions should thus, day after day, be ludicrously consigned to the bag. He very much approved of conversational debates of this description.
 1266
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. That was not the proper period to answer a debate which took place on a former occasion.
 The Speaker  was of opinion, that the hon. Baronet was not strictly out of order. It was for him to consider how far the course he was pursuing promoted the convenience of the House.
 Sir John Tyrell,  who said, that as the question was likely to lead to some debate, he thought it ought to be discussed in a fuller House. He moved that the House be counted.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  took the opportunity, upon the presentation of some Petitions against negro slavery, of giving a positive contradiction to some of the statements made by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, in the course of his speech to the House last night. That right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the recommendations of Government had been totally disregarded by the slave-owners in the West Indies, and the colonial legislatures, and applied the observation more particularly to the island of Jamaica. This statement was incorrect, for the legislature there had passed an Act in the year 1832, whereby the evidence of the slave was not only admitted against his master, but also against the overseer. Another of the allegations made by the right hon. Gentleman was, that the evidence of the slave could only be received clogged with the recommendation of his master. But this allegation had reference to one part of the colonies only, the island of Antigua. It was also most erroneously stated that a slave could receive thirty-nine lashes for only looking his master in the face.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  was merely anxious to negative allegations which had been brought against a most respectable body of men by the Secretary and Under-Secretary for the Colonies, and which ought not to be suffered to go forth to the public without a contradiction on the earliest opportunity. The right hon. Secretary was misinformed with regard to the corporal punishment of the negroes. He knew many instances in which a much heavier punishment than the infliction of thirty-nine stripes had been visited upon those who had inflicted a very small corporal punishment upon an offending slave. Instances had occurred in the colonies of 100 l
 Sir Robert Bateson  rose to order. Such interrogatories were irregular; they ought at least to be put through the Chair.
 Lord Morpeth  was not prepared to answer the observations of the hon. Baronet, but he was well satisfied that his right hon. friend would have no difficulty on the subject; if he were present. The allegation made by his right hon. friend with respect to the power of a master to inflict thirty-nine stripes on his slave, was, in fact, the statement of a West-India proprietor.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, there could be no doubt the notice for holding the meeting was foolish in the extreme; but, at the same time, he knew of no law in this country prohibiting meetings for establishing a National Convention. In 1792, the Roman Catholics of Ireland held meetings for this purpose, and, what was more, a deputation from that Convention presented an Address to the King upon the Throne, so that at that period at least such a Convention was not illegal. Now, however, such a thing would be illegal in Ireland, because a prohibitory statute had been passed upon the subject; and he threw out this explanation in order that the statement of the Under Secretary might not in its turn affect the investigation that was in progress. But if the meeting in question really was, as had been stated by the Under Secretary, illegal, a Magistrate ought to have been present, and to have accompanied the police to the spot to read the Riot Act, in case the people refused to disperse. The people were not obliged bylaw to disperse until the Riot Act had been read; but he was prepared to admit, if, previous to that, the police had been attacked by the populace—that if force had been used on the one side—force was perfectly justifiable on the other; for the maxim of the law was, that force might be repelled by force, and in such a case every constable had aright to act upon the defensive. This he conceived to be the law in this country, although it was different with respect to Ireland; for by a particular Act, if a meeting of the Irish people refused to separate within five minutes after they were ordered to disperse by a Magistrate, the persons then and there assembled would be guilty of an offence punishable at law. For the present, while a judicial inquiry was pending, they should cautiously abstain from all observations that might bear upon the subject of that investigation, for no man ought to attempt even to anticipate its result; but if a murder had been committed, if life had been sacrificed, those by whom the measures taken on the occasion had been advised lay under a deep and serious responsibility.
 Lord Duncannon  replied, that the Committee would have full power to investigate the whole subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  took that opportunity of asking the noble Lord whether it was true that, in an action tried some time ago between the Crown and the Primate of Ireland relative to those lands, the Lord Chief Baron had ordered the Solicitor of the Crown to pay five guineas to each of the Jury for their attendance; and whether, in fact, a sum of 378 l
 Lord Duncannon  in reply said, that the case had been removed from the Assizes of the county of Cavan to be tried in the city of Dublin, by consent of both parties. The
 1275 l
 Mr. Lefroy  would be unworthy of a seat in that House if he did not rise in vindication of the learned individual who had been so improperly attacked by the noble Lord, and to assure every hon. Member who heard him that there was no foundation whatever for the imputations which had been cast on his learned friend. If there had been anything wrong in the conduct of the learned Judge an appeal was open to the party aggrieved; but, instead, of moving for a new trial on the ground of misdirection, or on any other ground which could be assigned in public court, what had the noble Lord done? Why he had come down behind the learned Judge's back, and brought a charge against him, well knowing that he could not answer it. If there were a Judge on the Irish Bench more learned, impartial, upright, and honest than another, it was the distinguished individual who had been that night so wantonly assailed.
 Lord Duncannon  said, he had made no complaint against the learned Judge, but had merely referred to his opinion as Attorney General, with a view of showing that the trial in question was not instituted by the present Government, but by their predecessors.
 Lord Duncannon  said, he had taken his information from the notes of a short hand writer who had been employed at the trial.
 An Hon. Member  rose to order, and complained that the hon. Member's speech had reference to a scale of prices unconnected with the Motion.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, he would oppose the present measure, because he considered it a Bill of pains and penalties, and not calculated to secure the better observance of the Sabbath, or conduce to the interests of religion.
 Mr. Lefroy  considered they ought not to hesitate in going into Committee. The Bill was founded on such principles as, with a slight modification of its details, could not fail to be acceptable to a majority of that House.
 Mr. Wynn  was much more disposed to trust to the gradual growth of religion, than to any new penal enactments. There was a clause, at the end of the Bill, which declared that it was not to extend to works of piety, charity, or necessity. Who was to be the judge of what constituted works of this description? Must it not be the individual who was setting out on it? If he could convince himself that a work on which he was about to engage was a work of charity or necessity—and thus feel himself at liberty to travel on a Sunday in furthering it—was it necessary for him to satisfy every innkeeper that he was really at liberty to hire post-horses? Suppose the case of an officer hastening to join his regiment—or of a child to visit a dying parent—;it would be urgent on both that they travelled without let or hindrance, and rapidly; yet they must, under this Bill, first satisfy every innkeeper, that they were engaged on a work of "necessity." To proceed as the Bill proposed, appeared to him to be acting on a novel principle of legislation. At all events, it went much too far, and he recommended that it should be withdrawn.
 Mr. Hill  hoped, that the Bill would be withdrawn, at least for the present, as he was convinced that such a measure would rather lead to the abolition of the present observance of the Sabbath than its due observance. It was, in fact, a Bill for the desecration of the Sabbath by the rich, and for the observance of it by the poor. While the chimney of the rich man might be reeking, and all his cooks employed, the poor man must be satisfied with his humble and Saturday-dressed dinner. This was not the time when the two classes ought to be brought into opposition, and least of all on such a question as the observance of the Sabbath.
 Mr. Rotck  regretted that the subject had been forced upon the House—he had himself been made the humble instrument of presenting various petitions, most carefully got up—he meant petitions read to every person who had signed them—and the question was, whether the prayer of 200,000 petitioners was to be disregarded? If the Bill was inefficient, where was the hon. Baronet to obtain assistance to render it efficient but in a Committee of that House? He could get no assistance elsewhere. He was beset with opposition,
 1336
 Mr. Petre  could not support the second reading of the Bill, though he had voted for the first stage, unless he were assured, that in the Committee it would be very considerably altered.
 Mr. Lamb  protested against the premature discussion sought to be provoked by the hon. Member, and declared he would not be tempted to enter into it then; but he was, he must say, astonished to hear the hon. Member launch out such extraordinary opinions, if not for the purpose of influencing the Coroner's Jury, at least, in some degree, prejudging the question. The hon. Member required to know whether the Proclamation had emanated from the Home Office, and under the sanction of the Chief Secretary of State, and he (Mr. Lamb) had not the slightest hesitation in replying that it had. With regard to the taunt which the hon. Member had levelled against the Government of their having fostered and winked at turbulent and illegal meetings, he (Mr. Lamb) denied the allegation, and in proof of his assertion need only refer to the Proclamation which about two years ago was issued by the Government for the suppression of a similar meeting advertised to take place at White Conduit House. On that occasion a notice similar to that which had been given in the present in-
 1273
 Mr. Lamb  declined giving any pledge of the kind required by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Lamb  begged to suggest to the hon. Member, whether he ought to put a question on the subject at present. It would not only be extremely inconvenient to answer such a question under existing
 1270
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  fully concurred in the principle and many of the details of the Bill. The opposition to the measure, and the disturbance in the House indicative of impatience, proceeded from that portion of the Members who were opposed to the Protestant religion. They might well object to the due observance of the Sabbath, on which the safety of the Church mainly depended. The hon. member for Dublin, at a meeting of the Trades' Union, had told those assembled, that the Sunday ought not to be spent in gloomy gravity, which sickened the human countenance and sallowed the complexion, and that he highly approved of the manner in which the Sabbath was usually spent in England. In his own country, the hon. and learned Member said, he had witnessed with pleasure dancing, playing at ball, and other amusements. But when such were the opinions of the hon. and learned Member, and his friend, he hoped they would have no influence over a Christian assembly.
 Mr. Harvey  was astonished at hearing the language used by the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. He had always supposed that the Judges ought to be free from any control on the part of Government, and was, therefore, utterly astonished at hearing it said, that certain conduct on the part of Government, was but a slight encouragement to Judges to act correctly. If it were true that a Judge had compromised with a Jury, by giving them their expenses before they had returned their verdict, then he must say such a verdict was a corrupt one, and ought to be set aside.
 Mr. Harvey  withdrew his Motion.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the object of his Motion for a Select Committee to inquire into the land revenues of the Crown under the Commissioners of Woods and Forests having been answered, by the appointment of a Committee on the subject, by the noble Lord (Althorp) he did not mean to press his Motion, provided it was understood that the present Committee was to have power to enter into the whole question connected with the management and disposal of the Crown lands.
 Mr. Shaw , in explanation, said that he considered every Judge as a Ministerial officer, and so far acting with the Government. He wished to know from the noble Lord opposite, whether he had ascertained the correctness of the expression attributed to the learned Judge?
 Mr. Shaw  was not surprised when the hon. and learned member for Dublin attacked the Judges, but he must complain of the imputations which the noble Lord had cast upon one of the most exemplary men on the Bench in Ireland. He thought such conduct was not becoming in a member of the Government; nor was the noble Lord justified in stating that Mr. Attorney General Joy had done one thing, and Mr. Chief Baron Joy another. The noble Lord was not justified in giving any opinion on the subject; but, whether the learned individual alluded to were right or wrong, he, although professing to be ignorant of the merits of the case, was satisfied that a more honourable or upright Judge than Mr. Baron Joy did not occupy the judicial Bench in any country. Was the conduct pursued by the noble Lord such as to en courage public men to do their duty? If, instead of being supported, the Judges
 1276
 Mr. Shaw  thought, that Parliament ought to legislate no further than to regulate public trading; but, although the Bill went too far, it could be sufficiently altered and improved in the Committee. It was the moral and sound sense of the country which required some enactment on the subject, and he hoped Ministers would not set themselves against all improvement in this respect.
 Mr. Warburton  would, in that case, propose, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read this day six months.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he could not see that there was any inconvenience in proceeding to the debate at half-past eleven o'clock. If they were to proceed in such a course as that it would be impossible ever to get through the business of the Session. His reason for proposing the Amendment was, not in order to stifle the discussion; but, because he considered that the hon. Baronet, in postponing his Motion, was consulting his own convenience, rather than that of the House.
 Mr. John Fielden  was of opinion that it would not be wise, on the part of the Government, to press the Motion.
 Mr. John Fielden  did not know why the hon. Member should have spoken to order, when he (Mr. Fielden) was showing the distress which had arisen from the operation of the right hon. Baronet's Bill. Did the hon. Member think he should support a motion like this, without giving his reasons for doing so? He could see no necessity for this interruption, nor for the repeated cries of "Oh! Oh!" He hoped hon. Members would let him proceed to the end of what he had to offer. He assured them he would not be put down by noise and clamour. He was sent there to represent the labouring and manufacturing classes, who expected their case would be attended to in a Reformed Parliament differently from the manner in which it was now received. He and they had hoped that he was sent to a deliberative assembly to discuss and determine for the
 1301 To the Right Honourable Robert Peel, his Majesty's Secretary of Slate for the Home Department. Sheweth,—That your petitioners, deeply impressed with a sense of the increasing distress of the manufacturing and labouring population within the hundred of Blackburn (which hundred contains, according to the last census, 148,704 individuals), have taken measures for the assembling of a few of the cotton manufacturers of that district, preparatory to which they had caused to be made accurate surveys of the poor in about half-a-dozen townships in which they might expect immediate co-operation in their object, and that such surveys being completed, they had intended to have prosecuted the inquiry upon a more extensive scale. But your petitioners being now assembled at the Bull Inn in Burnley, on the first day of May, 1829, and being furnished with the several returns from townships hereafter alluded to, feel themselves so alarmed with the result, that they are impelled at once to submit it to you without losing the time which must be consumed in obtaining more numerous returns. That they feel themselves the more justified in this course, because they believe that the few returns already furnished, will exhibit a
 1302 That the result of these returns shows that, in the seven townships of Colne, Foulbridge, Tramden, Marsden, Barrowford, Higham, Goldshard, and Roughler, containing, in the whole, a population of 19,869 individuals, there are 5,137 persons (approaching to one-third of the whole), whose weekly income, arising from labour, varying from 18 d s d s s d s d d d That the property within the above township liable to the poor-rate is so overwhelmed with public charges that it does not at present afford more assistance in the shape of parochial relief than about 12 d d That your petitioners ascribe this miserable state of the poor to the present very low state of wages, which are already under the lowest state which they fell to in the distressed times of 1825–26, whilst the price of provisions in general is considerably higher than at that period. That your petitioners do not venture to give any opinion on the cause producing this low state of wages, nor to suggest any remedies for the same; but they content themselves with this simple statement of facts, to which they respectfully, but earnestly, entreat your immediate attention.  (Signed) James Grimshaw,
 Mr. John Fielden , in rising to second the Motion of his hon. colleague, begged to claim the indulgence of the House while he stated to them his reasons for doing so. He was actuated by no feelings of personal hostility to the right hon. Baronet, who was the subject of the Motion, but felt compelled from a sense of duly to adopt the course he had done. Whatever were the opinions of this House on the Bill of 1819, and the measures subsequently connected with it, the prevailing opinion out of doors was, that it had produced misery and suffering such as were never before inflicted on any people so industrious and productive as were the people of England, His hon. colleague had stated
 1293 l l l s 1294 l l l s l s l l l s s l l s l
 Mr. Hardy  was of opinion, that the present laws were inadequate for the purpose, and that a Christian House of Commons ought to do something in order to cause the due observance of the Sabbath, which was instituted, not so much for the vexation of man, as for the honour of the Lord.
 Mr. Plumptre  had great satisfaction in supporting the Bill, conformable as it was to the wishes of so numerous a body of his constituents and others; and trusted that the House would, at least, allow it to go into a Committee, where it might receive any modifications that should seem desirable. There were three classes of people to whom the Bill would be beneficial; two immediately, and one indirectly. The first was the large class of persons to whom the Sabbath was a day of bodily rest; a class not to be discarded from the attention of the House, even if the Bill had no other object in view. Another class that would be immediately affected by the Bill was that composed of persons who did not so much require the Sabbath for bodily rest, as for receiving religious instruction, and discharging religious duties. He trusted that that class would not be lightly considered by the House. They knew that there was a world beyond the grave, and were anxious to obey the commands of their heavenly Master. The third class, which would be indirectly affected by the Bill, consisted of persons whose feelings and desires ought not to be outraged; and who thought that the profanation of the Sabbath was a national disgrace, and must lead to national calamity; and that, as Christians, they could not tolerate the profanation of that holy day, without incurring the divine displeasure. An objection that had been made to the Bill was, that it was not right suddenly to check any habits which had been long established. That might be true with respect to some things; but were the habits which the Bill intended to check such as ought to be allowed to continue? Ought they not, rather, to elevate their habits to the will of God, than impiously endeavour to bring down
 1328
 Mr. Poulter  said, that the Bill would do neither more nor less than hand over all classes of society to the mercy of common informers. For instance, it was now a frequent practice for men, on a Sunday, between the two services, to go to a news-room for a short time to read the papers. What could be more innocent? Yet, by the Bill, a penalty of 50 l l l l
 Mr. Roebuck  trusted the House would at once reject the Bill; the very preamble
 1329 1330 s s s s s l s l l 1331
 Mr. Roebuck  continued. He merely wished to know whether the Government had done its duty, on what information it had acted, and if the Proclamation to which he had alluded had really issued from the Home Office, and received the sanction of
 1271 1272
 Mr. Roebuck  again repeated that he would forego his question if such an understanding was come to, or if it was the opinion of the House that his pressing it would be likely to frustrate the ends of justice.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that, he would be one of the last men in that House to take any step likely to frustrate the ends of justice in this or in any other case; and if such would be the effect of having his question answered, he was perfectly willing to postpone it until after the Coroner's Jury had come to a decision, provided it was understood that then his present request would be complied with. [ The hon. Gentleman paused, but no answer was given
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask a question of the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, whom he saw in his place, relative to a transaction that had occurred within the last few days. It appeared that a Proclamation, or a paper in the nature of a Proclamation, had issued from the Secretary of State's office respecting a meeting then about to take place in Cold-bath-fields. This Proclamation, if so it might be called, had no official, or indeed any, signature whatever affixed to it to indicate its authority; but such a document had been stuck upon the walls in different parts of the metropolis. It was supposed by many that it could not have proceeded from any official quarter, and that the meeting consequently was not illegal. As a judicial inquiry was going on, he (Mr. Roebuck) did not mean to enter further into the subject at present; but what he desired to know was, whether the hon. Gentleman opposite would have any objection to lay upon the Table of the House the information which he had received respecting this meeting, and which had induced the Proclamation to be issued?
 Mr. Lalor  hoped that the House would indulge him whilst he stated his reasons for having been one of the very small minority who had voted on this question. He was not actuated by any personal hostility to the right hon. Baronet. It was on public grounds only, that he had ventured to be one of the minority. He was of opinion that the Bank Restriction Act had originally been the cause of the distress [ The hon. Member was here called to order
 Mr. P. Howard  could support so few of the clauses of the Bill which had been introduced by the hon. Baronet, that he must vote against the second reading, though he respected the motives of those who adopted a different course. A bill should give something like an accurate and defined outline of what was afterwards to be filled up and perfected in Committee, otherwise the process of amending would be endless, and the result almost always unsatisfactory. He was disposed to take effectual means of preventing any unnecessary barter or business on the Lord's Day, especially during the hours of divine service; but must, at the same time, remark, that many of the causes which led to the more serious violations of the Sabbath could not be reached by legislation. A practice (for he would only detail one instance), existed in Manchester,
 1337
 Mr. Wason  suggested, that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. If that were consented to, he would vote for the second reading, not otherwise.
 Mr. Robert Grant  contended, that the observance of the Sabbath was a proper object of national care. If the present Bill were thrown out, he feared the people would think that the Reformed Parliament was disposed to deny the principle of this
 1335
 Mr. Estcourt  concurred in the principle of the Bill, but thought that beneficial alterations might be made in it. No one could deny that it was desirable to keep the shops shut on the Sabbath.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  would only detain the House two minutes, but could not avoid saying, in answer to the hon. member for Bath, that the preamble of this Bill was copied from another on the same subject 107 years old. Bishop Porteus had said, and most truly, that the due observance of the Sabbath was the great bulwark of Christianity.
 Mr. Cobbett , I observed at the outset that I supposed that a Motion would be made to expunge these proceedings, but if they be not printed on the Minutes of the House, that is quite a novel proceeding. Many things have already been done by this Parliament to overset former usages [" question
 Mr. Cobbett : The noble Lord has moved that the motion be not inserted in the Minutes of the Proceedings of the House. That, however, is not the way in which the Speaker has put the Question.
 Mr. Cobbett : Expunging a Motion, and not putting it on the proceedings, are two different things.
 Mr. Cobbett : Sir, I most readily apologise to the House. If the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would only take off the Malt-tax, the House and Window-tax, and the taxes on soap and candles, he might set at naught all speculation in public confusion. But, Sir, I would much rather see public confusion than see the people trampled upon and knocked on the head, as they have been within the last few days [Here the hon. Member abruptly resumed his seat, finding it impossible to proceed any further].
 Mr. Cobbett , in rising to reply, was received with the strongest manifestations of disapprobation from both sides of the House. The hon. Member said, that more calumnious insinuations and more groundless charges than those brought against him on the present occasion had never been heard within the walls of Parliament [ shouts of dissent the shouting increased Interruption from all parts of the House
 Mr. Cobbett  admitted, that the Resolutions were long; but he was at the same time sure, that he had seen Resolutions equally long which had been moved in that House, and placed on the Journals. The House, however, might dispose of the question as it thought fit; but he would proceed, in the mean time, to show, that the Resolutions were founded in justice and reason. The hon. Member proceeded as follows:—Much has been said about Ministerial responsibility; but, for my part, I have never seen anything like real responsibility demanded of any Minister. Responsibility does not mean being-laughed at, or scolded, by the Members of this House. It means liability to punishment of some sort; and the least of those punishments is that of being publicly censured or reproved by some public authority. In common life it means liability to suffer in person or in purse; and not, to use the word ignorance as applicable to the right hon. Baronet, men are made to suffer, and justly made to suffer, for injuries arising from their want of knowledge in matters which they undertake to perform. If, for instance, a person profess to be a surgeon, and you experience injury from his want of knowledge of his profession, you
 1282 s d s d s d s d s d s d 1283 s d d l l l s 1284 s s s s s s l s d s d s d s d s s s 1285 1286 i i 1287 amende honorable 1288 1289 1290 l 1291 1292 s d s d
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the paper which he had read was entitled a Resolution. It began, "Resolved," and went on as a Resolution to the end.
 Mr. Cobbett  spoke to the following effect * Resolved * 1278 ordinary courts of justice have usually been deemed competent to afford redress to the injured; but that, when the wrong is the act of a Minister of State, sworn to advise the King for the good of his people, when that Minister of State receives as a reward for his fidelity and skill large sums of the people's money, and when the wrong by him done is, in its effects, so deeply and so generally mischievous, as to send ruin and misery to sweep over the kingdom like the pestilence, then there is, for the purpose of yielding justice to the suffering millions, no power competent but that which is possessed by their faithful Representatives assembled in this House. That, in the year 1819, there had long been and then was, in virtue of divers Acts of Parliament theretofore passed, a paper-money in circulation throughout this kingdom, which paper-money was, in effect, a legal tender in payment of all private debts, as well as in the payment of taxes; that this paper-money, descending so low as to notes of one pound, had been the almost only circulating money of the country, from the month of February, 1797, that is to say, for the space of twenty-one years; that this paper-money soon became depreciated to so great an extent, that the prices of commodities had, during the said twenty-one years, risen on an average of years and of commodities, to about double the amount of the prices at which the same commodities were usually sold before the issue of the said legal-tender paper-money; that the depreciation of the money was so notorious and so amply avowed in Parliament, that divers Acts were passed, during the said twenty-one years, to raise the allowances to the royal family, the salaries of the Judges of the police Magistrates, of the army, of the navy, and of almost every one in public employ, for the purpose of counteracting the effect of this very great depreciation; that, during the said twenty-one years next preceding 1819, all mortgages, rent-charges, leases, settlements, annuities, bonds, and other contracts for time, together with all wills and testaments, had been agreed on, settled, and made, on the basis of this depreciated money; and that, during the said twenty-one years, about 500,000,000 l That, notwithstanding these premises and conclusions, so indubitably true, and so clear to the understanding of every man of common sense, the right hon. Robert Peel, then one of
 1279 That this Act, which received the royal assent on the 2nd July, 1819, though it provided for what was called the gradual resumption of gold-payments, began at once to plunge the whole community into pecuniary confusion; that the prices of all commodities, and of all property, moveable, or immoveable, began instantly to fall prodigiously in price; that mortgaged estates were, in thousands upon thousands of instances, taken from the owners and sold, in many cases, for less than the amount of the mortgages; that, in other cases, fixed charges upon estates swallowed up the whole of the rental; while, with regard to leases, bonds, annuities, and other contracts for time, and, above all things, with regard to property dropping in to be disposed of by will, the demon of injustice seemed to have been, by this destructive Act, let loose upon the kingdom, setting landlords and tenants, creditors and debtors, brothers and sisters, parents and children, to tear each other to pieces, bringing down hundreds of thousands of families from a state of competence and ease, and many from a state of opulence, to a state of utter ruin and beggary, while all those who were living on the taxes, and who were in fact receiving double pay, were rolling in wealth, and lording it over the rest of the community; and that, of all these dreadful effects of such a measure, the said right hon. Robert Peel had been duly warned even before he brought in the said fatal Bill. That, by the said Act, gold payments were to be completely resumed, and the one-pound notes were to be wholly abolished, in the month of May, 1823; but, that so terrible were the effects of the aforesaid Act, such were the ruin and misery that it had produced, that, on the 22nd July, 1822, another Bill was, by the then advisers of his Majesty (of whom the said right hon. Robert Peel was one), brought into the then House of Commons, and was afterwards passed into a law, postponing the abolition of the one-pound notes for eleven years longer; that an important part of the Act of 1819 was thus repealed; that an acknowledgment was thus virtually made by an Act of the House itself, that it had, principally by the said right hon. Robert Peel, been induced to act unwisely, and to do great wrong to the people by the said Act of 1819. That, if the Act of 1822 had been wise, if it had put a stop to the wrong done and still doing by the Act of 1819, it came very tardily,
 1280 That, with all this sad experience of the effects of his measures, the said right hon. Robert Peel (still one of his Majesty's most honourable Privy Council, and then become one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State) gave his sanction to a Bill (which became an Act on the 22nd March, 1826) for again abolishing the one-pound notes at the end of three years, notwithstanding the postponement of such abolition, provided for in the Act of 1822; that, by this Act of 1826, the nation was again plunged back into the low prices, and, in effect, double taxes, produced by the unjust Act of 1819; that the ruin and misery of all the industrious classes, and the wealth and luxury of those who live on the taxes, have gone on increasing from that day to this; and that, at this moment, there appears to be no human being able to discover any quiet way of extricating the kingdom from its present state of unparalleled difficulty and danger. That, contemplating these mighty calamities, thus heaped on his Majesty's industrious and dutiful people, and further contemplating the probable danger there from to be apprehended to the safety of his Majesty's authority and Throne, and clearly tracing a great part of these to the want of knowledge in the right hon. Sir Robert Peel, this House, reserving to itself the right of adopting further and other proceedings in the premises, deems itself bound, in duty to his Majesty and from an anxious regard to the well-being of his people, not to leave them again exposed to calamities and dangers proceeding from the same source; and that, therefore, this House will present a loyal and dutiful address to his Majesty, pray-
 1281
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, that he should wish at that late hour, to postpone the discussion on this subject till Friday se'nnight.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  in obedience to the call of the House to go on, then proceeded, and observed that he did not come forward as a volunteer in this matter. On the former occasion, he had not fully explained his measure, which had done it some injustice. The idea of the Bill had not originated with himself, but with a number of humble individuals, tradesmen in the metropolis and elsewhere. There was
 1327
 The Speaker : I am unfortunate in not making myself understood. There is nothing which any Member moves in this House which (whatever may be the opinion of the House) does not, the moment it is moved and seconded, go upon the clerk's books. The question for the House to decide—what it owes to itself and to the public—is to consider whether, according to the merits and justice of the case, it will suffer it to remain on the books,
 The Speaker : I will explain why I put the Question in the terms in which I did. The minutes of the proceedings are going on during the Debate, and the Motion of the noble Lord being that the Motion of the hon. Member should not be continued on the proceedings, the only way to effect that object is to expunge the Motion.
 The Speaker  said, before the House proceeded to consider the question, it would be as well to ascertain from the hon. member for Oldham, whether what he bad read was a part of his speech, or a Motion [Mr.  Cobbett
 The Speaker  said, if it was a Resolution, or a string of Resolutions, he had only to inform the hon. Member, that it was customary to place on the Journals of the House Resolutions or Motions; but it would be extremely inconvenient to place on these Journals elaborate arguments or pamphlets.
 The Speaker  interposed to order, and said, the hon. Member had uttered language
 1324
 The Speaker  put the Question, "that the proceedings be expunged."
 The Speaker  decided that the hon. member for Bath was not disorderly. He had a right to ask the question he had put to the hon. the Under Secretary, but it would be for the House to deal with that question as they pleased.
 The Solicitor General  said, that considering the investigation now proceeding might lead to a trial of a grave and highly penal nature—namely, the trial for life or death of one of his Majesty's subjects at the Old Bailey—he thought the hon. member for Bath would have done much better if he had abstained from the observations in which he had indulged. He (the Solicitor General) also wished the hon. and learned member for Dublin had refrained from the remarks which he had made. The legality of the meeting would be inquired into by the competent authorities, and that being the case, he (the Solicitor General) had nothing more to say at present but to enter his protest against the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that an illegal meeting could not be dispersed without reading the Riot Act. The contrary was the law.
 The Solicitor General  rose to order. It was, he believed, unparliamentary to bring forward a subject for discussion in that House which was undergoing judicial inquiry elsewhere.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he had never known an instance of a measure being got rid of in the way in which the hon. member for Bridport proposed to get rid of the present. He did not envy the hon. Member, as his only object must be to stifle discussion, It was inconsistent with the common courtesy of the House, that an Amendment of such a nature should be made when an hon. Member proposed to postpone a Motion merely for the convenience of the House. The Amendment was, as far as he knew, perfectly unprecedented, perhaps the hon. Member might be able to supply an instance of the kind; but he knew of none. He hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion to a division.
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not deem it right in Government to throw the whole weight of their influence against the Bill. Without attaching undue importance to the prayers of the people, he would wish the House to remember that this was a question on which the people of England had shown a strong and decided feeling. Without yielding their judgment, or acting on any question without the most deliberate conviction, he must say, that any subject was deserving of anxious and attentive consideration which was borne to them on the prayers of 230,000 persons. He was happy that he could agree with the noble Lord, in the opinion that, during the last thirty years, there had been a great improvement in the manner of observing the Sabbath. But was that improvement not less than might have been expected from the increased means of religious instruction, which above all other countries, we had so eminently, during that interval, possessed? The Lord's Day in this country was observed in a manner superior to that in which it was kept in any country of Europe—Scotland excepted; so much so, indeed, that foreigners constantly complained of our strictness. But the question for consideration was, whether our observance was such as it ought to be, according to the commands of Scripture? Let them remember also, the cries of those petitioners who had asked our interference on a ground which no Legislature could rightly reject—that of protection. Was the hon. and learned member for Bath aware, that no less than 7,400 journeymen bakers had petitioned the House of Commons to enable them to observe the Sabbath? Whether it were right or not to grant their prayer, it was fitting that the Legislature should consider it well. Some of those who petitioned, might be influenced by worldly motives—but it could not be questioned that many were actuated by the purest and most sacred feelings—regarding the Sabbath as a divine institution, which they ought to observe. Some-
 1333 1334
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that, influenced by the respect which he entertained for the tribunal before which he was arraigned, he should treat the charge as if it had been preferred against him by some man of great weight and influence, who acting according to his conscientious conviction, and stimulated by an imperative sense of duty, felt it necessary that in his person a public example should be made, and that he should be subject to the highest penalty which could be inflicted on any one admitted to his Majesty's Councils. He would take for granted that the hon. Gentleman conscientiously believed it to be incumbent upon him to call upon the House to inflict the greatest public disgrace which they could inflict, as a warning to future Ministers. It certainly appeared strange to him that the hon. Gentleman should conscientiously entertain that opinion, when, only a few nights ago, he had openly avowed in that House, that when he compared him (Sir Robert Peel) to others who had been concerned in the same measures, he thought him an angel of spotless purity. That the hon. Gentleman should, after such an avowal, think it reconcileable with justice, to select him as the special and single victim for punishment, warranted a suspicion that other objects than those of public justice were contemplated by the hon. Gentleman. Two months had now elapsed since the notice of this Motion was first given, and up to this hour he had never received the slightest intimation of the specific ground on which he was to be put upon his trial. Whether the charge was a corrupt motive, or ignorance, or wilful misconduct, he was left to guess from the vague notice of the hon. Gentleman's Motion. He now under-
 1305 1306 1307 1308 1309 argumentum ad hominem * * 1310 1311 1312 l s d l l s 1313 l 1314 1315 l l s d 1316 Cobbett Cobbett 1317 The Register 1318 1319 1320 1321 I know well what is coming but to point you out to point him out 1322 1323 Come the eleventh plague, rather than this should be; Come sink us rather in the sea; Come rather pestilence, and reap us down; Come God's sword, rather than our own. Let rather Roman come again, Or Saxon, Norman, or the Dane. In all the bonds we ever bore, We grieved, we sighed, we wept; we never blushed before.
 Lord Althorp  then said: I am not aware of any precedent for the course which I am now about to call upon the House to pursue. But never in my memory, or within my knowledge, has a personal attack been made within these walls upon such grounds, or supported like the present. I feel, therefore, that it is unnecessary to detain the House by any further expression of opinion, being confident that the feelings of every hon. Gentleman will respond to my own, and agree to this proposition—"That the Resolution which has been moved be not entered on the Minutes."
 Lord Althorp  believed there was no man in that House who would quarrel with the principle of the Bill; but the details were in his opinion of so extraordinary a character, that he considered they could not depart from the usual parliamentary course of opposing it at once. Nothing in fact could be done with the Bill, but what would lead to the introduction of some new measure. The Bill could not be so altered as to retain anything like its present form. For his own part, he was most anxious to support any measure which would in practice be one of protection to those who desired to keep the Sabbath as a day of rest, and not of coercion to those who did not. But this was a Bill of Pains and Penalties—uncalled for and impolitic—not desired by the public, and not deserved by them; and he could not do otherwise than oppose it in its present stage. He wished for a measure, not to compel men to be religious, but to allow and enable them to be so. It was neither consistent with religion, with morality, nor with sound policy, to interfere with the old recreations of the people. Nothing would be more unfair, impolitic, or uncalled for. He really believed that the Sabbath Day was, after all, now better observed in these realms,
 1332
 Lord Althorp  said, it was obvious, from the petitions, that the measure of the hon. Baronet was agreeable to a great proportion of the people, though it might not be altogether popular. He thought, therefore, that at so late an hour it ought to be postponed, and he hoped that the hon. member for Bridport would not persevere in his Amendment.
 Lord Morpeth  doubted the possibility of carrying into effect the various provisions of so complicated a Bill, though he acknowledged the propriety of its principle. He should vote for the second reading, in the hope that it would receive in the Committee all the modifications requisite for making it a useful and desirable enactment.
 Mr. Marryat  had been instructed, on behalf of the colony of Grenada, whose interests he represented, to correct some of the misstatements contained in the speech of the right hon. Secretary for the colonies but, before entering into particulars, he could not but deeply regret the tone and temper of that speech towards the Colonial Assemblies. The right hon. Secretary truly stated, that almost insurmountable difficulties met him on every side, in the adjustment of this important question. What then could be the motive or policy of gratuitously raising up a still greater difficulty in courting, as it were, the hostility of those men through whom, and by whom alone, any plan could be safely and satisfactorily carried into execution? Supposing, even, that the accusations were true, was it fair or candid to use such language towards men who were not in a situation to defend their conduct? In rejecting the measures proposed by the
 1347
 Colonel Evans  said, he was anxious to put a question to the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary at War; and he could assure him, that he did so with all respect for the office he held, and with every good feeling towards himself personally. The question was, however, one of great public importance, and not merely of personal interest. During a recent election contest, a statement appeared in the public prints assuming that the person holding the office of Secretary at War had the power at his own pleasure to remove any officer on the half-pay list from his Majesty's service. Undoubtedly the reports of public proceedings were usually very accurate, but during elections, and at times of great excitement, the press, at least some portion of the press, was not very scrupulous in regard to the object which they had in view. He was bound, therefore, to assume, that it was in consequence of some warp or partisanship, that this statement was made. In a subsequent correction of the statement, however, this assumed power of the Secretary at War to remove an officer on the half-pay list without any cause assigned, was not distinctly disclaimed. He thought the House would agree with him, that this was a matter which ought to be clearly ascertained, both with reference to the large class of persons holding Commissions under his Majesty, and to the freedom of election, and the privileges of that House. Without any factious motive whatever, he was therefore anxious that his Majesty's Government should have an opportunity of explaining their views upon the subject; for, if any Officer holding a Commission under the Crown were liable to be removed at—
 Colonel Evans  said, that the question which he rose to put was, whether the Secretary at War had the power to remove at his pleasure any Officer on the Half-pay List from his Majesty's service?
 Colonel Evans  observed, that he was then to understand, that the power to which he had referred was not vested in the Secretary at War?
 Colonel Evans  repeated his wish to know distinctly whether the power rested in the Secretary at War, or not?
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, he would deal with the subject he wished to bring under the notice of the House, as concisely as possible, being well aware that it was of a very dry unentertaining nature. Still it was one of great importance, deserving the maturest consideration of every hon. Member of that House. It would be recollected, that in former years he had, on more than one occasion, introduced the subject of the Corn-laws to their notice, and d' latterly he had abstained from troubling the House, it was not from any apathy he had fallen into, but for two reasons, which he would then state. The first was, that he was anxious to see how the law of 1828 worked; and the second was, that in a House of Commons constituted as it used to be, he would not look for a just and impartial consideration of the Question. But the law of 1828 had now been tried, and a change had happily taken place in the Representative system, so that the great interest which hitherto had possessed no
 1350 s s d s s s s s s d s 1351 s s s s s s s s s d s s d s s s d s s d 1352 s d s 1353 s s s s d 1354 s s s s s 1355 l l l 1356
 Mr. Hume  rose, and commenced by observing, that, although he agreed in much that had fallen from his hon. friend who had brought forward this question, yet he was anxious to put it to the House in somewhat a different view. It Was often said in that House, that the agricultural, the commercial, the manufacturing, the shipping, and all the other great interests, were equally entitled to the care and consideration of the Legislature. Now, the question he wished to ask the Members of that House was, whether they thought they were warranted in giving a monopoly to one interest against all others. Were they ready, as was so often professed, to place the manufacturing and commercial interests in the same position as the agricultural interest; or would they continue to give an advantage to the agricultural interest beyond what was enjoyed by other interests? It was frequently said, that the agricultural interest had exclusive burthens to bear, and was therefore entitled to peculiar protection. He had often heard this proposition stated, but what were the peculiar burthens borne by the agricultural interest? The only burthen mentioned by his hon. friend, which was peculiar to the agriculturists, was the highway rate. [Mr.  Whitmore Hon. Member 1357 s s s s s 1358 s s s s s d s s d s s d s s d l l 1359 l 1360 s s 1361 s s s s s s s s s s s d 1362 l l l l
 Lord Newark  maintained, that if the principles of the hon. member for Middle-sex were to be established, the immediate
 1363 1364
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that as the Representative of perhaps a larger agricultural constituency than any other Member of that House, he trusted he should stand excused for offering a few observations to the House. He maintained that the free introduction of corn into the kingdom would have the effect of throwing the agricultural labourers, not only of ail Ireland, but he was persuaded of a great portion of England also, out of employment, and consequently into a state of the greatest distress; and before the country arrived at any such system, they must come to an equal adjustment of all property. By opening this question, they would throw all the peasantry upon the mercy of merciless landlords and though popularity might induce him to advocate free trade in corn, yet he could not do so in justice to those who had returned him to that House, He held, that a system of free trade in corn would not be of any benefit to the manufacturing interest, either now or at any remote period, and he therefore implored the House not to be led away by the wild theory of political economists.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  hoped the House would reject both the propositions which had been made; and he regretted that his hon. friend, the member for Wolverhampton, had brought forward his Motion at the present time, knowing, as he did, that many branches of our trade were in a flourishing state (especially the cotton trade); that the price of wheat was on the average 53 s 1365 s 1366
 Lord Althorp  rose and said, it was a matter which could be doubted by no man, that this was a question of the greatest possible consequence to all classes, and one in which the feelings of the country, whenever it might be brought under the consideration of the House with a view to its settlement, must be strongly excited. It was impossible that they should not consider, in the first instance, the time at which the subject was brought forward, and the chance which there consequently existed of a settlement of the question. He would appeal to the consideration of the House whether, if the proposition either of his hon. friend behind him, or of the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment, were carried on the present occasion, there would be any chance of the House coming to a satisfactory settlement of the question at the present moment? If he looked to the important interests which were now under the consideration of Parliament, and to the intense feeling which pervaded the country in reference to the questions which must come under their discussion, he would say, that, if ever there was a period in which it was unadviseable to enter upon a consideration of the Corn-laws, that was the time. Looking at the mere question of the time which remained for the public business yet to be done, he thought it would be found short enough without the addition of this question, which, under any circumstances, would make so large a demand on the attention of Parliament. Under these circumstances, he would ask, ought such a period to be chosen for re-opening a subject of such magnitude, and which must greatly excite the country from one end to the other? Besides, the price of corn was not now pressing. It was low, and the manufacturers were, on the whole, in a state of employment. When he objected to making any change in our system at
 1367
 Mr. Baring  said, it was fit the country
 1368
 Lord Althorp  rose to explain. He had not said, that the Corn-laws were so bad that nothing could be worse, but he had merely expressed doubts whether they operated so advantageously for the agriculturists as was generally supposed.
 Mr. Baring  begged pardon of the noble Lord, if he had pushed his construction of the noble Lord's words too far, but the impression caused by them must be, that he was unfavourable to the protecting duties. If then the noble Lord thought the Corn-laws injurious to the prosperity of the country, what time ought to be suffered to stand in the way of a removal of the evil? Had they sat in that House debating for three months and done nothing? If the noble Lord thought the Corn-laws injurious to the country, there could be no time at which they ought not to be taken into consideration. The noble Lord was not aware of the effect which might be produced upon all the great interests of the country by his remarks, when so much uncertainty existed upon this important question. The state of the Bank of England, the East India Charter—these questions had never been brought before the House; and he need hardly state to them that it would be the duty of a vigilant Government to bring forward some of these great questions on which the industry of the country depended. The impression produced by the noble Lord's speech was, that he was friendly to some alteration in the Corn-laws. Nothing could tend so much to keep all persons in the dark as to how they should keep their engagements as what had fallen from the noble Lord. The hon. Gentleman then adverted to the evidence of a Mr. Webb, of Salisbury, with a view to show the value of land. Mr. Webb, it appeared, was a valuer of land, and on the question being put to him as to what was the average value of land,
 1369 1370 s s 1371
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he should not have risen were it not for the manner in which what had fallen from his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had been misrepresented by the hon. member for Essex (Mr. Baring). The hon. Member had before now observed, in reference to himself, that his own speeches and votes occasionally disagreed in tenor, and, probably, on the present occasion, the hon. Member was too much engaged in keeping hold of his own ideas, with a view to reconcile them to his vote, to attend sufficiently to the sentiments expressed by his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His noble friend did not say (as the hon. Member appeared to suppose) that it was the intention of Ministers in a future Session to make a complete alteration in the Corn-laws; on the contrary, his noble friend carefully guarded against stating the intentions of Government one way or the other. The hon. Gentleman represented his noble friend as having said, that he considered the present law as injurious to the agricultural interest. [Mr.  Baring 1372
 Colonel Wood  said, the present law in general gave satisfaction to the agricultural interest, because it did procure steadiness of price. If Ministers were more explicit upon the subject, they would have acted more to the satisfaction of the agriculturists. He thought that something more decided should be done upon this question by the Ministers. He never would argue it as one solely in which the agricultural interest was concerned, but as one in which all great interests were alike concerned. The hon. member for Middlesex seemed disposed to impose a duty on corn for the sake of revenue, but not of protection. He should have thought corn would be the very last article selected for such a purpose. This was the object of the law of 1815. Lord Dacre and others then refused to act upon this principle, but expressed their readiness to grant protection up to the point of a remunerating price. The protection of agriculture by duties existed above 150 years. He would not go further back than 1670. The price then was 53 s d s d
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped Ministers would propose no change in the law with which the agriculturists themselves were content. He trusted the House would never entertain any proposition similar to the present. It would lead to the
 1373
 Mr. Robinson  would tell Ministers, that they were labouring under a great fallacy if they supposed the present system of Corn-laws would remain without the fullest discussion, at the proper time, by the Parliament, as then constituted. He perfectly agreed with the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that it was not at all judicious to press the subject at the present time, when so many other important matters were waiting their decision. What he principally rose for was, to protest against the assertion that the decision of that night would be taken as a final one by the country; for next Session the subject must again come before them, when he felt satisfied there would be no difficulty in showing, that the present system of Corn-laws had completely failed to answer the purpose for which they were enacted.
 Mr. Cayley  denied the assertion, that the Corn-laws bad not answered the expectations of the agriculturists. Did the noble Lord (Althorp) imagine, that the agriculturists expected a high rate of duty with a high price? They expected a low rate of duty with a high price of corn, and a high rate of duty with a low price of com; and, in that principle, both growers and consumers received ample protection. The hon. mover could not deny that we had had a very steady price even under deficient harvests he merely maintained, that if certain circumstances had occurred which he contemplated, there would not have been that steadiness of price. He was prepared to show, that we should always have less fluctuation
 1374 s s s s s d s s s s s s s s s s 1375
 Mr. Benett  considered, that the present Corn Bill had worked well for all classes in the country for the last five years. He, therefore, was opposed to any alteration of it. So important and numerous a class as the agricultural labourers ought to be the object of the particular protection of the Legislature.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the people of this country ought to have food as cheap as possible, and the meaning of the word "protection" was dear food. There was no virtue in a Reformed Parliament if it did not give the people cheap food. He was groaned at for advocating cheap provisions for the people. If any one would come forward to remove all taxes from the articles of subsistence he would give them his support. But it might be said he was speaking against the interest of the people of Ireland, who had a monopoly of the supply of this country with corn. The fact was, however, that the people of Ireland did not get one ounce of the corn grown in their country. They did not eat bread—they scarcely got potatoes; and all the benefit of the monopoly went into the pockets of the absentees. His only objection to the Motion was, that it did not go far enough. The people well knew, that protection meant dear food; and how would their decision this night go forth to the world? It would be said, that the gentry of the country, the men of fortune, Members of that House, having power to make laws, made them for their own advantage and protection, for the oppression of the poor, who needed legislative protection, and in order to raise their own incomes by impoverishing and starving the people [ Loud cries of "No, no," and cheers, in which some one in the Gallery joined
 Mr. Dundas , who was in the side Gallery, rose, and, addressing the Chair, said," Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to state, that there is a stranger in the Gallery joining in the cheers of the House."—[A pause ensued,
 1376
 Mr. Lalor  stated, from the place he occupied in the Gallery, that he was the only person who cheered in the Gallery. It was a mistake to suppose that any stranger had cheered, at least so far as he had observed.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  disclaimed any wish to interfere with any hon. Member's privilege, and said, that he had acted under the impression that there had been a violation of the privileges of the House, and the freedom of the debate.
 The Speaker  said, that as the supposed violation of order had been explained, there was no occasion, he presumed, to proceed any further in the business. Undoubtedly if any stranger had been guilty of using any expression of approbation or disapprobation, or of noticing, in any manner, the observations of Members, it would have been a high breach of privilege, which it would have been the duty of the House to visit with some mark of its displeasure. The hon. Member had done perfectly right in calling the attention of the House to the supposed violation of its privileges.
 Mr. O'Connell  then proceeded. That which he had sought to impress upon the House was, that they would be placing themselves in a very unenviable and, he might add, dangerous contrast between their regard for their own interests and the interests of the people if they rejected the present Motion. "The people would be reminded of this contrast as many times in the day as they took food, and no sophistry would be able to get rid of the impression their conduct would make upon the minds of the people. [" Oh, oh. 1377
 Colonel Conolly  said, it was his fate always to follow the hon. and learned member for Dublin, whole ingenious perversion of facts and the sentiments of the people of Ireland seemed to him to require a corrective. As an Irish landlord he hoped the House would not concur with that hon. and learned Gentleman in thinking, that he could not feel for the interest of the people as well as his own. If the House meant to maintain faith with the public creditor, it must do so with the agricultural interest. This was the opinion of much higher authorities than he could pretend to be. If the manufacturing interest expected relief by spoliation of the landed interest, never had they been more misled by any of the many silly and shallow projects that had been submitted to that House.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  was as anxious to see the people have cheap food as the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but he did not see how it was possible to give the people cheap food, or more of it, by depriving them of all the money they now earned. He knew that the class of liberal tradesmen were not so much against the Corn-laws as was pretended. He knew a Gentleman who employed 3,000 men daily in the iron-works, and it was the opinion of that Gentleman, that if the Corn-laws were repealed the depression of agriculturists would communicate itself to them. He should oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Henry Handley  regretted the question had been brought forward at present, and also the temporising speech made by the noble Lord. He thought there was too much legislation already upon this subject. It would be better to let the parties settle things more amongst themselves.
 Sir Francis Burdett  spoke amidst frequent interruptions. He thought the question would be better disposed of by a Committee up-stairs, and that it could not be satisfactorily dealt with by the House. He was for a free trade in corn and all other commodities. He would have voted for the original Motion had no other been proposed; but as the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex went further, he should vote for that.
 Mr. Hume  begged leave to withdraw his Amendment. He thought the sense of the House might be taken upon the first Resolution.
 Lord Althorp  said that, as the Amendment had been withdrawn, he should propose as an amendment the previous question.
 Mr. Ellice  hoped, that he should not be misunderstood. What he had stated was, that if a case should unfortunately arise which appeared to his Majesty's Government to call for the dismissal of an officer, it was the province of the Secretary at War to take his Majesty's pleasure on the subject, and for the advice which he might give his Majesty he was responsible.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he had no hesitation in answering the question put to him by the hon. and gallant Colonel. If, unfortunately, it appeared necessary to remove any Officer from the Half-pay List, it was the duty of the Secretary at War to take his Majesty's pleasure on the subject; and the Secretary at War was responsible for
 1349
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  gave notice, that he meant to move a Resolution to this effect, that the absence of Ministers from the House of Commons during the presentation of Petitions, at the morning sittings, is an insult to the House of Commons, and an injustice to the people of England. As no Ministers were there to attend to the petitions of the people, it seemed to him to be quite unnecessary to go through the farce of presenting them. He had petitions intrusted to him for presentation, but he would not bring them forward in the absence of Ministers. The only benefit the people had obtained from the Reformed Parliament was, to have their petitions thrust into a bag under the Table, un-heeded by those whose duty it was to attend to them. They might just as well be thrown into a bag hung up in the Library, or in some distant room in the building, without being brought into the House of Commons at all. It was quite ridiculous to think that such a course of proceeding could be suffered to go on. If they were merely to have a bauble in this Reform Act, he trusted some hon. Member would come forward and move its repeal. No earthly good had been done; on the contrary, they had raised the expectations of the people, by the hopes they held out, to a height far beyond what they found themselves able to meet they neglected their business in that House, and if they continued thus to absent themselves when they ought to be
 1345
 Mr. William C. Gladstone  presented a Petition from Portarlington for the Abolition of Slavery. Me wished then to allude to certain observations made by the noble Lord, the late Under-Secretary for the Colonies, in his speech to the House on Tuesday night. The noble Lord had selected an estate in Demerara, belonging to his nearest relative, for the purpose of showing what a destruction of human life had taken place in the West Indies, from the manner in which the slaves were worked. The noble Lord stated, that, in three years, a decrease of seventy-one slaves had taken place on the estate of Vreeden Hoop, which he attributed to the increased cultivation of sugar; but the noble Lord omitted to state the real cause of this decrease, in the very large proportion of Africans upon the estate. When it came into the possession of his father, it was so weak, owing to the great number of Africans upon it, that he was obliged to add 200 people to the gang. It was notorious, that Africans were imported into Demerara and Trinidad up to a later period than into any other colony; and he should, when the proper time arrived, be able to prove, that the decrease on Vreeden Hoop was among the old Africans, and that there was an increase going on in the Creole population, which would be an answer to the statement of the noble Lord. The quantity of sugar produced, said by the noble Lord to be 1,900 lbs. per head annually, was small in proportion to that produced on many other estates. Within a short period, the cultivation of cotton in Demerara had been abandoned, and that of coffee very much diminished, and the people employed in these sources of production had been transferred to the cultivation of sugar. Demerara, too, was peculiarly circumstanced; for, owing to the nature of the soil, sugar was made all the year round; and, consequently, the labour of the same number of negroes distributed over the year, would, in that colony, produce a given quantity of sugar with less injury to the people, than a similar number in other colonies working-only at the stated periods of crop. He was ready to admit that this cultivation
 1346
 The Speaker  begged the hon. and gallant Member would confine himself to his question.
 Lord Althorp  said, the answer to that question was, that it was for the Secretary at War to give advice to the Crown on the subject. The Crown had the undoubted prerogative of striking off any Officer from the Half-pay List; but the Secretary at War was responsible for whatever advice he might give the Crown.
 Colonel Evans  said, that he did not think the measure would answer the public expectation even in England, and most certainly it would not in Ireland. He regretted that the Bill did not go much further.
 Mr. Goulbourn  said, that it appeared to him that the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer had diverged from the question immediately under consideration. He should confine himself to referring very shortly to one or two topics, endeavouring to set the House right in point of argument and reasoning with reference to the appointment of the Commission. The noble Lord stated, that in England the Commissioners for building churches had power to refuse building any particular church, and the noble Lord seemed to assign that as a reason why the Commissioners to be appointed in Ireland should possess a similar power. But he was sure the Committee could not fail to perceive, that there was a most important distinction between the two cases. There the money for building churches was to be taken from the revenues of the Church itself and it surely ought on every principle of justice and equity to be applied to the furtherance of the objects sought to be obtained by the Establishment. If the noble Lord intrusted to lay Commissioners the power of refusing to apply the
 1388 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  observed, it had been argued that the business might be transacted by a Board, similar to the Board of First Fruits in Ireland. Now, he certainly did not approve of the constitution of that Board. It consisted of Archbishops, Bishops, Judges, Law Officers, and "two other proper and discreet persons." Now, he would undertake to say, that more of the business was performed by the two "proper and discreet persons" than by all the others put together. The Board would be, however, in some degree, similar to the Board of First Fruits; but Government, instead of adding "two proper and discreet persons," had extended the number to three. It was said, that this plan was adopted to increase the patronage of the Crown; but the Bill would
 1395
 Mr. Wynn  had no objection to some parts of the Bill, though he had to others. He was of opinion, that two lay Commissioners would be sufficient, and he thought that the Archbishop of Dublin and the Dean of St. Patrick ought, on account of
 1397
 Colonel Wood  defended the conduct of the Board of First Fruits. The whole of the First Fruits last year amounted to 40,000 l l
 Mr. Wynn  thought it would be much better if the Commission were placed under the control of the head of the United Church of England and Ireland, than of the Lord-lieutenant.
 Mr. Estcourt—But  it would remain as a debt against his executors.
 Colonel Perceval  wished to ask the noble Lord whether it was just that a living should be taxed where no payments had been made to the Rector? He was acquainted with a parish in Erris, co-extensive with the county of Dublin, in which only one Magistrate resided. The parish was valued at 300 l l. l
 Colonel Perceval  said, he was anxious some time since to make the suggestions which had that night been thrown out by his friends, but the noble Lord, having in some degree given way, he should not now trespass with the time of the Committee further than to state, that he considered the power given to the Lord-lieutenant by the Bill, of removing at his pleasure any member of the Board, was an insult to the hierarchy of Ireland. The Lord-lieutenant had the power of selecting the Bishops who were to have seats at the Board, and he had also an  ad-libitum
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, that he knew several clergymen who had not received tithe for two years, in his neighbourhood. He thought imposing the tax half-yearly a great hardship.
 Mr. Cuthbert Rippon  seconded the Amendment, and observed, that he was exceedingly disappointed with what the Government had done respecting the grievances of Ireland. They had brought forward two measures, both of which were introduced under the pretence of removing abuses, but they had in reality no other object than that of inducing the people to submit to the present system. The Bill was a fraud upon the common sense of the nation, and was a flagrant instance of the departure of Ministers from those professions of Reform of which they were so lavish on their accession to office. The present pretended measure of Reform was a mere wily attempt to perpetuate the monstrous grievance, the iniquitous principle, of compelling the majority of a nation to support the Church Establishment of a small minority. But the fraud would not succeed; the Dissenters and Catholics constituted the majority of the people of the United Empire, and they never would rest satisfied till they freed themselves from the burthen of the Church of England Establishment. Did the Ministers imagine, that the nation could be deluded with these impostures—with these hollow pretences of relief? If they did, they were very much mistaken. He called upon the Government to consider the condition of the people, and then to say whether they did not require that more should be done for them than was now proposed? A double tax for the support of their own Church and another Church was now paid by the middle and lower classes of the people of Ireland, while the Church of the rich aristocracy was paid for, not by that aristocracy itself, but by the whole body of the people for their benefit. It was a monstrous usurpation of the rights of the people—an outrage upon common sense—a mockery of every principle of justice. The welfare of the many was the end of all government; a national establishment should promote the interests and be in
 1383
 Mr. Shaw  said, there was no part of the Bill to which the Irish clergy generally, and those most interested in the welfare of the Established Church, so much objected, as the tendency of this clause to lower ecclesiastical authority, and to place the spiritual concerns of the Church in the hands of laymen. View the proposed Commission in any light, the preponderance was given to the lay members. In the permanent Commissions, they were in the proportion of two to one in numbers—and in those who were removeable, as the lay Commissioners were to be paid and permanent, they would be at least in the same proportion in influence. Now, he admitted, that there was some weight in the right hon. Gentleman's argument in favour of a few paid Commissioners to do the routine business of the Board; but the right hon. Gentleman did not adduce a single reason against the continuance of all the Bishops in the same authority they had exercised at the Board of First Fruits. No person had ventured to cast an imputation upon the manner in which they performed their important duties as members of that Board. The professed object of the present Bill was to promote the building of churches, the residence of the clergy, and the dissolution of unions; and he would entreat the Committee's attention to this fact, that within the last thirty years, there had been built, under their direction and superintendence, about 480 churches, whereas in the entire preceding century there had been but 134 built. So they had caused 480 glebe houses to be erected, while in the whole of the seventeenth century there had been only 163; and in much the same ratio had unions been dissolved. He could corroborate the statement of his right hon. friend (Mr. Goulburn), that where Churches were built they soon drew cougregations to them; and he could instance a case in his own neighbourhood where the late Archbishop of Dublin had first licensed the celebration of service in a school-house, then procured the building of a church, and now there was on that spot a most flourishing congregation. How powerfully, too, did this bear upon that most objectionable provision of the Bill which en-
 1396
 Mr. Shaw  said, that notwithstanding the formidable threat of the hon. member for Meath (Mr. Grattan), to sink his right hon. friend (Mr. Goulburn) and his arguments into the earth, and to bring forward arguments of two hours' length in support of his favourite position as to the appropriation of Church property, he did not hesitate to undertake to disprove the assertion of the hon. Gentleman, whenever he thought proper to bring it forward, but he would not anticipate, at present, the two hours' discussion promised by the hon. Gentleman, further than by distinctly denying, that any part of the property now possessed by the clergy of the Established Church had ever been appropriated in the manner stated by the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Shaw  explained, and assured the noble Lord, that he had in no way entertained the notion that there could be anything in the nature of a canvassing for votes at the Board. What he contended for was a due weight of opinion and sound rational influence of the heads of the Church in matters essentially ecclesiastical, but as the noble Lord had conceded two additional Bishops in the composition of the Board, and the Committee appeared disinclined to go further, he must yield his own opinion, strong as it still continued, on the point, and he would not put the Committee to the trouble of a division.
 Mr. Shaw  assured the noble Lord, that the demands upon the Irish clergy were much heavier in proportion to their incomes than those upon the English. They were often the only resident gentlemen to answer the calls of benevolence and charity. On a former evening he thought the principle of not taxing future incumbents even on incomes under 300 l l
 Mr. Robinson  denied the assumption of the hon. Member who had seconded the Amendment, that the Dissenters in England wanted an appropriation of the Church property to purposes called purposes of public utility. He knew many Dissenters in this country who considered a Church Establishment to be extremely beneficial, and as necessary to the maintenance of the Protestant religion itself.
 Mr. Sinclair  had taken the liberty, on a former occasion, when his hon. friend (Mr. Gillon) presented a petition containing sentiments similar to those which he had now expressed, to state his own conviction, that these were not the opinions entertained by the great majority of the people of Scotland. Their deliberate conviction he apprehended to be this: that a national establishment, or, in other words, a national recognition of our dependence on God, is a national privilege and a national blessing. They not only appreciated the advantages which they themselves enjoyed under the fostering care of their own Established Church, but they recognized the services, and desired the permanence, of the Sister Establishment in
 1385
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he could not acquiesce in any clause imposing a tax upon the clergy. If it were necessary to raise a tax at all, he saw neither justice nor equity in taxing the clergy alone. They were about to abolish a number of Bishoprics; and the incomes that would thus be saved would, in his opinion, be adequate for all the purposes required. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by entering his protest against the clause.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman were quite untenable. He could occupy two hours in reading quotations that would sink the right hon. Gentleman and his arguments to the bottom of the earth.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, this was a very important part of the Bill, as it provided a Commission to superintend the ecclesiastical establishment of Ireland. They had been advised to make use of the Board of First Fruits. To that he could not agree, because that Board had not worked beneficially for Ireland. The hon. member for Montgomeryshire had recommended that the Archbishop of Dublin and the Dean of St. Patrick's should be added to the Commission on account of their constant residence in Dublin; but that very circumstance made against the proposition, because they would, in consequence of their general residence in Dublin, be ignorant of the situation of the remote parts of the country.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that the tax ought to be placed upon the actual perception of profits, and not on the abstract right of receiving the amount. Supposing the incumbent to die before the harvest, he would not have received any profits at all, though his executors would be liable to the amount of the tax.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, that in a discussion of this sort, which ought properly to be confined to the advantages or evils of the English Church Establishment in Ireland,
 1386
 Dr. Lushington  objected to an extension of the numbers of the Board as likely to retard business, for the due execution of which a certain portion of lay members was necessary.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to the payment being made half-yearly, when it was well known, that the revenues of the clergy were only paid annually. He wished to know what was to be done in the event of the clergyman receiving no revenues? If the tax was one upon receipt he could understand it, but as it stood he wished to know how Government meant to act?
 Mr. Estcourt  thought it desirable that Bishops from all parts of Ireland should be members of the Board, and protested against the exclusion from it of any Archbishop or Bishop.
 Mr. Finn  said, that the only part of the Bill that would give satisfaction in Ireland was that which related to the Vestry-cess.
 Mr. Gillon said,  that he did not approve of this Bill, which, in his opinion, did not go half far enough. It merely diminished the evil, but only to a very slight extent, whereas something much more effective was required. In this country, as well as in Ireland, some change was necessary, but especially in Ireland, where the great majority of the people were not of the religion of the Established Church. But even here he believed that the number of dissenters was much underrated; and why were they or any other people to be taxed to support a system of religion to which their own opinions did not conform? The present system in Ireland was upheld by military force, and for that reason he did not wish to see it continued, for he could never consent to impose a religious establishment upon any
 1382
 Mr. Ward  was surprised to have heard, in the course of the discussion, that the moment new churches were erected in Ireland, they were filled with congregations. That statement, which was not supported by any documentary evidence, applied, it appeared, only to new churches; for it was generally admitted, that the old churches were very scantily attended.
 The Solicitor General  said, it would only
 1402
 Sir Robert Bateson said, that though he felt happy that the noble Lord had made the concession which he had done, yet he trusted he would go a little further, and not commence the tax on any living under 300 l l l 1400 l
 Sir Robert Bateson  did not wish to take up the time of the Committee in discussing the clause at any length, but he must say, that it formed one of the most objectionable portions of the Bill. Although he had voted against the Second Heading of the Bill, now that it was in Committee, he wished to make it what it professed to be—a Bill that would conduce to the advancement of religion, and the permanence and stability of the united Church of England and Ireland. He objected to the Constitution of the ecclesiastical Commission which, in point of fact, was not an ecclesiastical Commission at all. It had been distinctly shown, that three persons, who had received salaries, would have the control of the whole proceedings. He objected to the constitution of this Commission on the true principles of Reform. He objected to it, because it would be the means of adding patronage and power to the Government, and would be the source of continual jobbing. The appointment of those paid Commissioners would be liable to be given, not to persons who were most competent to discharge the duties of the office, but to the immediate friends and adherents of the minister of the day. These Commissioners would obtain by the Bill such power over the Church to which he belonged as he should be sorry to give to any Lord-lieutenant or Government. If that Commission were wholly composed of the Bishops, it would be much less objectionable. Hon. Gentlemen on a former night had stated, that the Irish bishoprics were complete sinecures, and that, in fact, the Bishops had little or nothing to do. He did not admit that to be the case—but surely those who did could have no objection to provide employment for them; and how could the ecclesiastical affairs of the Church be placed in such proper hands as in those of the Prelates of the Church? He had given notice of an Amendment to the clause, which he should move at the proper time, unless the noble Lord consented to modify it. With regard to some observations made by the noble Lord he
 1394 l
 Sir Robert Inglis  objected to the constitution of the commission, inasmuch as it was different from that established at the Act of Union. The Act of Union provided, that the Church Government of the United Church of England and Ireland should be the same; and would any man tell him, that if such a board as that proposed was constituted, that it would leave the Irish branch of the Church inviolate? On a former occasion he slated his objections to this tribunal, and he would state, without fear of contradiction, that never, except in the worst portions of our history, was a precedent to be found for the formation of such a Board. It was not contended that the hierarchy of Ireland were deficient or wanting in due attention to the interests of the Church. This insult was therefore perpetrated upon them without a shadow of reason. He objected strongly to the; affairs of the Church being placed in the hands of a Board, the majority of whom were laymen, and one of whom must not of necessity be a Protestant of the Established Church. He would ask, whether the Lord Chancellor of Ireland must of necessity be a Protestant of the Esta-
 1387
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that a petition had been presented to the House by his hon. friend, the member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw) from the curates of the diocese of Ferns, in which they stated, that the proposed measure would be injurious to them, inasmuch as if the incomes of the Rectors were reduced, they would be obliged to dismiss their Curates, who would then have to seek for some other means of subsistence. He thought the system of taxation unfair in all its parts, but particularly so in that which pressed upon the working classes of the clergy.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that when it was stated, that laymen hadas much right to interfere with the Church as Churchmen, he protested against the doctrine, as contrary to the principles of an episcopal establishment. But if the noble Lord had said, that the laity ought to bear the burthens connected with the Church, in that proposition he would concur.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in taxing the benefices of the parochial clergy, the schedules at present were regulated upon a much smaller scale of percentage, than those already prepared. The effect of this arrangement would be to relieve almost entirely all livings from 200 l l l l l l
 Lord Althorp  did not object to a majority of the Commissioners being of the clerical character. Neither did he feel any objection to adding the Archbishop of Dublin and another Bishop to the Commission.
 Lord Althorp  then moved, "That after the words 'Lord Primate,' the words 'Lord Archbishop of Dublin' be added."
 Lord Althorp  said, it was quite manifest, that if the clergyman had no funds he could not pay the tax. It was impossible in an Act of Parliament to recognise the principle, that a man was not to receive what was his due.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the clause was not open to the objections stated by the hon. Baronet. As to a majority of the Commissioners being laymen, he intended to propose an alteration in the seventh clause of the Bill, which would meet that objection. He intended to insert a provision to the effect that the common seal of the Commissioners should not be affixed to any order, so as to render their acts valid, unless with the consent of at least one of the ecclesiastical Commissioners. He denied that the clause either was, or was meant to be an insult to the hierachy of Ireland. He would remind the hon. Baronet, that the Commissioners for building churches in England had power to refuse to assist in building any churches they pleased.
 Lord Althorp  was glad to hear the hon. Member admit that his opinions were not in unison with those of others on this point—an admission which he (Lord Althorp) believed to be very well warranted by the fact. With respect to the proposition of the hon. Member opposite, he felt that he should not be doing that which was necessary for the advantage of public business, or for the benefit of the House, if he entered into a lengthened argument to prove that a Church Establishment was desirable. He should only observe, that he thought it desirable for the advantage of religion. The hon. Member seemed to assume that all which he did not approve of must necessarily be detrimental. Surely, before he came to such a sweeping conclusion, he might have considered that it was possible he could be mistaken. He should say no more than that he could not possibly consent to the Amendment.
 Lord Sandon  recommended, that the Archbishops and Bishops should select delegates to act as Representatives of their own body in the capacity of Commissioners, instead of giving that power to the Government. They would thus escape being mixed up with any appearance of
 1398
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there were some pensions paid to persons connected with the Press in Ireland—to the proprietor of a newspaper called the  Patriot
 Colonel Evans  was glad to hear, that the noble Lord had yielded to the Motion, as
 11
 Mr. Alderman Wood  seconded the Motion. He believed his hon. friend would be content if his Motion had the effect of inducing the noble Lord to agree to the resolution passing, only postponing the commencement of its total repeal till the 5th of April, 1834, instead of the 5th of October, 1833. The public mind could never be quieted, whatever the noble Lord and his colleagues thought, until the people were relieved from those taxes, and he must agree with the public opinion, that no taxes were ever more unequal, more unjust, or more obnoxious. The noble Lord had taken off taxes to which the people were comparatively indifferent, whilst he fixed upon them taxes which were unpopular, and of such a nature, that there never could be satisfaction or quiet in the country until they were abolished. He could assure the House, that it had been his lot as a Magistrate to issue 500 summonses for rates upon houses, of from 40 l. l. s.
 Colonel Evans  did not mean to say, that the hon. Gentleman had denied the existence of distress, but that he had stated that distress not to be great. Now, he (Colonel Evans) believed that distress prevailed to a serious extent, and, indeed, more than was assumed by the hon. Gentleman. He had been informed upon very good authority, that within the last two months no less
 24 l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. 25
 The Attorney General  said, that it was with the deepest reluctance, that he, considering the time at which the proposition had been brought forward by his hon. colleague, felt bound to oppose it. That proposition was neither more nor less than that the House should say, that from the 5th of October next the House and Window tax should cease. For this great reduction of the revenue' amounting to no less than 2,500,000 l. 26 l. l.
 Colonel Evans  said, that the hon. Gentleman, the member for Cambridge, had alluded, in the course of his argument, to the condition of the parish of St. James, Westminster, and by doing so had chosen the parish which of all others was most favourable to his argument. He (Colonel Evans) begged to call the attention of the House and of the Government to the parish of St. John. With respect to the argument of the hon. Gentleman, that if these taxes were repealed, the landlord would alone benefit by the increase of his rent, he would, however, first observe, that even if any instance of the kind should occur, it would not justify the House in legislating upon such grounds; but with respect to the parishes in question, the hon. Gentleman had said, that there was no distress.
 Mr. Warburton  presented a petition, signed by 2,500 of the Electors of Bristol, praying that the evidence laid before the Election Committee, which had decided in favour of the return of the sitting Members, should be laid before the House, in order that hon. Members might be a ware of the nature of
 34
 Mr. Baillie  declared that there never was an election in which there had been less corruption than the last at Bristol. The whole expense had not exceeded 900 l.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the hon. member for Bristol spoke as if the question lay only between him and the petitioners; but the question was one of public importance. It was not a private but a public concern to ascertain whether practices of bribery and corruption had existed in any particular case. If such things should continue, the last state of this Reformed House would be worse than the first. It was necessary that such measures should be taken as would secure purity of election.
 Mr. Fitzsimon  supported the prayer of the petition; but deprecated the imputation of hostility to the sitting member for Bristol.
 Lord Althorp  knew nothing of the case, but what he had heard in that House. He was averse, however, to the production of the evidence, because it appeared to him to be  ex-parie.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, the petition originated in the disappointment of the Radical party at Bristol; and, as it contained libellous and calumnious assertions against individuals, he should move that it be rejected.
 Mr. Warburton  had read the whole of the evidence taken before the Election Committee, and he thought that a case of gross corruption, deserving the serious attention of the House, was made out. It appeared that previous to the nomination day extensive treating was carried on; that on the nomination day from 900 to 1,000 electors received bribes of 3 s. 35
 Lord Althorp  said, that he was of opinion, after hearing the statement of the hon. member (Mr. Warburton), that the case was one which ought to be investigated, and he wished to know whether the hon. Member intended to prosecute the inquiry in the event of the Motion he had just made being carried."
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if no other person took the management of the business, he should feel it his duty to prosecute the inquiry. Whether it could be gone into this Session must, of course, depend on the state of the business before the House.
 Lord Althorp  thought that as many Gentlemen considered the evidence to be partial, it would be as well not to print it at present.
 Mr. Warburton  had no objection to accede to the noble Lord's suggestion, and would therefore only move, that the evidence be brought up and laid on the Table.
 Mr. Tennyson  stated, that, as the 5th of April was more obnoxious to the Government, by the noble Lord's statement, than the 5th of October, he should vote for the original Motion. He thought a revision of taxation necessary, and that a Property-tax should be imposed. Unless the people were relieved, there would be no satisfaction, though he for one, would never countenance the non-payment of taxes. He was persuaded that if the House did not make the reduction now, it would be compelled to do so by and by in haste, and would then do it with regret.
 Lord John Russell  said, that his noble friend, in granting the returns moved for by the hon. member for Colchester, did not accede to the arguments or assertions which he had made use of, all of which he was perfectly ready, at any future suitable opportunity, to meet and oppose.
 Mr. Hawes  had understood that the proposition was to be to reduce the tax next April, and to that he was ready to give his assent; but he could not assent to reduce it in October, in the middle of the financial year. He moved, as an Amendment that the taxes should cease on the 5th of April next, instead of the 5th of October.
 Mr. Harvey  observed, in reply, that where no returns could be made to that House, no further payments should, he thought, be made out of the public purse. The time had come when the people of this country would not pay, nor ought to pay, one shilling more to maintain and pamper the luxurious and lascivious aristocracy of the country. There were people riding in their carriages—riding over people in the streets—upon pensions paid by the people, for which no public services were performed, and this the people could not, nor ought not, to endure any longer. With a view to meeting the noble Lord's distinction as to the pensions charged on the Civil List, as distinguished from those charged on the Consolidated Fund, he would alter his Motion by the insertion of the words, "heretofore paid out of the Civil List, and now paid out of the Civil List and Consolidated Fund."
 MR. Harvey , in rising to submit a motion to the House on the subject of the pensions paid out of the Civil List, said, that his object was to put this question distinctly to the House, whether any portion of the public money was to be received by any persons of either sex, for which some known and adequate service had not been rendered. That was the simple point on which he wished to take the opinion of the House, and he had no intention to touch on any other subject. He did not mean to attack either military or naval sinecures, for he knew, that if he did, he should have all the heroes in that House rising up against him, and asking whether the House was prepared to sacrifice, on mercenary grounds, men who had risked their lives in defence of their country, and who were associated with the brightest periods of our history. His Motion, therefore, would be confined solely to the pensions on the Civil List; but he trusted
 3 l.
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that the statement just made by the noble Lord would not be considered satisfactory by the country. Though the House had agreed to settle the Civil List at the commencement of the present reign, it was with the clear understanding that the pensions granted during the last reign were to be open to investigation and inquiry. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Colchester, that many of those persons were receiving the public money who had rendered no services to the public.
 Mr. Roebuck  denied that this was a mere local question; it was a question intimately interesting the whole population. As to the noble Lord's proposition [ Calls of "Question" and Disturbance
 Mr. Roebuck  repeated, that the noble Lord's plan for the reduction of taxation was a mere farce. If it benefited anybody, it would only be one particular and limited class, the monopolist landholders of Cheap-side or Bond-street; while the shopkeepers at large of the metropolis, of Bath, and the other great towns, would be burthened as much as ever; and the tax would fall wholly on the tenants. He objected to those taxes, not because they were direct taxes, but because they were unequal in their operation. A great demur had been made to the mention of a graduated tax upon property; but was it forgotten that the House-duty was a tax of this description, only graduated the wrong way?
 Mr. Brotherton  thought Ministers might be enabled to repeal these taxes, and that, too, upon a just principle. He would endeavour shortly to state in what way. From the year 1796 up to 1815, this country borrowed 582,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 27 s. s. s.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry and surprised to hear, that the learned Serjeant (Spankie) would vote in favour of these taxes, for he had considered that hon. and learned Member's speech as conclusive against them. The hon. Member then proceeded to complain of the manner in which Ministers had persisted from the first in insulting the people on this point—first doling out this contemptible item and then that; yet persisted in keeping up a great part of it, with all its expensive machinery, though the distress of the people was undeniable. The expense of collection was enormous, and no inconsiderable portion of these expenses was given to spies, who assisted in the surcharging work. Almost the whole of these expenses might be done away with; and, indeed, he would say, that the taxes, reduced to a proper standard, might be all collected for 3,9,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. If the House were not willing to hear hon. Members, it was quite clear, that the question would never arrive at a satisfactory conclusion.
 Mr. Hume  was afraid there was some misunderstanding on this subject. There were already returns before the House showing the names of those who received pensions, and the amount received by each individual. The words of this Motion which were most material, were "the public grounds or other consideration as far as practicable," on account of which the pensions had been granted.
 Mr. Sergeant Spankie  felt it his duty to oppose the Motion. If the Motion had been to take the subject of the Assessed taxes into consideration, he would have supported it; but, at present, and till some substitute were found for the taxes to be repealed, the Motion involved, in fact, a breach of faith with the national creditor. He agreed, however, with the right hon. member for Cambridge, that the House-tax was a lax on property of rent; but, he believed, as it was immediately paid by the tenant, that it was felt by him as a great burthen, in a season of distress, and was consequently most unpopular. He should be happy when the time arrived that both the taxes on houses and windows could be dispensed with.
 Mr. Spring Rice  wished to call the attention of the House to what the exact proposition then before them was. The hon. Member who introduced the question had stated, that on a former occasion, when the repeal of the House and Window-tax was brought forward, it was mixed up with the Malt-tax, and with a proposed
 17 l. 18 s. d. s. d. s. d. ad valorem l. l. l. l. 19 s. s. 20 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 21 l. l. l l. l. s. d. l. s. l. l. s. s. d. 22 l. l. l. 23
 Mr. Spring Rice  had never denied the existence of distress; but that if it existed, it was inconsistent to say, that any relief given to the shopkeepers was not a relief to the distress.
 Mr. Spring Rice  explained, that he did not state that there was to be a reduction in 230,000 houses of one-half. What he did state was, that there was to be a graduated scale of reduction, beginning with the lowest in the scale. Of the lowest description of houses he had stated that there were 73,000, and that the reduction on them would be one-third, or from 1 s. d. s. s. s. d.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that unless they resorted to a Property-tax, they would never keep faith with the public creditor, or satisfy the expectations of the people, who, indeed, would no longer, because they could no longer, bear their burthens. The united feeling of the whole country was against these taxes. He was sorry to trouble the House, but thought it necessary, in order to inform them that the opinions of the learned Sergeant (Spankie) were by no means those of his constituents.
 Mr. Ward  would oppose the Resolution, not because he was hostile to retrenchment not because he was insensible to the wants and wishes of the people, but because he did not think the taxes in question the most proper which could be selected for abolition. As an honest man and a Member of Parliament, determined to do his duty to his country, he could not conceive
 29
 Sir Samuel Whalley  was glad that the Petitions on the subject of the House and Window-tax, had been presented from Bristol, as they contained a satisfactory answer to the assertion that the cry against the Assessed-taxes was raised only in the metropolis. He was convinced that the desire was as great in all parts of the country, although in some places the thinness of the population rendered it a work of time to get up petitions. He regretted that Ministers, by their refusal to comply with the prayers of the people on this point, had rendered it necessary for him to bring forward this subject, but at least it would now
 12 l. l. l. s. l. l. l. 13 l. l. l. 14 l. l. 15 Althorp: l. 16
 Sir Samuel Whalley  briefly replied. He said that the tax did not fall on the landlords; and if it did, it would before now have been repealed. He requested the hon. member for Lambeth to withdraw his Amendment, as more hostile to the Government than the original Motion.
 Sir William Ingilby  expressed his surprise that any of the metropolitan Members should oppose such a proposition as this, which he, a representative of the rural districts, was prepared strenuously to support, though he had himself been treated very scurvily by some hon. Members the other night on this great question. And here he could not but deeply regret the manner in which the two great interests of the country had been arrayed in a compelled opposition to each other, though they could only gain strength by being united. In fact, the Ministers seemed to have resorted to every method in order to suppress the attempts of the people by their Representatives for relief from their overwhelming taxation. However, the noble Lord might rely upon it that he had not done with him yet; for he intended to bring the malt question again before the House whenever the House went again into a Committee of Supply. He considered that the people must be relieved of their burthens in every point. He was very sure that there was a sufficiency of means in the country to enable Ministers to effect the relief; but if there should turn out to be no other effective substitute, he would say, let there be a Property-tax. He would allow that this was an inquisitorial tax, a very unpleasant tax; but rather than not have the Assessed-taxes done away with, he would be one of the first to support
 28
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. member for Middlesex talked of the surplus revenue in a strange way, for he proposed to take away 600,000 l. 31 32
 Lord Althorp  bad no objection to the return "as far as practicable," but he could not promise the House that it would produce much additional information.
 Lord Althorp , in assenting to the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester, as amended, observed there were a great many pensions on the Civil List which were granted years ago, and the origin of which it would be difficult, not to say impossible, now to trace.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. member for Colchester certainly had not confined his remark to that point to which
 9 l. l. l. l. l. 10
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there could be no doubt there were many defects in the wording of the Act. Ministers were afraid to consent to any Amendment in the Committee; for if they did, a whole week would be wasted by their opponents in taunts upon them, for not having produced a perfect measure. The consequence was, that many incongruities remained in the Bill which ought to be altered. The hon. and learned Solicitor General admitted the fact of the evil, and yet wished to postpone the cure—a piece of advice that seemed to be quite unintelligible. There were many contradictory decisions among the Registering Barristers, and among the Committees, and it was advisable that these points of difference should be at once settled.
 Colonel Evans  was also against the postponement, and thought that a Committee ought to be appointed before the period of registration returned. If the Committee were to be refused, he hoped that Ministers were digesting some plan for the Amendment and perfecting of the existing law.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  did not object to any real improvements that might be made in the Reform Bill, provided sufficient time were allowed to elapse for the purpose of ascertaining that the changes proposed were improvements. In his opinion sufficient time had not elapsed to show whether the Bill had worked well or ill; but after some experience they would be better prepared to legislate—they would be able to judge whether or not the alleged defects were so or otherwise. He admitted, that some inconvenience might arise from contradictory decisions; but as far as he could learn, the contradictory decisions were confined to the Irish Bill; that, however, formed no objection to the general measure, and he
 41
 Mr. Wynn  admitted, that that part of the Reform Bill which provided, that the poll should he taken in districts, and that the duration of elections should he shortened, had worked most admirably. He could not, however, make the same admission with respect to the machinery for the formation of the registry and the electoral lists. He thought, that it would he advantageous to wait till the different Election Committees had all made their decisions, because, when that was done, the anomalies and irregularities of the Bill would be better known, and therefore more easily remedied. The lists were to be made out in June, and there would be great difficulty, if a Committee were appointed, in preparing a remedial Bill, and in passing it through both Houses of Parliament before that time. A bill formed in haste upon such a subject would produce in its working greater difficulties than any which were felt at present. There were one or two points, however, which might be altered immediately without inconvenience; for instance, the names of Peers and others who were disqualified by Act of Parliament from voting, might now he placed in the lists, and if no objections were made to them, would be inserted in the Registry. This ought not to be permitted, and the Revising Barrister ought to have the power of erasing them. Again, fraudulent votes might be objected to by those persons who had an interest in supporting them. At the revision the objections might be withdrawn, and then, as no other person would have a right to press them, and as in all probability those who would have objected would have given up their opposition, on finding that there were other objectors besides themselves in the field, the Barrister would be obliged to pass votes which he suspected or even which he knew to be bad. He should, therefore, wish, that provision should be made, that when an objection was once entered to a vote, any elector should be at liberty to press it before the Revising Barrister. He could not help wishing, that the Solicitor-General would bring in a bill to settle these three points—first, how far the removal of a voter from his residence in a borough after his registration vitiated his vote; secondly, how far the Revising Barristers could themselves enter upon objections to votes, after those who had originated
 42
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that not a word had been said in this Debate respecting the working of the Irish Reform Bill. He wished it, therefore, to be remarked, that in Ireland, the people had not that part of the English Bill which was now universally acknowledged to work most admirably here. There was also a doubt in Ireland whether 10 l. l. s.
 Mr. Lloyd  was favourable to the Amendment moved by his hon. friend who sat near him. As to the objection which had been put forward with respect to time, he thought it had no weight whatever. That there were some gross errors in the law as it now stood was evident, and it was their duty to remedy it as soon as possible.
 Mr. Wallace  was of opinion that there was no necessity for putting off, even for an hour, any projected Amendments in the Bill. There was not a Gentleman in the House who must not be ware, that in consequence of the ambiguity of a portion of the Bill, much misconstruction had taken place. It was not yet settled whether the decision of the revising barrister was to be considered final or not. That was a most important point, and ought forthwith to be set at rest.
 Mr. Petre  observed, that if he believed this Bill was dangerous to the constitution, he should be ready to resist it; but believing that difference of religious sentiments was not a sufficient ground for exclusion from civil rights, he supported the second reading in order to prove that he was not actuated by any of the sordid motives imputed to Roman Catholics. He considered
 59
 Lord John Russell  was unwilling to lose the opportunity of declaring his approbation of the principle of this Bill. As a question of practice, he could not understand how the Constitution could be exposed to danger by the Bill. The number of Jews in England was 27,000; three or four out of them might be called to the Bar, live or six to inferior offices of State, and one or two to seats in that House; but they might be sure they would never hear from these latter any sentiments which would lead to the opposition of the peculiar tenets of the Christian and the Jewish religions. But although it was of no great importance as a question of practice, yet it was of great importance as a question of principle; for if differences in religious opinions were to lead to civil disabilities, they ought not to stop at exclusion from Parliament, but ought to go the fullest extent—even to banishment and death. They should either adopt the principle in its complete application, or not at all. He had never seen any reason why a Jew should not fulfil all the duties of a citizen: why he should not act as honestly, bravely, and patriotically as any other English subject.
 Lord John Russell  objected to the Motion, and trusted that the House would not adopt it. The Government had entered into a consideration of the doubts said to arise upon the face of the Reform Bill, and after carefully considering those doubtful points, and the difficulties stated to be thrown in the way of easy and cheap registration, they had come to the opinion that no alteration of that measure ought to be introduced in the present Session. They thought it better to give men who had been taken by surprise before, the opportunity of registering their votes now, and they believed that many of the objections which at first sight appeared so formidable, would be found, upon trial, not to be so serious as was imagined. He wished the House to wait till the end of the next Session of Parliament, and see whether many of the objections now conjured up would not be found to be of no value or weight whatever.
 Mr. Charles Buller  hoped, that this Motion would be pressed to a division. They had, it was true, heard from the Solicitor General, that Government would, in the next Session of Parliament, take up the subject. Now, he objected to this delay for four reasons—first, because his Majesty's Ministers might not perhaps be his Majesty's Ministers next Session; and, therefore, they might not have it in their power to redeem the pledge which they had hastened to give; second, because they had quite enough to do without adding this task to their burthens; third, because they had managed so badly almost every thing which they had taken in hand, that he was not inclined to give them much credit for their future efforts; and, fourth, because he conceived that any alteration in the measure should rather proceed from that House than from his Majesty's Ministers. He was of opinion, that the defects pointed out called for immediate revision; and he, therefore, was not willing to allow the present Session to pass over without amending the Bill, merely because the Solicitor General had stated, that something would be done in the course of the ensuing Session.
 Mr. Charles Grant  demanded what was the Committee, the appointment of which was now called for, to do? Why, it was to collect facts for the information of the House. Now, the greater part of the argument of those who were favourable to the appointment of a Committee was founded on the uncertainty of the law as it at present stood; that being the case, he should like to know in what way the collection of those facts was calculated to remove the
 44
 Mr. Edward Buller  opposed the Bill. He was of opinion that on the same principle that a qualification in respect of property was necessary for a seat in the legislature, a qualification with reference to religion might be demanded. He had heard no argument yet advanced in support of the measure which would not equally apply to the concession of universal suffrage. The present measure was calculated to favour the notion which he had seen maintained, that religion had no influence on daily conduct, which was regulated by a conventional morality.
 Mr. Ellice  had not expected such animadversions on the Government from the hon. Member who had just sat down, especially
 46
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  was anxious, that the improvement of the Bill should be left to Ministers. He did not think it would be prudent to place the question in the hands of others. He wished the measure of Reform to be brought to perfection by the exertions of those who, in the last Parliament, had laboured so steadily, and so successfully, in carrying a measure which had given great satisfaction to the country. He, therefore, would call on the noble Lord, and on the Government generally,
 45
 Mr. Finch  was entirely opposed to the Bill. It had been admitted by the right hon. Gentleman who had proposed the Bill, that few or no petitions had been presented from the parties interested in its favour, which he (Mr. Finch) could not but regard as an innovation of the British Constitution. The real question for the consideration of the House, was not one as to the
 56
 Mr. Robinson  was disposed to leave the matter in the hands of Ministers, under the assurance that the best mode of reconciling the discrepancies between the decisions of Revising Barristers was under consideration.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that in seconding the Motion of his hon. friend, he should not detain the House above a very few minutes. In fact, it appeared to him that this question resolved itself into the narrowest possible compass. He had only one single argument to advance in support of his opinion—namely, that this was a Christian country and a Christian Legislature, and that it was inconsistent with their duty and allegiance towards the God whom they worshipped, to admit those persons to occupy the highest station, or to become Members of this House, by whom he, whom we acknowledged as over all, God blessed for ever, was denounced as a crucified impostor. They would desecrate the religion of the country by such a course, and obliterate that Christian character which had hitherto distinguished our legislative assemblies, and which was recognized in the very prayers by which the proceedings of that House were daily ushered in. He knew, that in these days of religious liberalism, he should be denounced as a fanatic, on account of the sentiments which he now ventured to express; but for this he was fully prepared. Being convinced that he was discharging his duty conscientiously towards his country and towards his God, and that he was not actuated by any feeling of unkindness or disrespect towards the Jews, whose respectability and moral conduct he did not presume to disparage, he should offer his decided opposition to this Bill, and rejoice to be counted worthy to suffer shame in such a cause.
 Mr. Warburton  proposed, as an Amendment to the original Motion, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into, and report upon, the various points arising out of the Act 2nd Will. 4th, c. 45, and 88, on which contradictory decisions have been come to, whether by the Revising and Assistant Barristers, or by Returning Officers, or by Election Committees."
 Mr. Warburton  thought the inquiry proposed by the present Motion, might fairly be objected to because of its unlimited character; but it would be attended with great public advantage if the contradictory decisions not only of the Revising Barristers, but of the Committees of that House on the Reform Bill, were settled. If the disputed points on which contrary decisions were given in the Committees of that
 39
 Mr. Abercromby  put it to the House, whether, if a Committee were appointed now, the House could legislate upon its Report during the present Session? If the right hon. member for Montgomery-shire should produce a Bill amended on the three points to which he alluded, he would find other Gentlemen inclined to introduce into it other points which they considered requiring amendment. He thought, that the House would act unwisely in taking a measure of this kind out of the hands of the Government.
 Mr. Buckingham , said, that when he entered the House, he had no intention to take part in the Debate, though he should on this as on a former occasion, give the
 52 53 54 55
 Mr. Halcomb  said, that as a Revising Barrister, he knew something of the difficulties of the Reform Bill; and, knowing something respecting them, he thought, that the House ought to bring in a Declaratory Bill on the subject this Session.
 Mr. Plumptre  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Lushington) had referred the House to the Bible, and he found there that "at the name of Jesus every knee should bow." Those for whose benefit this Bill was intended rejected that name, and on that ground he opposed the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the Select Committee was not to be appointed to decide any question of law, but merely to ascertain a matter of fact, which matter of fact would be material in governing the conduct of the Revising Barristers when they should next be called upon to act.
 Mr. Pease  observed, that Gentlemen acquainted with counties must know, that sufficient time had expired to enable churchwardens to become cognizant of the duties which they had to perform, and to direct them in the mode which, under this Bill, they were bound to pursue. If, in the performance of those duties, they found that the Bill offered impediments or incumbrances, the sooner those impediments or incumbrances were removed the better.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  referred to several conflicting decisions by Election Committees, which rendered it necessary that some general system should be established before the Revising Barristers were again called upon to act. In his opinion, the moment a defect was discovered, a remedy ought to be applied to it.
 Mr. Robert Grant  moved the second reading of the Jews' Civil Disabilities Bill.
 Dr. Lushington  said, some of the hon. Members, who were the loudest and most vehement in their professions of Christianity, seemed at the very moment of making these professions, to overlook the chiefest Christian doctrine, inasmuch as they imputed intentions, and ascribed motives to an intelligent and upright race of men, with a view to fix on them deprivations, degradations, and exclusions, against which, if the suffered one-twentieth part of them in their own proper persons, they would cry out as a grievous injustice, and as the offspring of the most malignant intentions. He would send them back to their Bible, he would tell them to study it with greater advantage, and they would learn from it, that one of its great doctrines was to do unto others as they would be done unto. Those who opposed this Bill were hound to show, that mischief to the State would ensue from removing the disqualifications, which, as the general rule, were, by the Constitution, not to be imposed on any class without some great necessity. Much reliance had been placed on the doctrines, that Parliament was exclusively Christian; he denied that there was any foundation for making that assertion. He wished to know in which of our great Constitutional Authorities, that far-famed doctrine was laid down? If he had found it, he would not be contented with any authorities; he would have gone to the foundation of the doctrine itself; and if he had found, that the doctrine was productive of evil, or produced injustice to any class of men, he would have been one of the first to erase such a law from the Statute-book. The complaint was, that the Jews were unsocial; and were they to be made butter by being kept excluded from society? He could not anticipate any of those great evils which had been mentioned as likely to result from qualifying Jews to sit in that House. It was a matter which he thought might be fairly left to the discrimination of electors, who would not fail to select the most competent individuals. He really thought the electors did not require the nursing care of the hon. Baronet. In a politico-economical point of view, it was a great folly to limit the market for virtue
 58
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that no inconvenience could result in this case from the postponement of the remedy; and that the recommendation of a Select Committee could not increase the certainty of that law, the uncertainty of which was now matter of complaint. The present Government, as the originators of the Reform Act, were pledged to introduce every practical remedy for established defects; and he apprehended, that next Session would be sufficiently early for the purpose,
 Mr. Finn  defied the hon. Member to show that our Saviour had intended to leave any stigma on the Jews. It would be well if those who talked of Christianity practised charity, which was torn up by the roots by persons who called themselves Christians. The proof lay on those who opposed the introduction of the Jews into the House.
 Mr. Tooke , in replying, observed, that he should perhaps have been content to accept the pledge of his Majesty's Ministers, but that the events of this Session had greatly impaired his confidence in them, for in fact they had originated nothing, and thwarted every thing, that promised further Reform. He had entered the House with greater buoyancy of expectation than his age might justify, but his soul now sickened at time misspent and duties unperformed. Ministers had not redeemed any one pledge they had given, they claimed much merit for obtaining the Reform Bill, by which, however, hitherto they had been the only gainers, and now they even refused the opportunity of amending the provisions of that Act, though they fully admitted its numerous imperfections; with wonted inconsistency they alleged the great labour of the undertaking, and yet would defer the period of commencing it to their more convenient season, and rejected the proffered aid of a Committee. Not a shadow of an argument had been adduced against his Motion, he had established the fact, that many technical errors existed in the Act, and as by a singular coincidence they had this day balloted for the last Election Committee arising out of the general election, ample means and time would be afforded for benefitting by the decisions of all the Election Committees of the Session, no less than by the evidence of the conflicting determinations of the Revising Barristers and Returning Officers.
 Mr. Tooke , in conformity with a notice some time since given, moved for the appointment of a Select Committee, to consider of such Amendments in the Reform Act as, with reference to the contradictory decisions it had given rise to, might improve the machinery and facilitate the future working of that measure. The limit which he had prescribed to himself as to the nature of the Amendments being altogether confined to mere practical improvements in the working machinery of the Bill, without at all infringing on its principle, would divest the subject of any peculiar claim to the attention of Members, but that they were all interested, whatever might be their party or political views, in being spared at any future election much unnecessary trouble uncertainty, and expense. Feeling all gratitude to the original framers and promoters of the Reform Act, he must nevertheless say, that it necessarily happened that in the fierce collision which took place during its progress, opportunity could not be afforded for giving it the full benefit of deliberate arrangement in all its details; the great principle attained, the minor mechanism was to a certain extent sacrificed to that paramount object of solicitude. The experience of the late elections while it fully justified the general sufficiency of the Act, developed at the same time some of its imperfections. These together with the questions elicited in the course of the Election Committees during this Session, had afforded ample materials for the Amendments proposed, in addition to which, many valuable suggestions had been received from several of the revising barristers; still, however, comprising mere practical points, wholly divested of speculative improvements. He was happy to observe, for the credit of the Act, that the obvious and apparently undebateable Amendments were but few in number and simple in remedy, and might be comprised under the following heads, chiefly applying to borough elections—namely, to allow of
 37 s. 38
 The Solicitor General  admitted, that it might be found necessary to facilitate the working of the Reform Bill, but he contended that this was not the proper time, and the mode proposed was not the proper mode of effecting that object. He had himself made a register of the disputed points which had arisen, which he should use in good time, and he acknowledged that it would be extremely desirable that many of those points should be settled before a dissolution. He was not aware, however, that there was any immediate prospect of a dissolution, nor did he believe it was much desired. If a Committee were appointed, such as that proposed by the hon. member for Truro, every member on the Committee would have his own plan of Amendment, and he very much feared that the alterations suggested would only serve to increase confusion. At all events, he thought they should wait and have the experience of another registration.
 The Solicitor General  said, if the hon. member for Dublin thought that this matter could be so easily settled, why did he not himself bring in a bill to settle it His opinion was, that the House ought not to resort to hasty legislation upon such a subject, inasmuch as nothing was so prejudicial as the unnecessary multiplication of Acts of Parliament. It was not a sufficient reason to introduce a new Reform Bill merely because there had been conflicting decisions upon the construction of the present Bill. He thought, that when a Bill was brought in to remedy the anomalies in the working of the Reform Bill, it should, after the second reading, be referred to a Committee up-stairs, in order that they might hear the opinions on it of the different Revising Barristers.
 The Solicitor General  assured the House, that Government had paid the deepest attention to every suggestion that had been thrown out for the improvement of the Bill. Every proposed Amendment had received due consideration. Ministers wished to do every thing that would be conducive to the public benefit; and they hoped that they would be able, in the next Session of Parliament, to bring forward such Amendments as would give general satisfaction.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that as a Revising Barrister he had been compelled, contrary to his conscience, and contrary to his conviction, to keep upon the Register votes, which of his personal knowledge he knew to be bad, merely because they were not objected to. He thought, that a Committee might make a report on this subject in a few days, for he was certain that the Revising Barristers, who had most of them been extravagantly paid, would have no objection to return forthwith a written statement of the difficulties which they had encountered in forming the electoral lists throughout the country.
 Mr. Jervis  seconded the Amendment, and adverted to the practical defects in the working of the Reform Act, as regarded the duties of the Revising Barristers. He contended that some method should be adopted to ascertain how the measure had operated in different parts of the country.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  said, that if the Bill now before the House were permitted to pass into a law, the Legislature would no longer deserve the name of Christians. He should oppose the measure for the removal of the disabilities of Jews, whose case bore no analogy, as had been argued, to that of Roman Catholics. The Roman Catholics though many errors might have crept into their Church, were Christians, and he believed, that among them there were as many pious and conscientious communicants as belonged to any other Christian body or sect. Any concessions which had been made to the Roman Catholics afforded no precedent for putting upon the same par with them a class of men who blasphemed the sacred name of Jesus. [Cries of " No, no. 57
 Sir Robert Inglis  opposed the Motion. This subject was one of the greatest importance, and he believed there was none against which an appeal could be made to the country with more certainty of success; but that was not the way in which he wished to see this or any other great question decided. He would oppose it in every stage, because he looked upon it as bad in principle and pregnant with the worst consequences. The question reduced itself to this: was the supreme legislative authority of the country to be Christian, professing one common faith and one common hope, or was it to consist of those who denied Christianity, who regarded the Christ himself and the most sacred characters of our religion as blasphemers, as idolaters, as persons hateful to God and accursed among men? The present was not a light or trivial question, and he regretted that none of his Majesty's Ministers were present, with the exception of the right hon. President of the Board of Control, who probably attended because the subject had been brought forward by his right hon. relative. In his opinion, the members of the Government should have been in their places, and if they were not prepared to take a decided course in relation to a bill so important, they ought, at least, to condescend to listen to what could be urged on the question. He was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Robert Grant) had not proposed the second reading in a speech to which he might have replied; but as that had not been done, it only remained for him to answer some of the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman on a former evening. On
 48 quasi 49 50 auto da fe. 51
 Captain Elliott , after pointing out the inconveniences and in some instances, the danger incurred by the employment of hired packets, declared that the ten-gun brigs now employed in the packet service were much less frequently lost than was, generally supposed. During several years, only six King's packets had been lost, and those in voyages more dangerous than any in which the hired packets had been employed, whilst the loss of the latter had averaged about two per annum. One King's
 63
 Mr. Rolfe  presented a Petition from Falmouth against the substitution of ten-gun brigs for Falmouth packets in the service of the Post Office.
 Mr. Clay  presented a petition signed by 706 ship-sawyers, employed on the River Thames, complaining of the state of business, arising chiefly in consequence of the various Acts of the Legislature, relating to navigation and the British shipping. The petitioners prayed for a general revision of these Acts; but whether that would restore to the petitioners their lost employment, he was not prepared to say. Of his own knowledge, however, he could declare, that no commercial distress was equal to that experienced by the shipping interest of the port of London; nor did he see any chance of amelioration, for nothing could be more gloomy than the present prospect of the commerce of the port of London, which had been supported, as it were, by four great branches of trade. Of these, the silk manufactures of Bethnal-Green had not only to contend with those of France, but those of Manchester. The East-India trade, it was presumed, would no longer be confined to London, but would be distributed among the outports also; and whatever the general
 64
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that the question was not as to the conduct of the late member for Hertford, but whether the electors of that borough generally had abused the trust reposed in them to such an extent as to call for the adoption of strong measures, and justify the House in making an alteration in the constituency. Bribery was a serious offence by Statute and Common Law, both in the receiver and giver; but to constitute the offence, the money must be given in consideration of a vote; and if the consideration were not proved, a general giving of money or clothes, as in the present case, was not bribery. Then as to treating, that was an offence only in the person who treated—voters were not punishable for it. In former cases (such as those of New Shoreham, Grampound, Aylesbury, and East Retford), where the House had interfered, it was invariably on the ground that bribery to a great extent, generally embracing a majority of the electors, had existed; but in the present instance there was not evidence of direct bribery in more than eleven or twelve cases (the number was certainly under twenty) out of 600 voters. He maintained, that that was not an extent of corruption sufficient to justify the interference now called for. And as to treating, to which he had already alluded, if the principle were pushed as far as it would go, and to the extent proposed, any Member might be unseated, and the issue of a writ suspended for any place in the kingdom. There was nothing illegal in a gentleman who had been elected in November, going down to the place he represented in January and making a distribution of money, provided he had not procured votes by a promise of such distribution, and provided there had been no previous understanding on the subject. There might be reasons for altering the law in this respect, but the House had now to do with the law as it stood, and must act upon it. In conclusion, he again expressed his opinion, that no case had been made out against the borough sufficient to justify the suspension of the writ.
 The Attorney General , considering the important nature of the subject, the grave
 84 85
 The Earl of Kerry  would not have addressed the House but that the Resolution of the Select Committee of which he had the honour to form a part had been alluded to, and a complaint had been made that the evidence had not been a sufficiently long time before the House in order to come to a proper adjudication or decision upon the Resolution which had been submitted for adoption by the hon. and learned member for Rochester. Neither the Resolution of the Committee, nor that proposed, involved the question of the disfranchisement of the borough of Hertford, as had been assumed by the hon. member for Bradford and other Members, but sought a further inquiry only. The evidence had already been upward of six weeks on the Table of the House, and the objection on that head was therefore ill founded; neither had he anticipated any opposition to the Resolution before the House on the ground of expediency. In allusion to what had fallen from the noble Lord, the member for Monmouthshire, he must observe, that if such a case as that which he had stated had occurred in a county, the House would not proceed to disfranchise that county, but would adopt such measures as might seem meet for the regulation of its constituency.
 Colonel Evans  observed, that the object of the hon. Member was to extend the constituency, by taking in a district extending two and a half miles beyond the present limits of the borough, and he expected to obtain the desired purity in the elections by this extension of the constituency. The hon. Member seemed to rest his whole case upon this, arguing that no act of bribery had been alleged to have taken place in the county. He (Colonel Evans), for his part, could not conceive how extending the constituency would produce purity of election. He saw no real and effective remedy for corrupt practices but the ballot; and he, therefore, thought they had now a very fine opportunity to try the question of the ballot. He should, therefore, move, as an Amendment, that "gross bribery and treating having prevailed during the last election for the borough of Hertford, it is expedient, with a view to the better management of the election for the same, that the members to represent that borough should in future be elected by ballot."
 Mr. Kemyss Tynte  observed, that he had not always been a friend to the ballot; but he confessed that the circumstances of his sitting, as a member of the Committee on the Hertford election had decided his opinion upon the subject; and he should support any measure for introducing it. If his gallant friend divided the House, he should feel bound to support him.
 Mr. Edward Stanley  said, it was very probable, that the ballot might turn out to be one of the modes for effecting the objects which they had in view; but he thought it would be better to leave it to
 95 experimentum in corpore vili
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he wished his hon. and gallant friend (Colonel Evans) to consider whether his Motion would not tend to defeat his own object. He was quite aware of the paramount importance of the ballot; but he thought its effects, in a small constituency, would afford a less favourable opportunity of tracing its operation than that which would be afforded if the constituency were extended. The only fruits which they could anticipate from the introduction of the Ballot into a borough in which such miserably low and depraved corruption had prevailed, would be, the return of some hon. Member by means of Twaddle, Dack, or some other person bribing the whole of the electors. He hoped, therefore, that his hon. and gallant friend would allow the Committee to be appointed, and the constituency to be enlarged. He might then move the introduction of the Vote by Ballot, when he should certainly command one vote at least in favour of it. For these reasons, he would respectfully implore his hon. and gallant friend to withdraw his Motion.
 Colonel Evans  said, the hon. and learned member for Dublin contended, that his proceeding on the present occasion tended to defeat his own object. He (Colonel Evans) was of opinion, that the Vote by Ballot would secure purity of election, even if the borough of Hertford were to continue to be a small borough. His object, however, was not confined to the borough of Hertford. His object was in this case to endeavour to gain a great principle. He, therefore, differed from his hon. and learned friend in this respect. Ac the same time, if it should appear to be the opinion of the House that he ought to pursue a different course, he had no objection to shape his Amendment as a recommendation to the Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, if the hon. Member's Amendment succeeded, it was plain that there would be no Committee.
 Colonel Evans  withdrew his Motion, and the Committee was appointed, and the issue of the writ suspended till July 1st.
 Mr. O'Connell  Said, he had a similar case to bring forward—that of the borough of Carrickfergus, the time for not issuing the writ for which expired that day. He would beg that the Report of the 15th of April be read, which was done as follows:—'That the most gross and scandalous bribery appears to have prevailed on both sides at the late election for the town and county of the town of Carrickfergus; and that, although it does not appear that Conway Richard Dobbs, Esq., did personally take any part in such bribery, yet that his return was procured by his agents and friends by bribery; that a great proportion of the constituency, composed of freemen of the corporation, have been influenced solely by bribery in giving their votes at the late election; and it appears to the Committee, that similar corrupt practices have prevailed at former elections for the said town and county of the town of Carrickfergus.' The hon. Member then proceeded; it was his intention to comprise what he had to say in the shortest possible compass. His purpose was, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the total disfranchisement of the borough of Carrickfergus. If it were possible to bring the whole evidence before the House, he entertained no doubt of his being able to induce them to permit him to bring in the Bill which he proposed. The county of Antrim, in which the borough of Carrickfergus was situated, returned five Members exclusive of that borough, and therefore he thought that the district in which the borough was situated was already sufficiently represented. There was another ground on which he considered it adviseable to disfranchise the borough—he meant the smallness of the constituency. It consisted of a single parish containing 8,698 inhabitants. Before the passing of the Reform Bill, the voters consisted of thirty-nine freeholders and 812 freemen; in all 851. Out of all these there were only thirteen 40 s 97 l s l l l l l l l 98 l l s l l l l 99
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  said, that in any observations which he should make on the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he would not be understood as wishing to screen those whose guilt had been most unequivocally proved; but to prevent the innocent from being visited indiscriminately with the consequences of the delinquency of the guilty. He conceived, that sufficient proofs could be adduced both from the statements of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, as well as from those parts of the evidence to which he had appealed, which he had not thought proper to read, that a case had not been made out for the disfranchisement of the town, however there might be for the disfranchisement of the freemen, against whom the bribery had been proved. The House, too, should recollect, that in dealing with those they had to do with a body of men whose practice had not only been proved to be corrupt, but whose franchise was of an evanescent value, and must end with the lives of the present electors. Was it therefore fair to inflict a permanent injury on the town for the derelictions of a body of men who could be regarded as exercising merely a temporary privilege? Besides, the hon. and learned Member himself had shown, that of the 800 freemen who enjoyed the franchise, not much more than thirty-five were freeholders, and these of the lowest class. He happened to know the localities of Carrickfergus, and he was convinced other Members in the House could attest his accuracy, when he stated that if such was the present state of the franchise, it was imperfect, and very many more of the inhabitants must be entitled to qualify than had yet claimed—in fact, that the electors were imperfectly registered. And again, what was the state of the case as to those two distinct classes of electors, the freemen, and the freeholders? Bribery
 101
 Mr. Wynn  said, there never had been a clearer case for the interference of Parliament; at the same time every facility ought to be afforded to the electors who wished to make out a case.
 Lord Granville Somerset  rose to order. He could not see in what manner these
 89
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that not merely as a legislator, but as a judge in this case, he felt it necessary to explain the reasons why he came to a different conclusion from the hon. and learned member for Rochester. He was as ready as any man to condemn treating, and any kind of corrupt practice in elections; but while he would punish the guilty in such cases, he would not include the innocent. He therefore differed from the hon. and learned Member in the view which he took of this case. He could not but complain of the course taken by the hon. and
 80 Bernal 81 l l l ex post facto locus in quo 82
 Lord John Russell ,—after the able speech which had been made by his hon. friend in opening the question which was totally unanswered, should not have thought it necessary to trouble the House, had it not been for some observations which he had recently heard. The defence which had been set up in the present case, was precisely the same as had been set up on all former charges of bribery and corruption. The right hon. Gentleman had contended that the effect of the pro-
 91 l 92
 Mr. Divett  would give the hon. Member credit for his intentions, but he felt it to be his duty to protest against his doctrines—for views more mischievous never were promulgated by any individual. He had been pleased to talk about white slavery in England. He (Mr. Divett) would deny that white slavery existed; but if it did, the hon. Member did not take the proper way of relieving it, by exciting the poor people against their rulers. The hon. Member had spoken of three great parties in that House—he might have added a fourth, as he himself constituted another, being the Ultra-Union party—a party more dangerous than either Ultra-Whig or Ultra-Tory. The hon. Member had, some days ago, reflected in very se-
 67
 Mr. Edward Stewart  said, the allegations of bribery contained in the evidence were not sufficient to induce the House to disfranchise the borough. All the precedents of disfranchisement, as, for instance, at East Retford, New Shoreham, &c., were based upon a much more extensive system of corruption than had ever been proved to exist in the borough of Hertford, At Shoreham, there were seventy voters out of 120 proved to have been bribed; at Cricklade, there were 123 out of 240; at Aylesbury, 257 out of 417; and at East Retford, every resident voter was proved to have been bribed except six, and every non-resident voter except five. No bribery had been proved at Hertford; and if the House punished the constituency of that borough, because Lord Ingestrie and Lord Mahon gave meat and drink, it would establish a new doctrine—a doctrine inconsistent with the entire previous practice of Parliament—and would do an act of great injustice, inasmuch as it would punish the constituency of Hertford for doing that which was not illegal.
 Mr. Shaw  had received a petition, and presented it to the House, from the town of Carrickfergus, most respectably and numerously signed, disclaiming, on the part of the petitioners, all participation in any system of bribery, and praying, that in any measure adopted by the House, the innocent might not be confounded with the guilty. It would be un can did not to admit, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) had made out a  prima facie
 Mr. Goulburn : You punish Hertford by throwing in the circum adjacent places.
 Mr. Goulburn  would detain the House but a very few minutes. The Resolutions of his hon. friend appeared to him highly objectionable; for the object of his hon. friend was to appoint a Committee, not to inquire into the existence of extensive bribery and corrupt treating in the borough of Hertford, but to devise means for punishing that, to the existence of which it appeared he had made up his mind, and which, he therefore assumed, the House would as readily credit, and act upon. They had before them the indictment, certainly; but was it fair to call on them to proceed to judgment, without first going through that stage, which appeared to him to be no unnecessary form—namely, an impartial trial, where the accused party would have, at least, an opportunity of defence afforded him. Allusion had been made to the case of Newry; he begged leave to read to the House the recommendation contained in the Special Report of the Committee. In the case of Newry,
 90
 Sir Henry Hardinge  denied, that sufficient time had been given to the House for the consideration of the evidence taken before the Select Committee, which had adjudicated upon the Petition complaining of the Hertford election, and of this the hon. member for Bradford (Mr. Hardy) had himself given a sufficient proof by the quotation which be had
 87 ex post facto
 Mr. Hardy  would not have troubled
 86 l l
 Mr. Mildmay  concurred in thinking that no distinction could properly be drawn between bribery and treating; the one poured into the stomach, and the other into the pocket of the individual, whose vote was the inducement. The one inducement presented itself on the wings of a bank note, and the other was conveyed through the steam of gin and tobacco. He concurred in thinking, that time sufficient had not been allowed to hon. Members to go through the evidence in the present instance, which consisted of 450 folios, but that was not to regulate the decision of the House. A Select Committee upon their oaths had reported that bribery and treating had prevailed, both previously to and during the last
 88
 Mr. Bernal , having moved, that the Special Report from the Committee upon the merits of the late Election for the Borough of Hertford be read, said, it became his duty to call the attention of the House to certain parts of the evidence contained in the Report which peremptorily required from the House a deliberate and strict opinion upon the extraordinary proceedings which were there detailed. He should not detain the House with any prefatory observations, and that he might not weary them, would point only to those parts of the case which appeared in his eyes the most tainted. In 1831, a feeling rose up in the borough of Hertford adverse to the return of Mr. Duncombe as their Representative in Parliament. A club called the Union Club was formed, and met from time to time, the object of which was to concoct plans for the return of a man of whose principles the Members might approve. It was afterwards thrown open; the only pledge required from new Members being, that they should support the man in whose interest the club might choose to embark. Soon afterwards refreshments were at every meeting distributed, and no payment whatever was required for them. Every one had what he liked, free of any expense whatever. Early in the spring a requisition from this club was forwarded to Lord Ingestrie, and in May the noble Lord consented to come forward as a candidate. He (Mr. Bernal) must here introduce the name of a Mr. George Nicholson, which would frequently be mentioned in the course of the discussion, and who was in considerable private practice as a lawyer, besides being Under Sheriff, having the good fortune to possess as a client the Marquess of Salisbury. This Gentleman, it was in evidence, being applied to for his fostering care, entered the club, and afterwards supplied it with money. It was also in evidence that there had been serious disputes among the leading members of the club, on account of the complaints of Nicholson, as to the great expense incurred by the Members; and in some cases he must admit this gentleman had refused to pay those expenses.
 69 s d s l 70 l s d l s d s s A noble Lord dissented from this statement s l 71 l l l l l l l 72 l l l Hon. Member l l 73 l 74 l l l l s l 75 l l l l 76 l s l l l l l l l l l l 77 l l l s 78 79
 Mr. Bernal : His right hon. friend had also referred to Newry—but what had Newry to do with this case? The Committee had decided on the present course, and he thought the Members had done their duty; and he was doing his in carrying their recommendation into effect. He, of course, did not mean to intimate that the members of the Newry Committee had not also done their duty. Allusions had been made to the cases of East Retford and Penryn, but they were not analogous, for there the proposition was to take away the franchise altogether, and transfer it to other places, whereas it was proposed to incorporate other districts with the borough of Hertford. It had also been asked why he had not brought in a bill in the first instance, but considering the number of populous circum-adjacent places in the district of Hertford, he felt it more advisable that it should be dealt with by a Committee. It had been erroneously stated, that the Reform Bill had already extended the limits of the borough of Hertford to a radius of ten miles [" No, a circumference
 Mr. Bernal  moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider and report upon the best means of preventing bribery and corrupt practices at all future elections for the borough of Hertford."
 Mr. Bernal  replied: It was his perfect conviction that the state of the borough of Hertford was one of complete corruption. Out of the 2,500 l teste l 93
 Mr. Wason  could not make any distinction between treating and bribery, indeed he regarded the first as a worse offence than the latter. It was clear that treating had prevailed in Hertford anterior to the last election, and the simple question was, what would be the best remedy for the prevention of those scenes which had attended the late contest for that borough? With a view to attain that remedy he should support the Resolution.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented a Petition from the Birmingham Political Associations. Those petitioners related the injuries which had been inflicted upon that unhappy country, Poland, and deprecated the apathy of this country, while the struggles were going on. The petitioners pointed out the benefits which would result from a reinstatement of the kingdom of Poland to this country, particularly in an extension of their trade in British manufactures, and prayed the House to address his Majesty, beseeching him to co-operate with France and Austria in restoring Poland to the state of independence in which she was, prior to her partition in 1772. The hon. Member said, he thought that Russia had, by her tyrannic conduct, laid herself open to the indignation and military attack of all the civilized Powers of Europe, and that it was the bounden duty of all the European Powers to see justice done to Poland. Two years ago, if this country held up its finger, Poland would have been saved; and six months ago, if it had held up its finger, Constantinople would have been saved too; but now it might cost hundreds of millions to save Constantinople, unless,
 66
 Mr. Attwood  replied, that he had stated nothing on his own knowledge, but on the assertions of a petitioner who informed the House that those Banks cost the country 27,000 l l
 Mr. Spring Rice  positively denied the statements of the hon. Member. Those institutions had been most beneficial to the country generally.
 Mr. William Roche , on presenting five Petitions from the Wesleyan Methodists of Limerick, and its neighbourhood, against the Negro Slavery said:—The five petitions which I hold in my hand, and shall beg leave to lay on the Table of the House, came from the city and vicinity of the city (Limerick) which I have the honour to represent, and relate to the unchristian, the inhuman, and unnatural practice of Negro Slavery in the British Colonies, the injustice and horrors of which are depicted by petitioners in terms no less lively, no less creditable to them, than unfortunately and painfully true—Sir, when I inform the House that these petitions emanate from a most respectable portion of the members of the "Wesleyan Communion," I am sure it will confer upon them a weight which their opinions and feelings, pre-eminently on this subject, stand so deservedly entitled to; for no class of society has done more or suffered more in their benign and Christian-like zeal, to rescue the character of this country from so foul a stain, or in their endeavours to mitigate its various evils both physical and moral, during its disgraceful existence; an existence which I am happy to think is now near very near its dissolution for ever. I shall not detain the House any longer than to express my entire concurrence in the views and wishes of the petitioners, and
 68
 The Speaker  said, that he took it for granted that the hon. Member would bring his observations to bear upon the Motion before the House, and that he meant to make some proposition for the consideration of the House.
 The Speaker  begged to remind the hon. Member of the terms of the Resolution which had been proposed, which was, that the bribery and treating which prevailed at and previous to the late election for the borough of Hertford, deserved the serious consideration of the House.
 Mr. Pollock  said, that if reference were made to the Report before the House, it would be seen, that the Resolution to which the Committee had come was at least premature, if not absolutely unjust. The Report did not implicate the sitting Members, and it would have been fully justified if a single instance of bribery and treating had been proved previously to, or during the election. All that the Report of the Committee said was, that it appeared to them that bribery and treating did prevail during that period. Why did it say it appeared to them? Because it was not before the Committee to decide whether bribery and corruption prevailed or not. He, for one, did not know until this night what Resolution the hon. Member who had been Chairman of the Committee intended to move upon this subject, and he thought, taking into account the body of evidence contained in the Report of the Committee, that hon. Members should be allowed time for consideration before they were called upon to come to a decision upon the matter. It was impossible for them at once to travel through 450 pages of evidence; and it was only fair, that they should know some time beforehand the scope of the hon. Member's Resolutions, and the extent to which he would go in any measure he might propose to the House. If the hon. Member would bring forward any general measure, the object of which would be to prevent the recurrence of scenes of this kind in every other place hereafter, he (Mr. Pollock) was prepared fully to go with him to that extent; but the House should not come to a resolution that bribery and treating had prevailed in this particular instance, without hearing the parties accused in their defence. The statement of the Committee merely went to show, that bribery and treating appeared to have prevailed—it did not state that it had prevailed. If bribery did prevail, why did not the hon. Member bring in a Bill at once to disfranchise the borough; and where was the necessity of appointing a Select Committee to tell them that it had prevailed? He would put it to the House, whether there was enough in the evidence contained in the Report of the Committee to call for legislative interference to disfranchise this borough?
 Mr. Ward  conceived that the facts to which he had alluded called for serious consideration. It had appeared, that the Mayor of Hertford had given a plot of ground for a gang of gipsies, whose business during the election was intimidation, to encamp.
 Mr. Ward  supported the Resolution. He had received a petition upon the subject, signed by 162 most respectable inhabitants of Hertford, which afforded a fair criterion of the feeling in that borough in favour of an inquiry into its present state. Many of the petitioners had not voted at all, and the others were constituted of both the conflicting parties. There was, however, another feature in the case to which he felt bound to allude—namely, the system of intimidation which had been practised and still continued. It had been hoped that with the election the intimidation by a gang of bullies (a name familiar to the Members who had composed the Committee) would terminate; but it had continued and was daily practised; the same gang of bullies still mustered to the sounds of the bugleman, also well known in the Hertford contest. Individuals of the gang had been brought before the Municipal Magistrates of the borough for assaults, and one had been discharged, and the other merely held to bail on his own recognizance of 5 l
 Mr. Ward  still contended that the facts he was prepared to state, and which were vouched by affidavits now in his hand, were fit subject matter for inquiry. He should avail himself of the earliest opportunity of bringing the subject before the House. With reference to the Resolution, he should give it his support, at the same time protesting against the total disfranchisement of the borough of Hertford, which contained many respectable persons of all parties.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  contended, that no evidence had been adduced to prove bribery. It was true that it appeared that a man of the name of Peter went on St. Crispin's-day and asked Mr. Longmore for half-a-crown, and received 5 s
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that he had been intrusted with a petition from the guild of fishermen of Carrickfergus, stating, that they were not bribed at the last election, and that an attempt having been made to bribe them which they resisted, and then having voted contrary to the wishes of one of the parties, a conspiracy was formed to deprive them of their hereditary rights. They claimed the privilege of being heard in that House before rights were taken from them. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that the county of Antrim already possessed five Members, and he insinuated, that he thought that more than its share. The House, however, ought to recollect, that Belfast, the greatest commercial town in Ireland, was situated in that county, and that the county of Antrim itself was the seat of the only manufacture which Ireland could now boast of. No person could reprobate the practice of bribery more than he did; he would say, that the House was bound to put a stop to it. He trusted, however, that the displeasure of the House would fall equally upon the bribers and the bribed, and that whatever means might be taken to punish the guilty, the innocent portion of the constituency would not suffer. The hon. and learned Gentleman had drawn a very glowing picture of the baneful effects
 100
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that he could not permit that occasion to pass without stating, that the circumstances that occurred in Carrickfergus, were without the knowledge or consent of the late Member, Mr. Dobbs. It was clearly proved in the face of the evidence, that such was the
 102
 Mr. Clay  observed, that the whole speech of the noble Lord went to this point—namely, whether the decision of the Committee, which had inquired into the Hertford Election, was right or wrong? Now he, looking at the whole of the evidence, was of opinion that the decision of the Committee was a right and just decision. This must, he conceived, be quite evident to any one who took the trouble of analyzing the evidence. The unworthy conduct which was pursued by many of those who were connected with the election, precluded the House from passing lightly over this transaction. They would not be doing their duty if they did not, in strong terms, express their sentiments on this occasion. Looking to the evidence, what did he find proved? Why, that in the last three or four elections, out of 650 voters, not less than from 300 to 400 received polling-money—that was, 1 l primâ facie 83
 Lord Althorp  said, that after the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, there was not a Member who could not think that it was right a bill ought to be introduced. According to that statement, the bribery was so general, that it was difficult to make any distinction as to any part of the constituency; but in giving his hearty consent to the bringing in the Bill, he reserved to himself the right, if he found any one class sufficient to form a constituency which had not been bribed, to prefer a partial to a total disfranchisement.
 Mr. Ruthven  expressed his strong acquiescence in the prayer of the petition. He thought the protection of the rich, as well
 109
 Mr. Fergus O' Connor  was convinced, that when English gentlemen came to consider the question calmly, they would come to the conclusion, that it was not an Irish question merely, but a national question. He deprecated the delay caused by the appointment of the Royal Commission of Inquiry, as it was on record that the Irish poor at present, in many places, were starving. He had given notice of a Motion for the 15th of June, which he would persevere in. His object in that Motion would be, to classify the parties requiring relief into the able-bodied and healthy, and the weak, infirm, decrepit, and others. The thing brooked no delay, and no delay should it have at his hands.
 Mr. Stanley  in explanation said, that what he had stated was, that there was no limitation to the authority of Parliament, but that which Parliament had itself imposed. With respect to the internal taxation of the colonies, Parliament had imposed certain restraints on itself, when the power of internal taxation was vested in the Colonial Legislatures.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that although he had the honour of addressing the House on a recent occasion at considerable length in relation to this subject, and although he could very sincerely promise the Committee, that it was not his intention again to trespass on its patience to such an extent as was then necessary; still, after the speech just delivered by the hon. Baronet, he felt it to be his duty to take the earliest opportunity of offering an immediate explanation of his sentiments and a reply to the charges of the hon. Baronet, in doing which he should endeavour to preserve that course of observation by means of which he had flattered himself, up to the delivery of the hon. Baronet's speech, not only that he had avoided but that it was generally admitted he had refrained from all topics calculated to produce feelings of acrimony and irritation. He assured the Committee that he should, as far as possible, studiously abstain from dropping a single word likely to give offence to any individual or body of men. He had hoped, that he had been able to follow up that inoffensive line of conduct on a former occasion, and it was a subject of regret to him if he should be thought to have deviated from it in the manner alleged by the hon. Baronet. Never had any charge come with so bad a grace from an individual, followed up as it was by the extraordinary speech of the hon. Baronet, who prefaced his address by a declaration that he should avoid those topics of irritation which the hon. Baronet accused him of resorting to, and then introduced every available subject and topic calculated to rouse angry feelings. The question of Reform—the address of the Legislative
 133 134 135 136 137 l l 138 139 l 140 s s 141
 Mr. Stanley  felt called upon to offer some observations to the House in reply to the observatious of the boa. Baronet, but he submitted to the House whether it would not be more convenient to do so in Committee; and with that view he suggested the propriety of entering at once upon the Committee, and then continuing the discussion.
 Colonel Leith Hay  said, it must be admitted that this was a most important question, leading in its results to consequences more serious to the colonies than any measure which had been brought forward since the dispute with the American colonies; and, he certainly should not have trespassed upon the attention of the House, had he not been able to speak from personal observation of the condition of the
 142 143 l l 144
 Mr. Goulburn  presented a Petition agreed to at a Meeting in the City of London. It was signed by 1,800 persons, all of them of the highest respectability. They were composed of bankers, merchants, and others holding West-India property; and their opinions, though expressed with force and freedom, were couched in language not at all calculated to excite the slightest degree of irritation. They prayed to be heard at the Bar of the House by Counsel against this measure, which they thought was conducted without a due regard to existing institutions, and which would, if carried into effect, produce the ruin of those extensive interests that were now connected with the colonies. The petitioners stated, that the improvement of the colonies of this country had always been an object of the greatest importance to this House, and on this point they only echoed the sentiments of the best and wisest statesmen, who had, at all times, maintained in Parliament the advantages of our colonial empire; and they did but repeat the declarations of our enemies, who, in time of war, had ever made the destruction of our colonial empire the first and greatest object of their ambition—in protesting against any proceeding which might have the effect of diminishing our colonial possessions, the petitioners only stated the language of treaties in which we had declared that we had added to the extent of our colonial empire, for the purposes of encouraging the domestic industry, promoting
 111 l 112
 Mr. Richards  supported the prayer of the petition, and observed, that he should wish to know, were the Noble Lord who appointed the Royal Commission to inquire into the state of the Irish Poor present, what the Commissioners were doing to further the object for which they were appointed? There were sinister rumours abroad, that the appointment of the Commission was but a way of getting rid of the question altogether.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, he felt himself placed in a very unpleasant dilemma upon the question then before the House. The duty which he owed to that House and to the colonies called upon him to declare un reservedly his opinion, although in giving that opinion he might wound the feelings of friends, and of individuals for whom he entertained the highest personal respect. At the outset he must express his regret at the tone of the speech with which his right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley) had ushered in the question of Emancipation. With great reluctance, indeed, did he come forward publicly to cast any blame upon his right hon. friend, of whose character and talents he had the highest opinion. If, however, his right hon. friend had dealt with this important subject in a milder tone, acting more as a mediator than as a partisan, he would have done great good, instead of doing as he feared his right hon. friend had done, great and irreparable mischief. It was, he confessed, inexplicable to him, how, after the severe trials to which the planters had latterly been subjected, his right hon. friend could have made up his mind to come forward and deliberately bear with so heavy a hand upon them, as he had done in his late speech, identifying himself with a party whose irresponsible precipitancy he had always considered it was the duty of the Colonial Secretary to modify and temper. He was reluctant to speak thus, but the fearful measure of his right hon. friend having gone out to the Colonies, with the fearful speech with which he introduced it, he felt that he should abandon his duty as a Member of that House if he did not sacrifice all considerations of friendship, and speak out his unqualified disapprobation both of the measure and of the speech of his right hon. friend. If the right hon. Gentleman doubted the tendency of his able and most ingenious speech in other respects, he would refer him to the hon. member for Weymouth, and the hon. and learned member
 145 * * 146 147 l 148 l 149 "By returns on oath given in to the Court of Policy for the purpose of taxation, the quantity of produce made during the periods mentioned, was in the first (1823, 1824, and 1825)— 
 
 231 478, 633 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Sugar 
 17,779,473 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Coffee 
 6,808,913 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Cotton 
 In the second (1826, 1827, 1828), 
 239,556,976 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Sugar 
 13,897,083 lbs. (Dutch weight) of Coffee 
 7,389,373 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Cotton 
 In the third (1829, 1830, and 1831), 
 262,709,559 lbs., (Dutch weight) of Sugar 
 7,059,431 lbs. (Dutch weight) of Coffee 
 2,252,557 lbs. (Dutch weight) of Cotton
 Mr. Bernal  read the first Resolution— "That it is the opinion of this Committee that immediate and effectual measures be taken for the entire abolition of slavery throughout the colonies, under such provisions for regulating the condition of the negroes as may combine their welfare with the interests of the proprietors."
 Mr. Slaney  concurred with the hon. Member for the county of Cork as to the necessity of taking some steps; but he could not agree with him as to the unimportance of the Royal Commission, which had been appointed to inquire into the state of the country.
 Mr. Powell Buxton  admitted the sincerity, and the great power and good humour with which his hon. friend, who had just sat down, had so ably advocated the cause of the West Indians. The hon. Member had chiefly replied to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State, and he was sorry to say, that with the latter part of that speech be did not agree. But he must call on the House to look at facts which were uncontradicted, and defied contradiction. He could not but advert with gratification to the speeches both of the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord (Howick); for in them he found complete justification of all the opinions he bad ever entertained, and of the course he had pursued. His motives for bringing forward the subject had been impugned; he had been assailed by all kinds of vituperative epithets; and should he be again assailed by them, be would point to the speeches of the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman as a complete justification. Now no longer would the advocates of slavery be stigmatized by the grossest epithets which could be extracted from the vocabulary of abuse. The noble Lord (Howick) had afforded the most substantial proof of the sincerity of his opinions on the subject of slavery by his resignation of office—opinions which it bad been stated had been first implanted in his mind by him (Mr. Buxton). He could not, however, lay claim to this honour, though perhaps he might have had reason to be proud of so apt and able a pupil, for never had he had the honour of one moment's conference with that noble Lord before he brought forward the proposition which had redounded so much to his credit. The right hon. Gentleman also was a convert; but a convert to facts, and not to any influence. His hon. friend bad dwelt much on the state of the population of the West Indies; he would not answer that part of his hon. friend's statement, because he knew it was impossible to carry a long array of figures in the head, and be bad already forgotten those of his hon. friend. When he had been about to make such a statement, be had submitted it a week before making it to the House, to his hon. friend; and his hon. friend should have answered then if he could. His hon. friend bad not, on this occasion, conferred a similar favour on him, and he, therefore, was not prepared to answer his hon. friend statements. It
 158 159 160 161 162 163
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that he had upwards of forty petitions to present from as many places, all of which were directly opposed to the prayer of the petitions just now laid on the Table. He should not at that moment say more upon the subject of these petitions than that the persons who sent them to that House could not bring themselves to think, that men and women could be legal chattles, but must believe, that they, though of a different colour, were entitled to the same rights as the rest of their species.
 Mr. Finn  said, that whatever system of Poor laws, however perfect, was devised, it would ultimately be perverted into a job, and the poor deprived of their support to enrich a few unprincipled individuals. Employment of the poor was all that was required; and something certainly should be done to obtain that at once. But as the representative of the poor, as the friend of the poor, and as an individual who had their interests at heart, as much as any man in that House, he would resist the introduction of any system of English Poor laws into Ireland.
 Mr. James  presented a Petition from the Select Vestry of Carlisle, praying for a system of Poor Laws for Ireland. The petitioners complained, that the emigrant Irish poor superseded the native labourers of the place; that wages were consequently depressed; and that English labourers were thus in many cases thrown on their several parishes. They also complained of the great burthen the Irish poor were to those parishes, as they had often to expend large sums on them under the name of casual relief. The hon. Member instanced another case of grievance—a poor Irishman marries an English woman, who derives a settlement from her father; he becomes unable to support her; the parish gives him nothing while he remains with her and his family by her; he goes off; she is then cast on the parish, which is then compelled to relieve her and her children. If ever the husband returns, he is arrested and imprisoned; and thus the parish is put to an additional expense, and the poor fellow is degraded for ever in his own estimation by association with felons in gaol, and all for the simple crime of poverty. The hon. Member concluded by asserting the necessity of Poor Laws for Ireland.
 Mr. Ward  supported the plan proposed by his Majesty's Ministers, and illustrated the probability of its success, by a reference to. Spanish America. In Guatemala and Mexico: especially, the colonial produce was very considerable, and yet there were no slaves. The whole was the result of free labour. Before the revolution, planters, finding the expense of importing slaves to be very great, had encouraged marriages between the slaves already in their possession, and the native women; and had, in most instances, consulted their comfort and advantage. The consequence was, that when the revolution broke out, the negroes adhered as free labourers to their masters. The whole of the regulations respecting them were, under the superintendence of district, Magistrates; and, although they were, of course, not the most intelligent of human, beings, they had no difficulty in deciding the points brought before them. The cost of production in Mexico was even
 164 165 adscripti glebœ 166
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said that, of all the questions that could be brought under the consideration of the House, none were of a more difficult nature than those in which strong opinions, partly of a religious description, and partly founded on a philosophic view of the dignity of the human species, came into contact with deep convictions of the ruin and degradation which their enactment would cause to both property and persons. Of that class was the discussion into which the House was about to enter. On the one side were ranged persons connected with the subject by religious opinions, who for many years had been in pursuit of an object which they deemed of importance to human nature; while on the other were to be found individuals who, themselves deeply involved in the settlement of the question, came forward and assured the House, that the wishes of their opponents, if carried into effect, would be attended by the ruin of themselves and their posterity. Such being the case, need he impress upon the House that there never was a debate which more required forbearance, conciliatory spirit, and and patient attention on the part of those
 113 l. l. l l 114 115 cries of "No, no" from the Treasury Benches 116 117
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  resumed. If the right hon. Gentleman supposed that internal taxation of the colonies was alone the point in which Parliament had no right to interfere, he at once disposed of his own general principle. If Parliament at its own will and pleasure, had declared that it had no right to interfere with the internal taxation of the Colonies, did the right hon. Gentleman suppose that Parliament, at its will and pleasure, could not at any time resume the other principle?
 118 119 120 121 The object of the Assembly of Jamaica in sending a Committee of their members to England was, to offer such information to Government and to Parliament as might correct their opinion of the condition of the slave population. It is the duty of the Committee, if they shall find emancipation to be the general desire of their fellow-subjects, not to oppose a resistance which is sure to be unavailing, and may be misunderstood. They are expected to make themselves acquainted with the ultimate views of the emancipationists; and if those views contemplate the dissolution of colonial society, and the demolition of property, which must be the consequence of unconditional freedom, they are instructed to demand a full compensation according to the value of property, before it was unsettled by the agitation of the question. If by emancipation is meant the substitution of a system of free labour, in the room of slavery, which shall secure to the planters the cultivation of their lands, the Committee are to require compensation equivalent to the portion of labour, of which they may be deprived, and to the risk of loss and suffering which so complete a change may bring with it. The Committee are bound to insist, that the expense of an adequate police, and all other costs of the arrangement, shall be defrayed by Government. They are also to protest, in the most de-
 122 123 124 l 125 126 Buxton 127 s l s l 128 s s l l 129 130 131 132
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  presented a Petition from a large body of persons interested in the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, and who were most anxious to be heard against its adoption. They most conscientiously believed that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman would be most injurious to the interests of the co-
 110
 Mr. Baring  said, that he fully concurred in the propriety of the course taken by the noble Lord in not calling for an immediate vote on his Resolutions, which it would be absurd to discuss without an opportunity of first hearing what the country at large thought of the plan. The late period of the Session presented an obstacle to going into so important a question with a view to its decision. The subject opened a wide field for discussion—Parliament being called on to consider, not only the nature of the bargain made with the Bank, but the whole question of the circulation. He should not attempt to follow the noble Lord in any connected series of remarks, but would content himself with throwing out such casual observations as occurred to him at the moment. The country bankers would be greatly deceived if they did not see in the noble Lord's Resolutions an attempt to get rid of their paper to a considerable extent, and substitute for it Bank of England notes. Whether that was a judicious plan or not, he did not pretend to say. However, that the principle had been favourably received by a number of country banks was clear from their present practice. Though the noble Lord deprecated the use of force towards the country bankers, he suspected that the noble Lord would not be unwilling to accelerate and extend Bank of England issues by a gentle shove, or a species of Quaker propulsion, which would effect the object the noble Lord had in view, and drive country bank paper out of circulation. He could not help again regretting that the Government, after keeping Parliament assembled for
 188 Lord Althorp 189 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 190 191 l. l. l. s. 192 193 194 l. 195
 Mr. John Smith  said, that it would be seen from the evidence given before the Bank Committee, that the Bank never was afraid of any run upon it occasioned by an unfavourable state of the exchanges, as it was well known to the Directors that that would in time right itself. In the year 1825, as his hon. friend the member for Essex was aware, the Bank of England, to its highest honour, came forward and lent its notes to the country bankers. During the run that then took place those very notes were frequently, in the course of half-an-hour after their being thus advanced, brought back to the Bank to be exchanged for specie. If the Bank of England had only to meet its own engagements, then it would have had no difficulty in doing so. The noble Lord now proposed to 'make Bank of England notes a legal tender, which would prevent, in case of a run hereafter on country banks, such a run on the Bank of England for specie, a matter of the highest importance to the tranquillity of the country, and a measure that would in all human probability, prevent the occurrence of great distress. He thought
 197
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped he might be permitted to put a question to the noble Lord upon a point which much interested a great portion of his constituents as well as Ireland generally. It was not his intention at this stage to enter into the general principles of the proposition; he was only anxious to obtain some information. The plan of the noble Lord made Bank of England notes a legal tender, and he should be glad to learn from the noble Lord if it was his intention to extend that principle to Ireland. He understood the noble Lord to intimate, that he did not contemplate any such extension, and he therefore must inquire whether, as the notes of the Bank of Ireland were not now a legal tender, the principles of the present proposition were in that respect to be extended to Ireland. His third inquiry was, whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to bring the consideration of the Bank of Ireland Charter this year before Parliament.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to remind the noble Lord, that he had not answered his inquiry as to whether it was contemplated to make Bank of Ireland notes a legal tender in Ireland.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that though he
 200 201 l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 202 l. l. l.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that admitting that the deposits constituted part of the liabilities of the Bank Directors, yet he maintained that it tended still more to decrease the circulation, and was another element of fluctuation.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  inquired from the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it was intended that the country bankers who did not issue their own paper were to be compelled to return the amount of their circulation, assets, and securities; at the same time, he begged to observe that the making a 5 1.
 Mr. Baring  remarked that the noble Lord had said, that his proposition did not extend to Scotland. From this a great evil or inconvenience would arise with respect to a legal tender, particularly on the border. This inconvenience was manifested by supposing a person living in Berwick-upon-Tweed, or upon the border, who might be compelled to receive from his English debtor that which he could not tender to his Scotch creditor.
 Colonel Davies  observed, that he was a free judge on the present question, having no recorded opinions upon it, and no interest at stake. He had no hesitation whatever, in saying, that the immediate abolition of slavery was absolutely necessary. The wishes of this country, and the situation of the colonies, imperatively demanded that it should be no longer delayed. And yet, he could not forget the tremendous difficulties which stood in the way of that abolition; difficulties involving in themselves not only the existence of the colonies, but the prosperity of this country. He could not forget that there were two parties to be considered; and that while the negroes ought to have justice done to them, the rights of their masters ought not to be neglected. Whoever had a large body of constituents must have among them many who on this subject were hurried on by an inconsiderate zeal, which, nevertheless, did credit to their hearts, although it made them dangerous guides. In his opinion, if the House were to adopt the Resolution of the hon. member for Sheffield, they would take a dangerous and impolitic step. He was anxious for the immediate abolition of slavery; but he could not shut his eyes to the danger attendant upon it. Let the House recollect the misery that had been produced by sudden emancipation at St. Domingo; misery ten thousand times greater even than that of slavery itself. He was friendly, therefore, to a course which would subject the slave to a course of probation. But while he stated this, he objected to the proposition of the right hon. Secretary of State. He thought the slave ought to have such wages as would, in a few years, enable him to purchase his emancipation. Ashe intended to take the sense of the Committee on the right hon. Gentleman's fourth Resolution, he would say a few words on the subject of it. When he considered how loudly the people of this
 236 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Forster , as a country banker, acquitted the noble Lord of any hostility to the body of which he formed a part, yet he was not sure that the noble Lord had not unwillingly been led into a scheme which had long been cherished by the Bank Directors, of monopolizing to themselves the circulation of the country. Such a measure would be most injurious. The system of country banking had its faulty parts he admitted, but taken in the
 204
 Mr. Grote  said, that as far as he could understand and follow the points of the noble Lord's plan, he was not disposed to quarrel with the principle of it, but there was one point upon which he thought that the noble Lord deviated from the principles which he laid down in the commencement of his statement—he alluded to the publicity of the issues of the Bank of England. He concurred in every word that had fallen from the noble Lord as to the extreme importance of the publicity of the Bank issues, as the best guarantee to the public for the sound management of that body. It was not that he had any reason to find fault with its management hitherto, but he saw clearly that there was no security to the public for the sound management by the Bank of the circulation of the country, and more especially for its adhering to one uniform principle, except in the publicity of its accounts. The noble Lord had laid down that principle in the most emphatic manner at the commencement of his statement, but when he came to see the mode in which the noble Lord proposed to effect that publicity, and the extent to which the noble Lord would carry it, he owned that he felt deeply and grievously disappointed. The publication of the accounts of the Bank for a quarter at the end of the quarter was not calculated to give the public a proper insight into the management of the Bank, or to operate as a check upon the Bank itself. If, however, the series of weekly averages, which were to be made up during the quarter, and which, according to the
 196
 Mr. Tancred  said, that it was with no small degree of surprise he had heard the right of the British Legislature to legislate on this subject for the colonies questioned in that House. The right of the British Legislature had repeatedly been asserted in different Statutes of the British Parliament, had been repeatedly recognized by the Colonial Legislatures, and uniformly
 224 l. 225 Les Amis des Noirs
 Mr. Buckingham  rose amidst confusion, and said, that if he had been in the habit of frequently addressing the House, or when addressing it, of trespassing on its time at any great length, there might be some reason for those symptoms of impatience; but the House, he was sure, would do him the justice to recollect, that he was the only Member who had yet proposed to limit the length of hon. Gentlemen's speeches, and bring them all within a moderate compass: and though his proposition had not been adopted, and a great waste of the public time had consequently been allowed to take place, yet he considered himself under a tacit pledge to enforce his precept by example, and to prove the sincerity of his advice by practising himself the conduct he would recommend to others. In the lateness of the hour, he should feel an additional reason for condensation and brevity; but, as he intended to touch on a branch of
 226 227 228 229 230 l. l. 231 232 233 worse 234 235
 Mr. Hume  regretted, that he felt called upon to differ from the sentiments which had been expressed by several hon. Gentlemen on this subject. He felt no hesitation in saying that to the negligence of the Bank of England was to be attributed the lamentable events resulting from the panic of 1826. At all events, he thought that those results would not have been so lamentable if proper diligence had been used. Experience had proved, certainly, that the Bank of England gave relief, but he was far from thinking, that no relief would on that occasion have been afforded but for the Bank of England; on the contrary, he was firmly of opinion that but for the mismanaged monopoly, the lamentable and eventful circumstances to which he had alluded would never have occurred, nor the severe losses then suffered have been sustained. He therefore could not but regret, that the public were again to be subjected to an extension of that monopoly for ten or eleven years longer, and he still more regretted this, because the public were not to be benefited by the renewal of the monopoly. He was aware that many hon. Gentlemen entertained an opinion that a Government bank ought not to be established, but he was of opinion that no body of individuals could manage such an establishment like the state itself, and that Government banks might be established with as able men to conduct them as at present, and with as little trouble to the Minister for the time being, as was at present experienced, and most unquestionably at a much less expense to the nation than by the monopoly and management of the Bank of England. He complained that the people were to be deprived, for a continuance, by the Bank of England of between 600,000 l. l. 199 l l.
 Mr. Godson  wished as briefly as he could, to bring the case of the West-India planters before the Committee, and he trusted the Committee would, on such a momentous subject, give him a patient hearing. He was most ready to admit that the time for emancipating the negroes had arrived—the only question was the manner and mode of doing it. This was a most important subject, implicating not only the property, but the lives of the white population of the West-India islands. Hon. Members ought to adjudicate
 205 206 207 208 arcanum imperii 209 210 211 212 213 l. l. l. l. 214 215 l. 216 217 218 219 220 221 l. 222 Question! question! s. s. s. s. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. 223 l. l. verbatim l. l.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in Scotland 1 l.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that his proposition only applied to bankers issuing their own notes; and, therefore, if a country banker did not issue notes, he could not be called upon for an account of his circulation and assets.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it appeared to him that the hon. and gallant Member had entirely misunderstood the principles upon which the Bank proposed to act, and therefore he did not wish that the impression which such a misapprehension would create should remain unanswered. It was true that the object of the Bank would be to keep in possession of bullion to the amount of one-third of their liabilities; those liabilities included their deposits as well as the circulation. The principle which the Bank Directors professed to adopt was, to keep the amount of their securities level, and the consequence was, that when bullion was drawn out of their coffers to go abroad, the effect was to diminish the amount of the circulation; while, on the other hand, when bullion came in, of course the circulation was increased; therefore, so long as the securities remained the same, a diminution of 5,000,000 l. l. 203
 Lord Althorp  replied, that it was not contemplated to interfere at present with the Charter of the Bank of Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the propositions which he had submitted to the House were intended merely to apply to England and Wales, and did not extend either to Scotland or Ireland. With regard to the question put by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, with reference to the consideration of the Charter of the Bank of Ireland, he could only say that Charier
 198
 Lord Althorp  addressed the Committee as follows:—I believe. Sir, that on former occasions of the renewal of the Bank Charter, it has been the practice of the persons who have held the situation which I now occupy, to move resolutions in consequence of a previous application from the Bank of England, for a renewal of
 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 l. 177 178 The Gazette. 179 l. 180 181 l. 182 l. l. l. l. 183 l. 184 l. s. 185 Sir Robert Peel 186 
 1.—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is expedient to continue for a limited period to the Bank of England, certain of the privileges now vested by law in that corporation, subject to such conditions as may be provided by any Act to be passed for that purpose. 2.—" That it is the opinion of this Committee, that provided the Bank of England shall be bound by law to discharge in the legal coin of the realm all such of its debts and liabilities as shall be demanded at the Bank of England, or at any of the branch banks thereof, it is expedient that the promissory notes of the said corporation be made a legal tender for all sums of 5 1. 3.—" That it is the opinion of this Committee, that provision be made by law during the present Session of Parliament, for the repayment to the Bank of England of one-fourth part of the amount of the debt now due by the public to that corporation. 4.—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the rate of allowance and remuneration now secured by law to the Bank of England for the management of the public debt, and services rendered to the public, be continued to that corporation for the limited period to be affixed as aforesaid, subject to an annual reduction of 120,000 l. 5.—" That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the laws restricting the interest of money to 5 1. 187 6.—" That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is expedient to give facilities by the grant of royal charters for the establishment of joint-stock banks, at a certain distance from London; but that every such royal charter shall contain certain stipulations to be enforced with respect to all such chartered banks. 7.—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that all banks issuing promissory notes payable on demand, shall enter into a composition in lieu of Stamp-duty, at the rate of 7 s. l. 8.—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is expedient to make provision with regard to joint-stock banking companies."
 Colonel Evans  said, that before the House resolved itself into a Committee upon the Order of the Day, he felt it his duty to put a question to the noble Lord upon the state of the kingdom of Portugal, and of the political relations between Great Britain and that country. It must be in the recollection of the House that six or seven years ago Don Miguel had rebelled against his father, the sovereign of Portugal, who had been obliged to fly for safety and to take refuge on board of an English ship of war then lying in the Tagus. In consequence of this he had been enabled to recover his power, and Don Miguel had applied for leave to go into exile to Vienna. On the death of Don John, the father of Don Miguel, the title of Don Pedro was acquiesced in by the kingdom, and to that acquiescence he believed, that no sort of disagreement was intimated by any of the powers of Europe. Don Pedro, in consequence of his situation in the Brazils, had abdicated, conditionally, his right to the succession to the throne, on the understanding that his daughter Donna Maria should succeed him. In that conditional abdication all the Powers of Europe had acquiesced, and a Regency had been established on the basis of it. One of the princesses of the royal family of Portugal had been appointed to that office, and, upon an understanding between the different Courts of Europe, Don Miguel had come over to England, and had pledged himself to support the rights of his niece and uphold the Constitution, and upon faith in those pledges he had been allowed to return to Portugal. A body of English troops was then in Lisbon, under orders to embark for England, but a private order was given to the commanding officer that, whatever might take place, under any circumstances whatever, the royal family was to be protected. Don Miguel availed himself of this, and shortly after his return, while the British troops were yet at Lisbon, he overthrew that constitution which he had so solemnly sworn to defend both in London, Vienna, and Lisbon. This conduct had been denounced by different Courts, and Don Miguel had been referred to by this Government and the past Government of England as a perjured usurper, and spoken of in every term of opprobrium. The usurpation of Don Miguel had not been acknowledged by any Power, and Donna Maria had not only been treated by the European Courts as the Queen of all Portugal  de jure de facto 304
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the inquiry before the Committee had been at the desire of the operatives, and they had wished for no concealment or secrecy. The present
 308
 Mr. O'Connell  commenced by assuring the Committee of his desire to state his sentiments with as much brevity as possible. The subject, however, on which he was about to address the Committee, was one, the importance of which it was difficult to describe, and perhaps impossible to exaggerate. They were called upon to decide between the freedom, or the continued slavery of 800,000 of their fellow-creatures. The question also embraced, in a greater or less degree, the pecuniary interests of at least 2,000,000 of the King's subjects. The House was now called upon to act under a most awful responsibility, and it therefore became a matter of the highest importance, that they should understand the precise position in which they stood, and in which the question stood at the present moment. One feature of the present state of the question was, the abolition of slavery was demanded by the almost unanimous voice of the whole country. The annals of Parliament scarcely furnished an instance in which so many petitions were presented from so many different petitioners. By the last Report of the Committee on Public Petitions, it appeared that 1,200,000 signatures had been affixed to petitions against slavery; and since that Report was made, he had no doubt that the number had been increased to a million and a half—yes, a million and
 309 310 311 Immense laughter 312 313 314 315 Cacadores 316 317
 Lord Dalmeny  said, that much as he admired the eloquence of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he could not agree with him in opinion, that immediate emancipation would be a safe or proper measure in the present state of the slaves. The hon. and learned Gentleman argued as if immediate emancipation were synonymous with the happiness and comfort of the slaves themselves, and with the prosperity of the colonies. He should as soon think of removing the shackles from all the in-
 318
 Lord Sandon  said, he had never defended the system of slavery; but, on the contrary, had always been inclined to consider the best means of getting rid of it livery Gentleman connected with the West Indies, who had spoken on the question, admitted the necessity of the emancipation of the slaves, and he thought it hardly fair, therefore, that the odium should be thrown upon them, of being entirely opposed to it. If that debate on the question had happened last year, it might perhaps be excusable that some Members should make an appeal to popular feeling; but it being now admitted that slavery must be abolished, it was not right to bring odium upon the West-India proprietors, without whose concurrence emancipation could not be effected. He believed that the cruelties and tyranny exercised towards the slaves had been much exaggerated, at the same time that he would admit that slavery was one of the deepest sources of moral degradation. He even believed that it was worse in its moral effects on the master than on the slave. That, however, was not now the question. The question was, how it could be abolished with least injury to individuals, and least danger to the State. He believed
 319 l l l l l 320 321 322 323 l l l l l l 324
 Mr. Fitzgerald  observed, that the question at the outset was whether there could or could not be property in slaves. If there was no such thing as property in man, there could be no doubt that the House was bound at once to go the length of the right hon. Secretary's Resolutions. If, on the contrary, property could exist in the labour of the negroes, the question assumed a more complex shape. It was, however, clear to him from the Statute-law, from the time of Elizabeth downwards, that the slave-trade and the right of property in slaves, were recognized by various Acts of Parliament. Such being the case, it was impossible, with any pretence of justice, to take away a species of property recognized by the Legislature, unless we consented to compensate the owners. Whatever measures were finally adopted, it was of the utmost importance that the colonists and the colonial Legislatures should cordially concur in it, otherwise it never could be rendered satisfactory and effectual.
 Lord Sandon  said, that he had forgot at the conclusion of his speech to read the Resolutions which he intended to propose as an amendment for the adoption of the Committee, and he would now take the opportunity of doing so. The noble Lord,
 325 
 "1. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that immediate and effectual measures he taken for the entire abolition of slavery throughout the colonies, under such provisions for regulating the condition of the negroes, as may combine their welfare with the interests of the proprietors. That towards the compensation of the proprietors in his Majesty's colonial possessions, his Majesty be enabled to grant to them a sum not exceeding 20,000,000 l l "2. That it is expedient that all children born after the passing of any Act of Parliament for this purpose, shall be declared free, and be subject to such temporary restrictions as may be deemed necessary and equitable, in consideration of their support and maintenance. "3. That all other persons, now slaves, be registered as apprenticed labourers, and acquire thereby all rights and privileges of freemen, subject to the restriction of labouring, under conditions, and for a time to be fixed by Parliament, for their owners. "4. That his Majesty be enabled to defray any such expense as he may incur in establishing an efficient stipendiary Magistracy and police in the colonies, and in aiding the local authorities in providing further religious and moral education of the negro population to be emancipated."
 The Chairman  intimated to the noble Lord that, as there was another Amendment already before the Committee, the noble Lord Could not move his Amendment until it was first disposed of.
 Lord Sandon  said, that after that Amendment was disposed of, he should move his Resolutions, for the purpose of having them inserted on the journals.
 Admiral Fleming  spoke as follows: Having been alluded to by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, when he so ably and clearly explained the plan now under consideration, I feel it a duty to the House to express my most perfect concurrence in the correctness of the statement the right hon.
 326 327 328 329 330
 Mr. William E. Gladstone  said, that he had to complain of the reference which the noble Lord opposite (Lord Howick) had made to an estate of his (Mr. Gladstone's) father in Demerara, called Vreeden's Hoop, in proof of a position laid down by that noble Lord, that the increase in sugar cultivation was indirect ratio with overworking and loss of life on the part of the slave population. He thought he had a right to complain of the noble Lord's bringing forward a charge of that description without any previous communication to the parties interested, while two members of the family to which it referred had seats in that House. It was a charge affecting moral character, for what man's character would not be affected if he should see, from the reports from his estate, that while the sugar cultivation was increasing his slaves were dying off in equal proportion; and if, under such circumstances, he should continue the same system of management? But he denied, that the noble Lord's statement, with regard to his father's estate, was correct. The noble Lord stated, that
 331 332 333 334 335 l 336 bonâ fide 337
 Lord Howick  wished to say a few words in explanation, after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. If the slaves to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded were in a weak state of health, how came it that they produced double the quantity of sugar produced in other islands. The Hon. Gentleman had quoted the cases of St. Lucia and St. Vincent's, but he had taken periods when great hurricanes had occurred. In the three years, between 1826 and 1829, when natural causes only were in operation, there was a small increase in the population. All that he had argued was, that the manner of cultivating sugar was destructive of human life. In Demerara there was a great temptation to exact an undue quantity of labour, and slaves were fast perishing. In Barbadoes labour was less valuable, and there was not the same temptation to encroach upon the slave. He saw nothing in the statements of the hon. Member who had just sat down, that could shake his former arguments upon that point. Before he sat down, he would shortly state the course he intended to pursue with respect to the Resolutions before the Committee. He would not support any of the Amendments which had been already proposed on these Resolutions. He considered, that those who were for liberating the negro would follow the example of the noble Lord, the member for Liverpool, and not force the House to a division at that early stage of the proceedings. He trusted, that all those who were for the emancipation of the slaves would agree with him, that the Amendments should not be supported, and that there was nothing in the first Resolution inconsistent with the opinion that liberty should be granted to the slaves. That Resolution, therefore,
 338
 Mr. Powell Buxton  proceeded to say, that he rose to refute a charge that had been made against him by the hon. Gentleman who had spoken a few minutes since (Mr. Gladstone). He was astonished that the hon. Gentleman should have so far mistaken what he (Mr. Buxton) had said, when it was already published in three different forms. He was moreover astonished at the cheers that accompanied the hon. Gentleman's misconception. The charge was, that in his evidence he had stated that the females in Demerara equalled the number of males. He could not understand how such a charge could be brought against him. He never did say that, for what he said was, that the males in that island amounted to 37,000, and that the females amounted to 32,000. He was stating conjecturally the number of females, it was a general statement, and what he said was, that according to the last returns, the whole female population of the colonies was about 340,000, and that the male population amounted to 330,000. With respect to the decrease of population in Demerara and Trinidad, what he had said was, that taking the average decrease for the last twelve years, it would be found that such decrease would destroy the whole population of the former place in a century, and in the latter place in about a quarter of that period. There was also another point upon which he had been misconceived. What he had stated was, that he would support the noble Lord at the present stage of the proceeding, but that he could not support the Resolutions throughout. It would be impossible for him to do so, for he could never support a resolution that proposed an apprenticeship which was to last twelve years. He might have supported some shorter appren-
 339
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in the whole course of his parliamentary experience he had never approached the discussion of any question in which the interests involved appeared to him to be of equal magnitude to those connected with the subject then under discussion. He never recollected any question in which the difficulties to be surmounted were so appalling; he never recollected any one in which a single false step increased the hazards of the consequences so immensely, or which would make them more lamentable or more irreparable. He admitted the just claims of the West Indians to a compensation—to a compensation on fair and equitable terms—for the losses to which their property might be exposed in consequence of this measure of emancipation; but he did not rise to discuss the question as a partisan of the West-Indian interests. The least part of the difficulties which the question involved was, in his opinion; that of the quantity of compensation for losses to be sustained. It was certainly no consolation to him to learn, that the property of the West Indians amounted to 30,000,000 l 340 l l l l 341 342 343 344 345 346 347 348 349 350 * * 351 352 353 354 355 l 356 Vive la Republique!" Vive la Convention Nationale! Vive la Liberté! 357
 Lord Althorp  said, be concurred almost entirely in the observations made by the right hon. Gentleman. He concurred in the great importance of the measure, not only as it might affect the interests of this country, but also the slave population of other countries; but still he must say, that the danger of remaining as we were was still greater. The only difference between the course recommended by the right hon. Gentleman, and that proposed by the Government, was in the point of time. The
 358 l l l l 359
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that as they were nearly all agreed on the principle of the first Resolution, it would be as well if the hon. member for Kidderminster, (Mr. Godson) would consent to withdraw his Amendment, as he could move it at a future stage of the proceedings.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that, as it was not the intention of the hon. Member to divide upon the Amendment, he should observe that, in the future course of prosecuting this measure, it would be necessary for them to have the Colonial Legislatures assisting them; for, without their concurrence, there would be but a faint chance of carrying it into successful execution. It was, however, absolutely necessary, that the British Parliament should take the initiative step, and declare at once explicitly that there was no longer the smallest chance of avoiding emancipation. The first steps taken, the details might be filled up by the Colonial Legislatures; for he was willing to admit, that at this period of the Session, Parliament could not enter into all the various details of a measure of such magnitude. Though he so far agreed with the right hon. Baronet, yet he could not agree with him in thinking that Parliament should only indicate what it wished to be done. He would go a step further, and make a beginning at once, and leave the details to be filled up by the Colonial Legislatures; but he would have even a provisional execution of those measures, that was, that if the Colonial Legislatures did not fill up the outline which we drew by a day to be named, we should, in the next Session, however much time it might take up, or with whatever trouble or dan-
 360
 Sir Robert Inglis  was of opinion that the right hon. Secretary, would find himself as unfortunate in the use of the words "immediate abolition," as he had already found himself in the words "extinction of tithes."
 Lord Ashley  had no intention to take upon himself a power which he did not in reality possess. All he had stated was, that on this question, and on this alone, the operatives had intrusted their case into his hands. When he had said, that he was empowered to demand an open examination by the delegates, he alluded to the fact, that four delegates were in London who had been elected (the vote having been taken by universal suffrage) by the operatives of the West Riding of Yorkshire, and of Lancashire; and they having intrusted their case to his care, he was entitled to say, that he was as much the Representative of the operatives as any Member of that House was the Representative of his constituency.
 Lord Ashley  said, he was empowered by the operatives of Lancashire, the West Riding of Yorkshire, and of Scotland, to say, that it was their wish that publicity should be given to their evidence. Although publicity might be injurious to one or two individuals, it would be beneficial to the general body, He had just as much right to say, that he was empowered to speak the sense of the operatives, as any hon. Members had a right to say, that they were empowered to speak by their constituents. Delegates had been sent to him from the manufacturing districts on the subject, and they had been as fairly elected as any Member bad been by any constituency.
 Lord Ashley  before the House resolved itself into a Committee, wished to make a few observations upon the bad faith of his Majesty's Ministers with respect to what had been the understanding of the House in relation to the appointment of the Factory Commission, and of laying a copy of their instructions before the House. It had been promised, that a Return of the names of the Commissioners, with a copy of the instructions under which they acted, should be laid on the Table, in order that the House might have an opportunity of objecting to either should it sec cause. He did not mean to say, that he should have objected to any of the Commissioners, but against some of the instructions, he should undoubtedly have protested; and he should have appealed to the House whether it was not clearly understood that there was to be a fair and open examination of the operatives, and that every word uttered should be taken down by a shorthand writer. The instructions had not been laid on the Table of the House three weeks after the Commission had been voted and six weeks after they had been promised. He appealed to the noble Lord, who was a just and honest man, whether it was fair that the evidence of any man (and he spoke from knowledge, because one man had been examined) should be taken in private, and kept secret. The evidence had not been taken down by a short-hand writer. He had a right to expect, that the whole testimony should be laid on the Table of the House, and, if this were not done, he for one would protest against all the evidence of every individual which was
 306
 Lord Ashley  would speak from the documents, a copy of which had appeared in the newspapers. There was a letter from Mr. Drinkwater, in which he positively objected to the presence of a short-hand writer; and if this were his instructions from the head Commissioners in London, he should protest against the whole evidence.
 Mr. Robinson  thought it was the duty of Ministers to see that the Commissioners were pursuing that course which would lead to a satisfactory result. As this was a Secret Commission, and intended to conflict with proceedings of the Committee of that House, the public mind would never be satisfied that the Commission was fair and honest. If the Commissioners were to make a report adverse to the opinion of the Committee, the House would be involved in a mass of contradictory evidence, when it came to legislate on the subject, and the public mind would not he satisfied that the question had been fairly dealt with. He feared that no Report would be made by the
 307
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  complained of the delay in the proceedings. The Commissioners had declared, that they would proceed in the manner of the Judges in taking their own notes, and the noble Lord could not pretend that that was a method calculated to satisfy any honourable mind. The Commission had been appointed, on an understanding that the inquiry should be available to the purposes of the Bill to be carried through Parliament in the present Session. Such was the understanding expressed in the Resolutions to which the House had come. If Ministers had not made this principle the foundation of all their proceedings, they had not acted with good faith towards the House. The instructions to the Commissioners had nothing in them of a nature to make the inquiries available to legislation before the end of the Session. It would be the duty of the House, on the 17th of June, to proceed as if the Commission never had existed.
 Mr. Hall  said, he had a Petition of rather a novel description, intrusted to him. It prayed for an alteration with regard to the Church Establishment in Wales; and in presenting it to the House, and declaring that it had
 301 302
 Sir John Hanmer  said, that the inability of the Welch clergymen to discharge their duties had been very much exaggerated.
 Mr. Jervis  observed, that it was a cause of great complaint, and, in his opinion, a very just one, that clergymen who held the principal livings in Wales were not sufficiently acquainted with the language of the country to administer that spiritual consolation to their parishioners which they required and expected. They might know enough of the language to be able to go through the service in the pulpit, but they did not know enough to converse with their parishioners, and give them religious assistance at their own houses.
 Sir George Phillips  protested against the noble Lord styling himself the Representative of the operatives. If the Commissioners adopted an open examination, the objects of the Commission would be defeated. The Commissioners, in his opinion, were taking the right way to learn the state and condition of the operative classes, and their object was, to terminate their inquiries as soon as possible.
 Lord Althorp  conceived, that it was the duty of the Commissioners to have the evidence taken correctly, and laid on the Table of that House. With reference to the other parts of the question, in the present excited state of the country, he thought that objections might be made to the publicity of examinations, although it was the duty of the Commissioners to select men perfectly competent to take down the evidence they received. It had been the sense of the House, that impartial persons should be sent to ascertain the state of the children in the manufacturing districts. He had certainly forgot to lay the instructions before the House, but they were very full, and consistent with what had been the understanding of the House. It was the wish of Ministers, that the examination should be a fair  bonâ fide
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he should not answer in detail several of the points of the hon. Gentleman's speech, because they were well known to the House already. He was well aware that the suspension of relations between England and Portugal, and the present condition of the latter country, must be attended with very great inconvenience and positive injury to the mercantile interests of Great Britain. He could only say, that his Majesty's Ministers wished that the day might speedily arrive when the large body of the merchants and manufacturers might be relieved from the inconvenience which they at present suffered. The House well knew, that Donna Maria had been acknowledged as queen of Portugal  de jure de jure 305 de jure de facto.
 Lord Stormont  said, that it was well known that the evidence of one man had already been taken, and that it had not been given in the presence of any shorthand writer. The whole of the evidence already taken, or which might be taken in a similar manner, would go for nothing.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  presented a Petition from Mr. Beamish, who had been recently superannuated from the Navy Pay-office. The question arising upon this petition was not only interesting to this individual, but to the public at large, on account of the manner in which the superannuated pension list was filled up. The petition stated that he had been in his office for a period of twenty-seven years; he was appointed in the year 1805 to the situation of a clerk in the Navy Pay-office. During the last ten years of his service he had been at Plymouth, where he was at the head of the third class of clerks. At the time he entered into the public service there was an Order in Council, by which, after a service of a certain number of years, he would be entitled to a salary of 500 l. 373 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 374 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could but praise the temperate tone and manner in which the hon. Baronet had brought forward this question; but complained of his having introduced the subject of the Navy Estimates, on which, of course, he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) was not prepared without notice to give any answer. He should confine himself in his remarks to the case of Mr. Beamish. It was not the least painful part of the task of a public man, to have to reconcile the conflicting duty of obedience to the public call for retrenchment, with that of a perfect attention to the feelings and comforts of individuals. It was perfectly true, that by the Order in Council of 1822, the petitioner had been deprived of his promotion; but that was a public Order, from which he was only a sufferer in common with others. The petitioner asserted, that on public grounds of economy, and on those of possessing capacity, zeal, and ability, to labour, he ought to have been continued in office, and ought to have been promoted. The House should see how that question stood. The Treasurer of the Navy was a person to whom large sums of money were intrusted
 375 l. l. l l.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  believed that that right hon. Gentleman had been imposed upon, and did not well know what he was about when he dismissed the petitioner, whose case was one, not merely of severity, but in his view, of positive injustice. At the same time he imputed no blame to the right hon. Gentleman, beyond allowing himself to be ruled too much by the representations of others. He would contend, in spite of the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the case was one of great hardship, and it would be with him matter of very serious consideration whether or not he should submit to the House ulterior measures on the subject.
 Colonel Davies  fully acquitted the right hon. Gentleman of any personal motive, in the dismissal of Mr. Beamish, but thought it a case of considerable hardship. He had been requested to support the petition, but did not see in what way a remedy could be applied.
 Mr. Hume  was ready to support the hon. Baronet (Sir T. Freemantle) in a Motion for a Committee to inquire into the case, if he would bring the question forward in that shape. It was quite clear, that whenever the head of a department wished to remove one of the subordinates, nothing was more easy than to find a reason for it. In his (Mr. Hume's) judgment, no man could justly say that Mr. Beamish was unfit for the discharge of his duties, or for any new ones of the same kind which might be imposed upon him, and which he was ready to undertake, without the appointment of any new clerk, at 90 l.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  thought that the right hon. Gentleman ought to have been able to state some misconduct on the part of the petitioner, as a reason for his dismissal, after a service of twenty-seven years.
 Sir George Grey  bore testimony to the excellent private character of Mr. Beamish, who was one of his constituents. For a
 376
 Sir George Staunton  said, in bringing forward a question of
 378 sub judice
 Lord Ebrington : Seeing my noble friend, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, in his place, I wish to put a question to him relative to an occurrence in another place. The question which I desire to put is this:—Does there exist on the part of his Majesty's Government any intention to alter the course of policy to be pursued with respect to the relations subsisting between this country and Portugal? I am aware that a Motion
 377
 Viscount Palmerston : During the period that we have had the honour to advise the Crown, we have with respect to Portugal, as with respect to all other matters of foreign and domestic policy, pursued that course which we thought most conducive to the interests of the country, and the dignity and honour of the Crown; and so long as we have the honour of performing the task of advising the Crown, we will not depart or swerve in the slightest degree from those principles which have hitherto governed our conduct.
 Sir Hussey Vivian  felt it due to the Irish Government to state, that in many instances the assistance of the police had been refused when applied for to enforce the payment of tithes. There could be no doubt that in many instances the police had gone out with those who were employed to serve tithe processes; and if they had not, every one who knew anything of the state of the country, could imagine what would be the fate of the process-server. The military had been employed on no occasion, unless for the purpose of covering and protecting the civil power; and he was yet to learn that this was an improper employment of a military force. Although some of the clergy might have been hasty in attempting to recover their demands, he could
 391
 Mr. O'Connell  had been furnished with the particulars of a great number of cases in which the clergy of the Established
 389 l. s. s. l. s.
 Mr. Lefroy  did not think any one could be surprised to learn that those who had been for throe years without receiving any part of their income, and were reduced to a state of positive starvation and distress, as many of the Irish clergy had been, should take the earliest opportunity afforded by the appearance of returning peace in the country, to try and recover some part of their dues. The noble Lord, in reply to the hon. and learned member for Dublin, had used the phrase "imprudent proceedings." Now, in justice to the clergy of Ireland, the noble Lord should state whether he meant to apply the epithet imprudent generally, or to those particular cases pointed out by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. If the hon. and learned Member would bring forward the subject, after giving due notice, so as to give the parties alluded to an opportunity of explaining, instead of dealing in gross and sweeping assertions, he should be prepared to meet him.
 Mr. O'Connell  would vote for the Motion; and in supporting it, as it implied confidence in his Majesty's Ministers, nobody would suspect him of any interested motives. The House was bound to come to that conclusion if they meant to support neutrality. What was the present situation as to neutrality? Had they not a vote of one House operating in favour of Don Miguel? He said yes! the other House had given the privilege of their countenance, as far as it went, to Don Miguel. He was just the sort of person for the Conservatives to take in hand. The hon. Member talked of a collision with the other House, but who began it? Why the other House. They had characteristically taken Don Miguel's part, and had placed themselves in a false position. They had begun the battle by throwing their shield over Don Miguel and his policy. It was admitted even by all the speakers who were in his favour, that he was a usurper, and not only a usurper, but a perjured man, a murderer, and a traitor to his father and his country. That was the man over whom the other House had thrown their shield—that was the man whose cause the other House had sanctified, and to restore neutrality, they ought to give a vote on the other side. The Resolution of that House ought to go abroad to neutralize the vote of the other, and he believed it would have quite as much moral effect as the vote of the other House. The country, it was plain, was divided into two parties—the party which wished to reap the benefits of Reform, and the party which wished to withhold them. The Ministers said, that they were
 421 422 particeps criminis 423
 Colonel Evans  said, that it was in the power of any individual to bring the Foreign Enlistment Act into operation if he could make out a case for that purpose. It was not the duty of Ministers more than of other men to carry it into effect. A
 441 442 443
 Mr. Bernal  wished to know whether the hon. member for Dover meant to confine the investigation to the cod and turbot fisheries, or whether he intended to include an inquiry into the oyster trade and river fisheries?
 Mr. Halcomb  said, his Motion should have no reference to the internal fisheries of the country.
 Mr. Bernal  put it to the discretion of the hon. member for Dover, whether any benefit could result from such an inquiry commenced at so late a period of the Session. There were great interests and most important questions involved in this inquiry. The Committee would have to consider, not only some questions of international law, but the conflicting interests of the English fishermen and those of Guernsey and Jersey.
 Captain Yorke  denied, that the instances to which the noble Lord had referred, of assistance being afforded to Greece in the time of Mr. Canning, were at all applicable to the present case. The fact was, that the masters of the two ships alluded to which sailed from this country in 1825, were afterwards fined by Government for a breach of the. Act of Parliament. He was himself stationed at that time in the Mediterranean, and on coming up with a convoy which had been fitted out in this country, and which was destined for the assistance of the Turks; finding that they sailed under British colours, though he was not in sufficient force to take them, he made them haul down the British and hoist the Turkish colours. For that act he had been commended by the Admiralty, and he understood that Mr. Canning had praised his conduct on that occasion. The Speech from the Throne had led all the world to believe that a perfect neutrality was to be preserved, yet, it could not be denied that the results had shown that a war had been carried on against Don Miguel. Vessels had been continually leaving the ports of this realm, and it was impossible that they could have quitted those ports without the Government being cognizant, for as Customs dues were to be paid, every information as to their cargoes and destination could be afforded to the Government by its own officers in the various ports of the kingdom. But he (Captain Yorke) wished much to know what the ships in his Majesty's service had been doing so long in the Douro? Of the duty those ships were performing, the Government could not be uninformed, for the right hon. Baronet (the First Lord of the Admiralty) must have been regularly in receipt of returns from the officers in command. Every vessel leaving the ports of this country must be provided with a clearance and manifest of her cargo, as the House could not but know; and it was equally well known that any variation between the contents of the vessel and those documents rendered her the lawful prize of any of his Majesty's ships. If his Majesty's fleets in the Douro had
 419 Birmingham Britannia 420
 Colonel Davies  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice as to the Relations of this country with Portugal. He began by assuring the House, that he had never risen to address it under feelings of such embarrassment as at that moment. The importance of the question he had to submit was so great, as on it would depend whether his Majesty's Government should continue to pursue that course which, in his opinion, happily for the country, it had hitherto pursued with respect to our foreign relations, or whether this country was to return once more into the train of the Holy Alliance. These considerations would be a source of embarrassment to him in bringing forward this subject on any occasion, but he confessed that his difficulties were increased from what had occurred in the other House of Parliament. As a plain straightforward course was the most manly, and at the same time the safest to be pursued, he would at once avow, that his great object on this occasion was to counteract, by a vote of that House, the prejudicial effect of the vote which had been come to a few evenings before in the other House of Parliament. No man could deprecate more than he did the bringing about any collision between the two Houses of Parliament: nothing was therefore further from his wish on this occasion. He admitted, in its fullest extent, the right of the other House to express its opinion on any public question; but he claimed the same
 392 393 de jure de facto 394 * * 395 396
 Lord John Russell , in explanation, said that he never denied the right of the Crown to interfere to prevent the levying of men for foreign service, but only expressed a doubt of that right being practicable of enforcement in many instances.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had expressed opinions upon this subject, which he had no doubt were sincere and conscientious. In opposing the Motion, that hon. Member had laid the principal stress of his argument upon the danger of that House coming into collision with the other House of Parliament. Before he replied to that part of the hon. Gentleman's speech, he would just advert to some other points that had arisen in the course of the present debate. He would not say, that it was not necessary to discuss the character of Don Miguel, but that character had been so often discussed before, that it required but little illustration or remark to set it in its true light before the world. Indeed, he did not think that it was at all necessary to add a word to the condemnation which had been pronounced in the other House of Parliament not very long since by a noble Lord, then Secretary for Foreign Affairs, upon the conduct of that Prince, whom the noble Lord called false, cruel, and cowardly. There could not possibly be imagined any three qualities more disgraceful—qualities which could more degrade a man or a Prince than those which had been then enumerated by the noble Lord in question as distinguishing the character of Don Miguel. He would not say, whether or not the noble Lord had expressed himself in unusually strong terms in that instance, more especially considering the office which the noble Lord held at the time; but this he would say, that events which had happened since that period had most completely convinced him of the great discrimination which the noble Lord then evinced upon the subject. He would not say anything further regarding the character of that Prince beyond this, that it was not fair to assume that it should be matter of indifference to us. He was ready to admit that, generally speaking, such was the principle which should guide this country in such cases, and had we no more connexion with Portugal or with
 411 412 Thetis l. 413 414 * "Hansard, xl. p. 1098. 415 416 417 418
 Mr. Ronayne  said, he had before understood from the noble Lord, that such a suspension had been directed long since; but the arrears continued to be collected in the most vexatious and oppressive manner. According to the last accounts from Ireland, houses were broken into, and all sorts of outrages were committed in the name of the law.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the other House of Parliament had a right to express its opinion on this subject; and having exercised its undoubted and constitutional privilege, it was neither necessary nor expedient to bring forward a motion like the present, the direct tendency of which was to place the Commons in collision with the Lords. Unless great temper and moderation were observed in both Houses, such a crisis would be unavoidable, and the effect must be, to embarrass any government that could be formed. His gallant colleague did not deny the right of the Lords to form and express an opinion on the subject of Portugal—why, then, call upon the Commons, in the midst of public business, to agree to a vote which was meant to cast a slur upon the other House? Besides, he objected to the Motion on the ground that it expressed approbation of the judicious course pursued by Ministers in the affairs of Portugal in the absence of any information on the subject. He regretted, therefore, that he could not agree in his gallant colleague's proposition. He deprecated such a vote, on the ground that it went not only to bring the Commons into collision with the Lords, but because its effect must be to create a feeling in the minds of Peers that there existed in that House of Parliament a disposition to interfere unnecessarily with the privileges of the other. It had been stated, that there was a short road by which to settle the question. Undoubtedly there was a short road from the top of a precipice to the bottom, but it might not be wise to take it. Was it a wise thing to accelerate a collision between two branches of the Legislature? In the contest now carrying on in Portugal, one party had been favoured to the exclusion of the other. He feared the result would be, that we should not acquire the respect or goodwill of either party. Don Miguel was naturally dissatisfied at our conduct, and the friends of Don Pedro did riot think we had gone far enough in their favour. He could interpret that significant look and cheer
 408 409 410
 Mr. Barron  said, that the greatest harshness and oppression had been practised in the counties of Waterford and Kildare, in the collection of tithes. The police in these counties were turned info process-servers for tithes; and he asked the noble Lord whether that ought to be permitted by the Government? The clergy were now pursuing a most outrageous course of proceeding, and taking the most unfair advantage of the Act of last Session, as it would serve to oppress the people, and drive them to rebellion. He did hope that his Majesty's Government would discountenance such disgraceful, base, and ignoble conduct.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  rose, for the purpose of asking the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) whether, when it was found necessary to enforce a debt due to the Crown, it was right that the Officers of the Crown should break into the houses of the Kings debtors and take the inmates off to gaol? He understood, that such was the course pursued in Ireland with respect to those who owed tithes, and who, under the construction of a late Act of Parliament, had become Crown debtors. He wished particularly to know whether such a course of proceeding had been sanctioned by his Majesty's Government?
 Sir Henry Hardinge  conceived that his best apology to the House for trespassing on their notice would be furnished by the fact of his long acquaintance with and residence in the country alluded to; his having worn the uniform of Portugal, and having had the command of a brigade of Portuguese, than whom he knew no allies more faithful or soldiers more brave and gallant. They were not called on to decide on the character of Don Miguel or of Don Pedro, and of the cruelties and miseries he inflicted on the Portuguese people. He should not enter into the comparative merits of the two brothers; that was not the question here. The question was, whether the British Government had acted fairly towards the Portuguese government? Had they fulfilled the stipulations of strict neutrality which had been promised by his Majesty in his speech from the Throne? The question for them was, had strict neutrality been observed, or had it not? His hon. and gallant friend did not attempt a direct defence of the present Government. He defended them merely by recrimination; by an attack upon the conduct of the late Government; and he asked, what had the former Government done?—and instanced the conduct of a British army sent out to Portugal. For an answer to these observations he might refer his hon. and gallant friend to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston), who was in office when Mr. Canning sent troops out to Portugal. He was ready to admit that it was perfectly consistent in his hon. and gallant friend to advocate the propriety and justice of permitting the Portuguese to be assisted from this country, and of
 401 402 403 ambo neuter * * 404 * en masse * 405 * * 406 407
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he could understand the motives which induced the hon.
 424 425 Althorp 426 de facto 427 428 * * 429 * * 430 431 432 l. l. 433 non sequitur Augsburg Gazette 434 435
 Lord Althorp  had heard and believed, that the clergy had in some cases pressed for the payment of their tithes—he would not say in the manner in which the hon. and learned Member had stated, but certainly in what he should call an imprudent manner. The hon. and learned Member, however, was mistaken, if he supposed that in any of those instances in which the dues of the clergy were imprudently pressed for, the Government had given its assistance.
 Lord Althorp  said, that by the Act of Parliament passed last Session, money was advanced to the Irish clergy upon the arrears of tithes due to them, and upon such advances being made the debts due to the clergy became debts to the Crown. Now in England and Ireland the law was the same, that for debts due to the Crown houses might be broken into, and entered. He believed, that this might have happened in Ireland in some cases, but he could state, that the same thing would not happen again. Orders had been recently sent to Ireland to suspend the collection of tithe arrears, and all processes issued under the Act of last Session, at least until the opinion of the House was taken on a question which he had to bring forward with respect to the collection of tithes.
 Lord Althorp  did not think he had given any intimation of that kind before. He certainly had not, nor could not have said, that directions were given to the Irish Government not to proceed in the collection of tithe arrears until the present moment. He could now, however, state that such directions had been sent.
 Viscount Morpeth  rose to second the Motion which had been recommended to the House in a speech of so much ability, by his hon. and gallant friend. The last time that the question of Portuguese affairs had been brought before the House, it had been sustained so triumphantly in argument, as well as carried so overwhelmingly by votes, in favour of the conduct of Government in those affairs, that he was not surprised, putting every thing else out of view, that the next Motion introduced was a motion not to arraign, but to avow and confirm their policy. Indeed, it seemed to him that if any person, either a contemporary witness or a future peruser of these transactions, could question the entire propriety of the Resolution before the House, it would arise from a doubt whether this country had assumed a moral attitude sufficiently elevated—had exhibited a moral countenance sufficiently constant to the Sovereign whose rights she had unequivocally acknowledged—sufficiently constant to the parties alone whose hopes she had inevitably encouraged—sufficiently constant to the principles which she must
 397 398 399 His birth, his titles, crowds and courts confess; Chaste matrons praise him, and grave bishops bless. 400
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was singular that some of the hon. Members who opposed the proposition, should object to the discussion, on the ground of a want of information, since no such tenderness or compunction had been shown in another place when the self-same question was discussed. To come to the subject more immediately before the House, the right hon. Baronet said, that the personal character of Don Miguel had nothing to do with it, but he believed that it was the personal character of that prince which induced the late Government to order our Ambassador, in the first instance, to leave Lisbon, and afterwards to abstain, so long as they remained in office, from renewing friendly relations with Portugal. It was therefore perfectly consistent, that his noble friend should have considered, at that time, that the effect of the acquiescence of the Cortes in the sovereignty of Don Miguel afforded sufficient grounds, according to the principles which ought to govern the proceedings of this country, for acknowledging him as the sovereign of Portugal; and it was perfectly consistent, that he might now think, since a great degree of resistance had arisen to his claim, and since a civil war existed in Portugal, that there were not the same grounds for the acquiescence of this country in the claim of Don Miguel as for-
 436 437 438 439 * * 440
 Mr. Lefroy  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but to call the attention of the House to the contrast between the general charge brought yesterday by the learned Gentleman against a large body of the clergy of Ireland, and the proof offered to-day in support of it, which had dwindled to a single instance. The learned Member had not told the House how much tithe these persons owed besides the half year due at May; and if they were to be sued, the whole demand would necessarily be included; if not, we should hear of another sort of oppression, by the multiplication of suits. But what was the oppression, if a clergyman or any other man was obliged to sue for his rights, to refer the party sued to his attorney? He saw no oppression in all this—but if there was, what body of men could be found in which a single instance of oppression might not occur? Would the clergy of England bear to be tried by such a test? As to the precise object of the hon. and learned Gentleman's Motion, he was at a loss to understand it, unless it were to be maintained that a clergyman was not entitled to sue for his right in Ireland like any other man. Did the learned Gentleman mean to say, that tithes were not property—or that the Irish clergy were to be treated as outlaws, and not entitled to sue for their property? Unless this was the doctrine to be maintained, he (Mr. Lefroy) could not see the object in distinguishing between writs issued on behalf of clergymen, and others.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. and learned member for the University appeared quite to misunderstand him. He had mentioned one name because that name had been transmitted to him, and the facts connected with the case were ready to be substantiated. He had received accounts of many other cases of a similar description, in which the names of the parishes,
 449
 Mr. Henry Grattan  declared, that if the hon. member for the University of Dublin was not satisfied with the statement that had been made by the hon. and learned member for the city of Dublin, he would pledge himself to produce plenty of evidence of a similar nature. They were cases of every day occurrence. There was the case of a Mr. Armstrong, who selected from a number of cattle that might have been taken, those that were the least capable of being driven, and instead of placing them in a pound in the neighbourhood, had them sent to a distance of nearly five miles. The question was now become a most serious one. On a recent occasion the 29th regiment was called out, and a body of police, to disperse a large number of persons that were assembled, when the soldiers refused to fire, but the police did so, and one man was killed. The state of the country was such that Irish Members could not be silent any longer, and he entreated the noble Lord (Althorp) to bring forward his Motion with respect to Irish tithes without delay. Even if the hon. member for Staffordshire (Mr. Littleton), should not be able to take his seat next week, he hoped no further delay would take place in bringing forward this question, as the peace of Ireland depended upon its speedy and satisfactory settlement.
 Mr. O'Connell  bore testimony to the general humanity and good conduct of the military when brought into collision with the people, as distinguished from the conduct of the police. On the occasion already alluded to by the hon. member for Meath (Mr. Grattan) the Commander of the troops directed them not to fire at the people who were near them.
 Mr. Finn  was sure, that if the people of Scotland and England were ordered to pay tithes like the Irish, they would not submit to it for one hour. In point of fact the tithe system in Ireland must be extinguished. In the county of Carlow, just now, a clergyman (Mr. Whitby) issued processes for the payment of his tithes, drove off the cattle worth 8 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  was sorry to be obliged to prolong a discussion so very irregularly introduced as the present had been, by the hon. member for Dublin, making a motion without notice, and on a day that orders take precedence of motions, even if notice had been given. However, the occasion had been seized with avidity by the hon. member for Meath (Mr. Henry Grattan) and other Gentlemen, to cast odium and reproach upon the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland; and reluctant as he was to trouble the House by continuing a desultory discussion, he could not suffer the attempt to be made, and remain silent, and hear the charge of tyranny and oppression brought against the Irish clergy without repelling it. At the present moment there was not due to them less than an average of three years' income. He had already moved for a return of the arrears of tithe withheld from them—it was not yet made to the House, but he could state, in three dioceses alone out of two-and-twenty in Ireland, a sum of 170,000 l. 451
 Mr. Firm  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman had no right to impute motives.
 Mr. Shaw  admitted he should not impute motives, and therefore he would only say hypothetically, that if such were the hon. Member's motives, he could not take a better means of indulging them, and though he could not say the object of the hon. Member was to cause disturbance and the violation of the law in Ireland, by the language he used in that House, he must be allowed to give his opinion, that it had that tendency. If tithes were to be commuted, that was another question, to which he was willing to give attention when it came before the House. If hon. Gentlemen objected to the principle of tithes, let them attack that principle openly and manfully; but it was an unmanly and an unworthy course to accuse of tyranny and oppression, men who for three years had been suffering unheard-of privations, because they sought a small portion of their legal dues, which were not even alleged to be other than lawful. He would not harrow the feelings of the House by mentioning the many instances of suffering of which he was aware. He acknowledged with gratitude the kindness and liberality of the English people in endeavouring to alleviate the distress of the Irish clergy, but the sum collected was necessarily but as a drop in the ocean com-
 452 name, name
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  thought the hon. member for Dublin University had dealt very severely with the hon. member for Meath. As to the assertion of the hon. Member of the great arrears due to the Irish clergy, he would state that in some dioceses they had actually been offered 15 s.
 Mr. Henry Grattan , after the statements
 453
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he had it from a clergyman in the county of Meath, that the reason why the tenants were unable to pay their tithes was, the severity with which they were treated by their landlords, and the high rents they were called upon to pay.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that there was not a single tenant of his in the county of Meath, who paid more for his land than from 2 s. d. s.
 Mr. Baring  deprecated going into a discussion on a matter not then before the House. They were, however, every day hearing from Ireland complaints of the conduct of the police, and statements about people being shot in this place and in that, and tithes set down as the sole cause of these lamentable occurrences. All the while the noble Lord was sitting most composedly on his seat, with a Motion on the Notice-book respecting Irish tithes; the House being completely in the dark as to what might be the intentions of his Majesty's Government on the subject; there being at the same time a notice also on the subject of tithes, but relating to England. Now, with great deference to the noble Lord, he would say, that the introduction of a measure upon the subject of English tithes was this year not pressing, and might without disadvantage be postponed to a future Session. It would keep till another year; but the noble Lord had permitted a notice upon the subject to remain on the book, and he, therefore, felt desirous of asking him whether or not it was his intention to bring it forward in the course of the present Session of Parliament? As to the communications which he was daily and almost hourly receiving from the country upon that subject, there was no end to them; and he, therefore, put it to the noble Lord to say, openly, and at once, whether or not it was his intention to bring the measure forward this Session, or to postpone it till the next?
 Lord Althorp  said, that as usual, the hon. Member who had just sat down took the opportunity of making a severe attack on his Majesty's Government. In answer to the hon. Member's question, he would say, that it was his intention to persevere in the present Session with the English Tithe Commutation Bill, and also to bring on the question respecting the Irish tithes. He had a notice of motion on that subject for Wednesday last, but as there was no House it fell to the ground. It was, however, his intention to bring it on on Monday next, and on that day he would move, in a Committee of the whole House, certain Resolutions as to the tithes of 1831, 1832, and the present year. The hon. Member (Mr. Baring) complained of the arrangement of public business in that House by Ministers; but if the hon. Member would consider what had been done in the House, and the state of the order-book, he would see that it was impossible for Ministers to get on with the public business faster than they had done. When the long discussions into which the House had been so constantly led, on matters which tended to no practical result, were taken into consideration, and when it was also considered, that Ministers had only two days to bring on the public business, so as to have the precedents of the other business on the paper, it would be seen that the fault of not going on faster with the business was not theirs. He would repeat, that it was his intention to persevere with the English Tithe Commutation Bill, to move the resolutions respecting the Irish tithes on Monday; and after the discussion on the subject of colonial slavery should have been gone through, to go on with the Church Temporalities (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  was very desirous that the tithe question should be dealt with in a becoming manner. Now, the noble Lord complained of the delay which arose from the interminable discussions which were carried on upon every question. In that he quite agreed with the noble Lord; but he must tell him that the great cause originated in the fact that the measures of his Majesty's Government were introduced to the House before they had been properly discussed, and, therefore, it became necessary in the Committees to suggest alterations without end; whereas, if further time were taken for consideration, these discussions would be prevented. It was
 455
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that he hoped the Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House might be allowed to take the liberty of making such observations as they deemed expedient, without having any unfavourable impression thrown upon their motives. The noble Lord, entertaining, as no doubt he did, the best intentions towards the Church Establishment, could not fail to know that this was a question which had excited throughout the country the most intense anxiety, and he hoped that, under the auspices of the noble Lord, it would be brought to a satisfactory issue. He begged to assure that noble Lord, that, acting always upon the same principles which he had uniformly kept in view, he would not, for his own part, enter into the discussion of this question with any feeling of party spirit. He begged to assure the noble Lord, with that sincerity for which he trusted the noble Lord gave him credit, that he would materially forward the object which the noble Lord had in view, by following the suggestions which had been thrown out by the hon. member for Cambridge University; and he thought the adjournment of the introduction of any measure on this subject, with a view to afford more time for deliberation on so vast a subject, would tend much to increase the value of any future measure.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had hoped that his conduct in that House had not been such as to have evinced a disposition to transgress on the courtesy of the House; but the tone which had been assumed by some hon. Gentlemen was such that he felt he could not remain quiet. The hon. Baronet seemed to wish him to delay the measure to which he had referred; but he found it impossible to do so; and it certainly was his intention, and he should feel it his duty, to press the measures with reference to the Church this Session.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that it would facilitate the other business of the Session if the noble Lord would postpone the English Tithe Commutation Bill to the next Session, or refer its details to a Committee above-stairs. In the present state of the business it could not be expected, that they could get into the Committee on the Bill in less than a month from this time. They would then be in the dog-days, and he need not remind the House of the great difficulty of getting a full attendance at that time of the year; and, certainly, the dry discussion on the details of the measure would be no great inducement to Members to attend. He would, therefore, urge the propriety of sending the details of the Bill to a Committee up stairs. The present state of business on the paper was almost a disgrace to the House. It was utterly impossible that it could be gone through in the present Session. He was aware that the noble Lord had no control over the business brought forward by others, but he had over the business of Government; and he hoped, therefore, that he would not allow any new business to be brought in until at least there was some prospect of disposing of what they had already before them. He should wish that the noble Lord would take two or three days to consider the actual state of the public business, and then decide on what should be submitted to the consideration of the House; for what with the attendance at the early sittings of the House, the attendance in Committees up stairs, and the late sittings in the House at night, and allowing some short time for attention to domestic affairs, it was impossible that Members could get through the business which now stood on the book; and yet, in the midst of this pressure, he was not a little surprised to hear the Solicitor General give notice of a Bill for the abolition of imprisonment for debt. There should, he repeated, be some understanding with Government as to the business which was to be pressed on the attention of the House.
 Colonel Davies  thought, that Government were not to blame for the multiplicity of the notices on the book, but he thought they were to blame in not enforcing more strictly the regulations which the House had agreed upon for the despatch of business. The House sat at twelve o'clock each day for the purpose of receiving petitions, in order that they might be ready
 457
 Dr. Lushington  thought, that the English Tithe Commutation Bill was a measure of the utmost importance. He would admit, that the adoption of its principle required mature consideration, but when that principle were once agreed upon, he did not think that the details would take up as much time as the right hon. Baronet seemed to apprehend. He could assert, that he had never seen any important measure introduced in a more perfect state than that was. He earnestly hoped that Government would persevere in it, for, from his own knowledge, he could state, that there was a rising disposition in the people of England to resist the payment of tithes. It was to counteract that feeling that he would urge the passing of this Bill; for if they allowed this feeling to grow as it had taken root in the hearts of the Irish, they would permit an evil which it would be found impossible to counteract.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  thought, that the great evil with respect to the business of the House was that of not allowing notices to take precedence of motions on all days. Whole nights were taken up in the discussion of Motions which, though they led to no practical result as related to the objects of the Motions themselves, deferred the more important business of the Session. He would suggest, as a remedy, that Motions should take precedence every day of notices of Motions. In that way only could they get through the public business.
 Mr. Stanley  quite agreed in the sound doctrine of the hon. Member who spoke last as to the despatch of the public business. It was not his intention to enter into the various subjects which had been introduced in the course of this conversation. There was one question which stood for consideration that evening—a question of paramount importance to the country—with which he hoped the House would at once be allowed to proceed—he spoke of the abolition of colonial slavery. Every moment which Ministers had at command during the present week they had devoted to the consideration of the Resolutions which had
 458
 Sir Matthew While Ridley  said, the hon. member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason) had given the House good advice, and he hoped that it would be attended to. He condemned the practice, on going into a Committee of Supply, of introducing grave and important questions which ought not to be brought forward without due notice. It was unquestionably the right of any hon. Member to proceed in that way; but it was a right that ought not to be exercised without the greatest caution and discretion. He knew not how the House was to get through the multiplication of business that was brought (and in some instances he would say most unnecessarily) before it. At Easter there were no less than 112 notices of motion on the Order-book; and at Whitsuntide there were ninety-nine notices of Motion, independent of the various Orders of the Day. Some of these notices were fixed for the 16th, and some for a period so late as the 18th of July.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had to intrude himself upon the attention of the House for a very short time. He had listened with very great attention to all the discussions upon this question, with a view to see whether the plan submitted to their consideration was one likely to be productive of practical benefit, before he offered
 459 460 s. d. 461 l. 462 463 l. 464 465 ex-parte 466 467 468 469 l. l. l. l. l. 470 No, no 471
 Admiral Fleming  regretted, that he had not been present when the hon. member for Middlesex had thought proper to open his fire upon him (Admiral Fleming). He, however, could now only state, that he adhered to the evidence which he had formerly given before Committees of the Houses of Parliament, and which was founded upon what he had himself seen in Venezuela. In support of what he had then stated he could produce the late President of Venezuela, who was then under the gallery, and who would bear him out in every word he had uttered. He had not come forward either a willing or a volunteer witness, and he could also say that he could be directly corroborated in other respects by General Herman, Governor of Bogota. He was also prepared to repeat all he had stated with reference to the Colonial Assembly of Jamaica, for, though his information was not derived
 472
 Mr. Buckingham  said, in rising to offer a few observations on the subject before the House, he could not refrain from expressing his surprise and regret at the course pursued by his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, whose objections came too late, for his proposition was to delay that declaration of Emancipation which the House had solemnly pronounced by the unanimous vote on the first Resolution, which had already passed; it was perfectly useless, therefore, now to propose a Committee for further evidence, as the fiat had gone forth, to declare that slavery should be abolished, and our only remaining task now was to determine the when and the how. The hon. Member had deprecated our legislating in ignorance of the actual circumstances of the colonies, of which he assumed that we knew nothing, compared with the individuals who resided in them, and he asked whether the inhabitants of Japan were not likely to understand what was passing in their own country better than the people of England. The illustration was not a happy one, for the cases were not parallel. There was no intercourse whatever between the people of England and the people of Japan, and there was not a single Japanese to be found, perhaps, in all the British islands; whereas the intercourse between England and the West Indies was frequent and extensive. Hundreds of persons who had passed the greatest por-
 473 474 475 476 477 478 479 480 * * Note by Mr. Buckingham. 481 482 483 484 s. d. 485
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the deep interest which he had felt in this question, during the number of years which he had advocated it, and its vast importance to a great number of our fellow-creatures, rendered it necessary, that he should make a few observations upon it. In all the speeches he had hitherto made, however, he had endeavoured to recommend measures of conciliation; and if he departed from that course now, the fault must not be attributed to him, but to the hon. member for Middlesex, whose speech that night had certainly surprised him. In what he (Dr. Lushington) had to state, he grieved to say, that he had not to answer any avowed colonial agent; not one of whom, he would venture to say, but would be ashamed to give utterance to the opinions of the hon. member for Middlesex, who had during the whole of his political life advocated the rights of the slave, and the removal of his chains. That hon. Member, throughout the whole of his life, had, of all men, professed himself to be the friend of the negro—he, of all men, had professed himself desirous to break the negro's chains. What, however, was his conduct on every question in which it was involved? In theory, an abolitionist; in practice, whether it was an Order in Council to be discussed, an act of cruelty to be perpetrated, any little benefit to be conferred upon the colonies, any Committee to be appointed for the
 486 487 488 489 490 Hume 491
 Mr. Baring  said, that although he thought that the House was in want of information, and believed that the Government had rashly undertaken the measure which they had brought forward; yet, now that the storm was raised, he doubted the wisdom of adopting the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex. He considered the question of the emancipation of the negroes to be settled. The course which Government had pursued put it beyond the power of any party, be they planters in the West Indies or merchants in England, to prevent emancipation. Opposition to that measure could attain no practical end, and would only render impossible any favourable result to the experiment about to be tried. The complaint which he had to make against those who had hitherto advocated the question of emancipation—for instance, the hon. member for Weymouth—was, that emancipation being now certain, they did not apply themselves to endeavour to effect their object in the safest manner. It behoved them to pause in their career: the change they proposed to effect was one of gigantic character—extending to all the great commercial and shipping interests of the country; and they could not too carefully guard themselves against being led away by praiseworthy feelings into precipitate legislation. The country, in its natural and humane anxiety, to get rid of the ills of slavery, was little aware of the great sacrifice it was now called upon to make of the national interests for the attainment of its object; but it would soon learn the amount of that sacrifice: ere twelve months had elapsed from the passing of the present measure, he was convinced there would be a great re-action in the public mind; and that Parliament and the public would be called upon to inquire into the mischievous consequences of its hasty proceedings; and to inquire whether and how the colonies might be preserved, or were worth to the nation the cost of being retained as national properly? The whole question, after all,
 492 493 l. vice versa. l. l. l. 494 l. l.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart , as a West Indian, could not support the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex; and with regard to that of the hon. member for Sheffield, no person at all conversant with the difficulties of the case could for an instant entertain the proposition. The first step being now taken, by the principle of the necessity of abolishing slavery having been established, he must as a
 495 l. l. l.
 Lord Howick  said, that the Committee were placed in some embarrassment by the various amendments before it. If the question was put according to form, "that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question," the supporters of all the four amendments must vote against the Resolution of his right hon. friend, which was not fair. But, according to the forms of the House, if the second and third Resolutions were not carried, the Bill need not be altered in a single line. The noble Lord shortly recapitulated his
 496 l. 497
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  assured the Committee, that at that late hour of the night (one o'clock) he would only trespass upon its attention with a few observations, and those not so much in the way of answer to, as comment upon, the different shades of opinion which had been brought out in the course of the debate by the different Gentlemen who had taken part in it. His reason for pursuing this course was, that though almost all of them agreed in differing from the plan of Government, they differed so much more widely from each other, that he did not despair of gaining the support of many of those speakers, by showing that Government, in steering between the extreme opinions on each side, had acted a wise, and prudent, and politic part. He could not, in the outset of his remarks, refrain from expressing his surprise that at this time, after the Resolution to which the House came the other night, after its unanimous vote, in which, if the hon. member for Middlesex had not joined, he had we fully disappointed the hopes and wishes of his constituents "that immediate and effectual measures be taken for the entire abolition of slavery throughout the colonies, under such provisions for regulating the condition of the negroes as may combine their welfare with the interests of the proprietors," he could not, he said, refrain from expressing his surprise, that as that point was settled, and as the question now was, that "it is expedient that all children born after the passing of any Act, or who shall be under the age of six years at the time of passing any Act of Parliament for this purpose be declared free," that the hon. member for Middlesex should think it a good opportunity in the middle of June, after he had suspended his opposition to the total abolition of slavery, and after he had beard the dis-
 498 499 500
 Mr. Hume : I beg pardon. I never said any such thing. I said, that I had no interest in the West Indies. I never said that I had no tie nor connexion with them.
 Mr. Stanley : Well, it was singular enough that all the statements which the hon. Member had made against the practicability of free labour—all the extracts which he had read from letters—came from the island of Trinidad, and from the island of Trinidad only. Now, the statement made by the President of the Congress of Venezuela was, that since the introduction of free labour into that country, not only had free labour been found practicable there, but the free labourers had also been found working readily with their former slave associates, and the cultivation of sugar had increased considerably. He (Mr. Stanley) had also stated, but only incidentally, that rum manufactured from Venezuelan sugar had found its way even into Trinidad as Jamaica rum. Upon this the relative of the hon. member for Middlesex had come boldly forward and had wished to be informed how this importation had taken place. Now, he admitted that we had fiscal laws and regulations prohibiting such importation; but surely it was not necessary for him to tell the House that prohibition was not always prevention. Mr. Burnley asked from what ports, in what vessels, under whose agency, from whose office, did this importation proceed; and added, "I request this information from you, because, coming from you, I know it may be relied on." Now, he thought that this was not dealing altogether fairly with the evidence of the gentleman to whom he had referred, and the consequence had been, that the gentleman had replied, "I readily gave to the Secretary of State such information as was in my power; but on points like these I will not submit to be cross-examined by you." "Oh, then!" said Mr. Burnley, "no sugar is grown in Venezuela, and none exported from it, the produce of free labour." Now the hon. and gallant Admiral had told the House that he not only saw sugar growing there, the produce
 501 502 503 l. l.
 Mr. Baring : I never said so.
 Mr. Stanley : I am in the recollection of the House.
 Mr. Baring : I must insist on not being thus misrepresented. I never said one word about a scramble. I should have been ashamed of myself if I had. It was no proposition of mine to reduce the Malt-tax, but seeing that there was, as it were, a sort of scramble to get rid of taxes, I felt that if it was my duty to stand forward in behalf of my constituents, and to protect them from those taxes which pressed most heavily upon them.
 Mr. Stanley : I am happy, that the hon. Gentleman has corrected the impression which, in common with many of the Gentlemen around me, I had conceived of what fell from the hon. Member on a former occasion. I think, however, that the expressions which he then used were as liable to misconstruction as those of mine, which have been so shamelessly misconstrued. The hon. Gentleman's
 504 505 l. l. 506 * * 507 minimum maximum
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  wished to declare his opinion, that if once they abolished the despotism of the whip, they must supply its place by a system of encouragement, or they would fail in their object. If they did not hold out an inducement to labour, they would have no labour: there was no medium between the system of the whip and a system of wages. He should undoubtedly feel it to be his duty to oppose
 508
 Mr. Hume  denied, that he was influenced by any desire to delay the emancipation of the slave; nor was it fair to charge him with neglecting to call for inquiry on this subject. He had proposed an inquiry, and it was at the request of the Government itself, that he consented to withdraw the proposition. The hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets had said, that he had pledged himself against slavery in general, but that he objected to abolition in detail. But what had the hon. and learned Member himself done? He had made promises to his constituents in detail, and now that he was in Parliament he endeavoured to escape from them by general declarations. He had as good a right to attack the hon. and learned Gentleman as the hon. and learned Gentleman had to attack him. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, he would repeat, had been guilty of an error in stating, that the sugar-cane was not cultivated in Venezuela until after the abolition of slavery: it was extensively grown as long back as 1809.
 Sir Robert Peel  was, on the whole, inclined to give his assent to the second Resolution, because he considered, that the safest step to the ultimate abolition of slavery would be to declare that the children of slaves hereafter born should be free. He had no objection to that part of the plan which gave freedom to the children of the slave at a certain age, for he admitted that it would be a great consolation to the slave to find that his children were not to share his slavery. Therefore, having passed the first Resolution, he was ready to adopt the principle of the second. All that he doubted with respect to it was the risk incurred in the immediate emancipation of the child. It would take away the interest of the master in the child; and though the attachment of the parent would still remain, it was doubtful whether that would in every case be found sufficient for the due protection of the child. He would rather leave this as a matter of regulation for the Colonial Legislatures. He would, there-
 509
 Mr. Philip Howard  was aware of the interest which the Factory Bill had created not only at Carlisle, but he might almost say generally throughout England. At the same time that he felt all the difficulty of legislative interference, he took that occasion to observe that many of the manufacturers were anxious to do away with the melancholy system of night work in factories. It was likewise, he had good grounds for believing, the opinion of many, that the labour of children might without detriment to the trade, be restricted to eleven hours, but to the Ten Hours Bill, and to its minute and vexatious regulations nearly every branch of trade appeared to be decidedly opposed.
 Mr. James  presented the Petition of 800 persons of the Working Classes, inhabitants of the city of Carlisle, praying for the Abolition of Infant Slavery in Factories, and that the subject of the hours of employment of children in those places may be taken under the immediate consideration of the Legislature. They declared themselves satisfied of the necessity of legislative interference—and suggested, that infants, under a certain age, should not be employed at all; and that in all cases the hours of labour in factories should be limited to ten hours per day.
 Mr. Baring  had said, that, as it was admitted, that this was an experiment and a doubtful one, he thought it would be advisable to try its success partially; but he had never contemplated leaving a permanent state of slavery in any one of the islands.
 Mr. Hill  said, that as to the immediate emancipation of the negroes, he would honestly avow, that he had felt the great-
 527 tertium quid 528
 Mr. Stanley : I can assure the hon. Gentleman that I am paying every attention to the point.
 Mr. Halcombe  could not give his support to the third Resolution now under the consideration of the House, which entitled all the slave population to be registered as apprenticed labourers, subject to the service for a period now left indefinite with their present masters. Apprenticeship was not freedom. They talked of emancipation, but the slave would still be confined to one estate, and one master. He would not be allowed to choose his place of abode, nor his service. He had not yet heard any adequate explanation of this difficulty. They were at once declaring that the slave should be free, and they were continuing him in bondage. The slave, under these circumstances, would have no stimulus to labour. He would suggest the propriety of giving emancipation accompanied with regulations that should place the parties interested not in the relative condition of owner and slave, but in that of master and servant. He would also have it provided that either party should be empowered to put an end to the contract under certain conditions, as, for instance, on two years' notice being given to the masters by able bodied negroes of from twenty to thirty years of age, one year and a half's notice from those between thirty and forty years of age, and one year's notice from all exceeding the ago of forty years. By these means the colonies would be relieved from the dangers to be dreaded from an immediate and extensive change. He would also suggest, with reference to the children of the slaves, the propriety of a regulation that all slave children of six years of age and upwards should continue to be the apprenticed labourers of the planters until such time only as they became of full age, when they should be entitled to the same privilege of giving notice as he had before suggested. This plan would secure to the master the complete inclination and desire on the part of the negroes to continue to labour in the same plantations in which they were now employed. He was not one of those who lost sight of the claims of slave owners to compensation, but he was equally of opinion that a provision in the shape of a poor-law or otherwise should be made for the maintenance in their old age of the superannuated slave population, which so long contributed to the fortunes and benefited their owners. A charge had been made that the slaves would not labour if placed upon the footing of free labourers; but he was convinced, from the evidence upon the subject, that the charge was totally destitute of
 536 537
 Mr. Strickland  said, that he was sorry to see such a departure from the satisfactory state in which the question stood on the former night. Then a general disposition was manifested to lay aside all extreme opinions; and when the success of this, as the right hon. Secretary had himself, and very properly, called it, great experiment, so entirely depended, upon unanimity, the necessity of discarding extreme opinions, and uniting to render the plan as perfect as possible, must be obvious to every hon. Gentleman who gave the matter the least consideration. The Amendment of the hon. member for Weymouth would negative the Resolution of the right hon. Secretary, and thinking such a course to be most unwise he (Mr. Strickland) treated and implored his hon. friend not to press his Motion to a division. Those interested in the West Indies had set a laudable example of forbearance; and if they wished the planters and Colonial Assemblies to co-operate with Parliament, and without unanimity between all parties, the measure would be altogether impracticable, they must abandon their own peculiar views, and support the Government in carrying this mighty experiment into effect. He should support the Resolution because they would have the opportunity in Committee of limiting the duration of the apprenticeship to the shortest possible period; and he thought that gradual was preferable to immediate emancipation. The situation of the slaves throughout the colonies was by no means uniform; and although some might be prepared to receive their liberty, others were not in that condition. With respect to the hired gangs it was, he believed, absolutely necessary for the welfare of the negro to keep up the existing connexion between master and servant some few years longer, and hence it was, that he so strongly recommended unanimity in carrying this work of mercy which the Government had brought forward into effect.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  observed, that if any one thought his Majesty's Ministers had approached this subject without a perfect conviction that it was as awful a question as could possibly be touched upon, that man knew little of the deep anxiety which they had experienced. Whatever difficulties might present themselves to the minds
 538
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  proceeded. Admitting that the hon. member for Weymouth did not contemplate such an alternative as the destruction of the cultivation of sugar, he at least contended that in a state of freedom the negro would be physically and morally better than he was at present. He certainly was not prepared to adopt that opinion to its fullest extent. He readily admitted, that if the alternative was whether we should now enter on a system of cultivation which could be maintained only by barbarous and inhuman treatment, or abandon the commercial advantages of the undertaking, it would be a great stain upon the country to accept the former branch of that alternative. But in the present critical state of the West Indies, when interests so important were at stake, it would be perfectly indefensible upon mere abstract principles, to take a course which might derange the whole relations of society in the colonies, and hastily throw away all the advantages
 539
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, as to the first point mentioned, that of time, no one who voted for this Resolution would bind himself to the time mentioned by Government. Indeed, no one supposed that they could wish to bind the local Legislatures to this time, for he hoped that many of them would, for their own benefit, shorten the period. But looking to the eighteen colonies, placed as they were under different circumstances, he only wished that a time should be fixed beyond which they could not go. With respect to the inducement of wages, he was not quite so sanguine as the hon. member for Weymouth, but the principle that must be followed in this respect was, that if labour was given for wages, then that labour would be voluntary. Government, however, said, that the negroes should give a certain portion of time to their master, he finding them food, clothing, lodging, and medicine. It would, therefore, be inconsistent with the Government plan to give wages, as, if so, then Parliament might have to regulate their amount.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was partial slavery disguised under the name of apprentice-ships. It was an enormous practical blunder to suppose, that the proposed apprentices under that arrangement, could be anything else than slaves. The question simply resolved itself into one of freedom or slavery.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that before the Committee divided, he was anxious to make an alteration in the Resolution, in accordance with the suggestion of the hon. member for Lancashire. According to the Resolution as it stood, it would be optional with the negro to get himself registered, and merely become entitled to his freedom, or he might omit to claim this privilege, and deprive himself of the right to become free. He (Mr. Stanley) saw no objection to a total abrogation of the slave code, and he was therefore willing to word the Resolution in such a way as to compel all negroes to be registered, and thus to have them all put upon an equal footing. The right hon. Secretary then moved a verbal alteration to that effect, which was agreed to.
 Mr. O'Connell  would then move, that the words "for wages" be inserted.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the main principle of the plan having now been agreed to, it remained for him to propose that which was a necessary consideration in the introduction of this measure, and without a preliminary vote for which it would be impossible for them to proceed another step towards the abolition of negro slavery—he meant the compensation which, in justice and equity, that House was bound, and which he was confident the country would be ready cheerfully to pay, to those on whom they were entailing a necessary loss. In saying this he was well aware that there were many gentlemen who would be willing enough to pay to the present proprietors of West-Indian property such an amount of compensation as would cover the loss which they should ultimately be able to prove resulted from this measure; but in dealing with a question of such importance as the present, when they were taking away that which, (without entering into the question of abstract right, which he was unwilling to discuss), by the law of this country, had been recognized as property, and had been made the matter of sale and purchase, of incumbrance, mortgage, and family settlement—when they were dealing with this species of property, which was subject to the most complicated claims, the amount of which it was almost impossible to calcu-
 548 maximum 549 l l l l l 550 l l l l l l
 Mr. John Smith  said, that no man in that House had taken a deeper interest in the present question than he had done. He had been in business as a banker in this city for the last forty years, and he had an opportunity of observing and judging of the extent and importance of the West-India trade, and of its effects on our manufactures and commerce; and he must own, that he had never felt half the anxiety on any question that he had felt on this. He was, and always had been, an enemy to slavery in all forms, mental or personal; but he could not vote for the abolition of slavery in the West-Indies, if its abolition were to be coupled with the commission of an injustice. It would be unjust and base to liberate the slave with one hand, and with the other to condemn his friends and acquaintances to poverty, destitution, and misery. In this country there were many West-India proprietors whose children had now no means of acquiring education but in parish schools, and he himself had known a most amiable and virtuous lady of high rank reduced to utter distress. He could not condemn his fellow-subjects to this misery. He should, therefore, most readily vote in favour of the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. He should do this, not only for the reason he had just stated, but, also, because it was absolutely necessary to have the assistance of the West-Indians. Hon. Members
 552
 Mr. Stanley , under these circumstances consented not to press the question to a division then. He wished only to add, that whatever might be the amount of compensation, the money would not be paid till the details of the measure had been carried into effect by the Colonial Legislatures.
 Mr. Richards  seconded the Motion, and observed, that what his noble friend required was in accordance with the strict principles of justice.
 Colonel Conolly  should not have offered
 540 541
 Colonel Davies  thought it was too late an hour for a question of such magnitude to be discussed. He felt as much as any one the hardship upon the West-India planters, but, at the same time, he must recollect the people of this country. He must remember the burthens which they were weighed down with—he must recollect the manifestations of distress now unhappily too prevalent. Were they not only to refuse any remission of taxes, but even to lay fresh burthens upon the shoulders of the people? He must say, that he thought the system now proposed
 551 s
 Mr. Ronayne  thought very much extraneous matter had crept into the debate, as the real question was whether or not there should be immediate emancipation. Upon this point the arguments of the noble member for Northumberland appeared to him irrefragable, and the noble Lord's proposition was far better than the mongrel state which would be the result of the Resolution of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies.
 Mr. Herries  said, that he meant to follow the example of the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Macaulay), and would take another opportunity of stating his opinions more fully; but his great object in rising was, to state that, under all the circumstances, he felt himself unable to decide upon giving a vote at all. If hon. Members had listened to the debate they would have heard such conflicting testimonies respecting this Resolution, and they would have perceived that such were the difficulties with which the subject was surrounded, even in the minds of those whose duty it was to pay the most attention to it, that they were not in a condition to come to a just conclusion. At least he felt those difficulties so strongly, that he could not make up his mind to vote for the Resolution either in its original or mended shape.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had taken his information from an official document; and, if the assertion he had made was incorrect, the Return was the source of the error.
 Mr. Marryatt , being connected with the West-Indies, heartily wished for emancipation, if it could be accomplished. The question had formerly been taken up by a party careless and even reckless of what evils they might inflict. It had now assumed a different aspect. It was in the hands of a Government responsible for its consequences. The previous vote of the Committee had narrowed the question to the best means of accomplishing the object which must be kept in view—namely the welfare of the slave, joined with the continuation of sugar cultivation. By that alone could the interests of the proprietors, and the safety of the colonies, be effectually secured. Immediate emancipation, with a system of wages as proposed by the hon. member for Weymouth, was not calculated to promote the welfare of the slave; it was indispensable, also, for the success of the measure, that he should be for a time attached to the soil, and placed under restraint. He put it to the House whether
 529 530 531
 Mr. Marryatt  designated the petition as one arising entirely from electioneering disappointment. It ought to have been sent forward as a petition against the return of his Colleague, for its allegations went to affect his seat in that House—but then the petitioners well knew it would revert with all its expenses upon them as frivolous and vexatious.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  began by referring to the question of compensation, to which he declared himself opposed, because, if money were given to the planters, it would be lost, without the object in view being attained. It was useless to disguise the fact; but he and every man knew, that the great mass of the West-India estates were mortgaged for more than they were worth; and if they gave money to the planters, it would only go to redeem their estates.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  would not then pursue that topic; and would confine himself to the Resolution before the Committee. He would declare himself decidedly in favour of gradual emancipation. He conceived it possible to confine the negroes to the estates, and give them adequate wages and food. How that was to be done was the principal question; and if that could be done, it would get rid of many objections. There must be, he admitted, some stimulus to labour, after the use of the whip was done away; and what could that be but adequate wages? It could not be expected that the negroes should labour without wages; and the point of difficulty was, whether the planters would have the means of paying them, and it had been said they would not, because the planters at present had no profits, and wages must be in proportion to profits. This he denied. Wages were not regulated by profits in the manufactures of this country, nor in any part of the world. They were regulated by another principle. The test or rule for wages was, he was sorry to say, in all cases, and in all countries, the maintenance of the labourer; and what would support
 532
 Mr. Slaney  observed, that he had never in his parliamentary experience approached the discussion of a question of such extreme
 533 534
 Mr. Buxton : In the beginning, the planters said a great deal about what was to be feared from having a body of free and reckless negroes mixed up with those that were not freed. But what was the next account of them? It was given in
 521 522 523 524
 Mr. Buxton  had not made any such statement. What he had said was, that if justice were incompatible with the cultivation of sugar, he should prefer justice to sugar.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, if the hon. Gentleman asserted this fact, he could not question his authority, and therefore he (Mr. Buxton) must be wrong, and the hon. member for Middlesex must be right. That hon. Gentleman, however, thought he was proceeding upon a general principle when he contended for the abolition of flogging
 518
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  had never supposed that the hon. Member could imagine a state of permanent slavery. But he had told them they were well meaning but foolish men, and he had told them to begin their plan at Trinidad, and then to try its success upon Jamaica. But Jamaica, it was clear, was on the eve of an insurrection, and the House were to decide whether the slaves there should be emancipated by the ordinary course of the law or otherwise. The hon. member for Lancaster had told the House that one great objection to emancipating the slaves was, that when they should be emancipated they would not work. Now he would proceed to show, that the slaves, on the contrary, when free, would maintain themselves and their families. The reason why they did not work now was, because they were not to he paid. The hon. member for Essex, he believed said, free labour was cheaper than slave labour; at least the member for Lancaster laid down that principle broadly, and said, free labour would be a source of its much advantage to the master as to the slave. He would, therefore, take this for granted. They said, however, that the negro was incorrigible; that he could not be induced to work. Now in answer to this he would mention a few cases. The first he should take was that alluded to the other night by the hon. member for Mid-
 519 l 520
 Mr. Buxton  said, he felt great difficulty in abandoning his Amendment, but at the same time he felt equal reluctance in dividing the Committee. He did not like to put himself in opposition to a Government which had done so much, particularly as it was understood that he was not to be pledged as to the period of apprenticeship. Although he was not satisfied that it was right, he should not call for a division.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  was as desirous as his hon. friend could be for unanimity, but He would ask whether he understood the right hon. Secretary correctly in supposing that the question of time was left open? " Yes from Mr. Stanley
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  hoped, that it would be needless for him to disclaim any feeling of hostility towards his Majesty's Government in the course which he was about to pursue; on the contrary, he declared that no Gentleman felt more sincerely the obligations which he and those who took the same view of the question which he did, owed to his Majesty's present Government, who had placed the case of the slaves in a new position, and who had, he frankly declared, done more towards the advancement of the cause of the slaves, than any Administration which had preceded them. The hon. member for Essex (Mr. Baring), had thought it his duty to tell them on the preceding evening, that this was a subject of great importance. He was glad to have received the admonition of the hon. Gentleman on all subjects, but on this least of all, because it spoke for itself. The hon. Member had threatened the House with a revulsion in the public feeling, and that his name, with those of his friends, would be hereafter held up to execration, for having exerted themselves on this question. Now, it was to him a matter of very little importance, as to what light he might be held up in, provided that object were effected which applied to so many hundreds of thousands of his fellow men. They were told, that the consequence of the emancipation of the slaves must be to inflict an injury upon the West-India planters; and, of course, that it would occasion a great loss to the revenue. He admitted, that these were important considerations; but he was by no means sure that such reasonings would be conclusive with him, even if he were convinced of the result. He admitted the importance of these considerations, but was compelled to view the case as deeply injuring the cause of humanity. That was, in his mind, a much more important consideration than any that could be urged on the opposite side. But the hon. member for Essex, also, told the House, that if those who advocated immediate emancipation succeeded in their object, they would promote insurrections in the West Indies. No man in the House could dread insurrection
 517
 Mr. Gisborne  must say, that he did not think it fair in the right hon. Gentleman to call on the House to come to a vote on this question now. The House had no means of judging of the question now. The right hon. Gentleman had three times changed his course. At first he proposed to lend the West-Indians fifteen millions. He (Mr. Gisborne) must say, that he thought it a pretty strong step when the right hon. Gentleman came down and
 553
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, that the high tone, a tone by no means becoming on such a subject, which pervaded the hon. Member's speech, was calculated to discourage other hon. Members from expressing their individual opinions with regard to it. His Majesty's Government justly spoke with authority upon the matter, but the hon. Member with an  ex-cathedra 525 526 l l
 Mr. Macaulay  stated, that he would not go at length into the great question of slavery at present, but would reserve to himself the right, on a future occasion, of stating his opinions fully. He rose solely for the purpose of stating how far he felt himself bound by the assent he should give to the Resolution before the House. He would vote for the Resolution as it now stood, which went to hold the negroes under the obligation of labouring for their present masters, subject to certain restrictions. The question of the period of twelve years, or of any other period, or of remuneration, was not before them at present. All these questions were out of this Resolution, which he believed was so worded as to unite as many votes as possible in its favour. He, therefore, could not vote on this point against the Resolution, and he wondered that the hon. member for Weymouth should oppose it, when he had within this very week given notice of a Resolution almost in the terms of this motion—namely, that the liberated negroes should work for the space of one year for their masters. If that Motion were passed, then there was a Resolution as to a certain time during which the negroes should continue to give their labour. Seeing, therefore, that there was now no question either of time or of labour, or of remuneration, in the present Resolution, highly as he valued the authority of his hon. friend, he could not decide on this occasion in conformity to it.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to reply, but it being past three o'clock, the debate was adjourned.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to present a Petition, which he considered of high importance, containing, as it did, charges of a very grave and serious nature against an hon. Member of that House. The petition was from certain electors of Sandwich, complaining that Sir Thomas Troubridge had, by means of a forged copy of the registry of his baptism, and a false certificate of his age, fraudulently obtained his commission as Lieutenant, Commander, and Captain, before he was even qualified, according to the King's Orders in Council, to be a Lieutenant, thereby feloniously obtaining the pay of the said commission, and the half-pay of Captain, the amount of which was between 5,000 l l 511 512
 Sir Edward Codrington  seconded the Motion, which being put as an Amendment, with the original Motion that the petition do lie upon the Table,
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  spoke as follows: I trust, on so serious and grave a charge being brought against me, the House will allow me to occupy a few moments of their time in explanation, and I hope I shall be able to show to their satisfaction, that this petition arises solely from private disappointment in an election contest, and not from any public motive whatever. To explain this, I beg to state a few facts that occurred at the last election for the borough which I have the honour to represent. On the dissolution of the last Parliament, a person by the name of Edwards, totally unconnected with Sandwich, went down to that town, and, assisted by Captain Owen, applied to the Mayor and Jurats for a warrant to arrest me on a charge of having fraudulently obtained money on the high seas, his charge being, that my
 513 514
 Sir James Graham  said, that after the very satisfactory explanation which bad been given by the hon. and gallant Baronet, it might be perhaps considered almost unnecessary for him to say a word. But standing in the relation which he did to the gallant service to which the hon. Baronet belonged, he should consider himself wanting in duty to the public, if be did not address a few words to the House. It was true that the hon. Member who had presented the petition had apprized him of his intention of doing so. But he could not help expressing his great astonishment that he should have thought fit to make himself the channel of an imputation, calculated not only to deeply wound the feelings of the living, but to cast a slur on some of the greatest naval heroes that England had produced. He held in his hand a list of not less than thirty-nine naval officers who had gained their promotion under circumstances identically the same as those which had been complained of. The Order in Council of 1746 had been considered at the Admiralty as a dead letter—no notice having been latterly taken of the age of a young man previous to promoting him to a Lieutenancy. In time of war it was considered improvident to act upon the order, and young men were promoted from a midshipman to a Lieutenancy. Of the thirty-nine officers he had referred to, he would read the names of some. First was Nelson, who had obtained a Lieutenancy at eighteen; then followed Lord Exmouth, Sir Henry Hotham, Sir William Hoste, and Captain Edward Pellew, all of whom had attained promotion at very early ages. Was the hon. Member aware of the character of the individual he had attacked, or of his distinguished father? The gallant Baronet's father was the distinguished bosom friend of Lord Nelson. He was his right arm, and had never failed him in the hour of need. He had fallen in the service of his country, and was it too much to say that his son had claims on that country? The hon. Member bad stated, that he had great attachment to the naval service of
 515
 Lord Althorp  reported the Answer of his Majesty to the late Address of the Commons upon the subject of our relations with Portugal, which was as follows. "I have received with great satisfaction the expression of your concurrence in the policy which I have pursued with reference to the affairs of Portugal; and you may be assured that, continuing to act on the same principles, I will neglect no opportunity in which my power and influence may be usefully and honourably exerted for putting an end to the contest which unhappily exists in that country."
 Lord Althorp  said, that the great advantage which would result from the system of apprenticeship he conceived to be this—that as the amount of compulsory labour which the master would obtain from the slave would be insufficient for the cultivation of his estate, he would be compelled to bargain with him for the time which was at his own disposal, and thus the negro would gradually be taught habits of industry, and would learn to appreciate the advantages which would result from his engaging in labour. His noble friend was right in stating, that the Government entertained a strong objection to the other Resolutions being sent out to the colonies without that which pledged the House to establish a system of apprenticeship. There would, however, be no danger in failing to carry the Resolution into effect, if, upon subsequent consideration, the House should determine upon that course, although he confessed he should be very sorry that they should do so. There was one consideration which did not appear to have struck the advocates of unconditional emancipation. In some of the islands the slaves were supported entirely by the provision-grounds, which by law belonged to the masters; though from long usage he believed the slaves thought that they were their property. In the event of emancipation the proprietors would endeavour to regain possession of these grounds, and the danger which would arise from such a proceeding would be far greater than any which could result from the plan Government had proposed. By the present plan there would be not merely the inducement of freedom at the end of a certain period, but also the power of shortening this time by their own earnings. It had been said in the course of the debate that negroes would not work for wages; but he would ask, what proof had there been given that negroes so far differed from every other human creature? And when the hon. member for Weymouth so convincingly argued
 544
 Lord Althorp  said, that he could not be a party to slavery, though he had no objection to being a party to apprenticeship.
 Lord Althorp  rose to order. The hon. Member was speaking to the question of compensation, which was not the subject before the Committee, and would be discussed hereafter.
 Lord Howick  said, it was quite plain that Government could not agree to the proposition of the hon. member for Weymouth, consistently with the plan which had been developed to the House. He was glad to find, that his right hon. friend who spoke last, had clearly shown the difference between the proposition of the on, member for Weymouth and the plan of his Majesty's Ministers, than which no two things could be more dissimilar. Nothing could be more obvious than that the plan of the Government was a modified continuance of slavery. He was anxious to impress this particularly on the House, that they were then called upon to vote whether they would or would not keep the negroes three parts slaves, for compulsory labour in consideration of food, clothing, and lodging; was neither more nor less than slavery?
 Lord Howick  said, he was one of those who thought it desirable that persons holding various opinions upon this question should, as far as possible, proceed together. With these views he bad on a former evening advised the hon. member for Sheffield to withdraw his amendment, although be entirely concurred in its principle, and in the same manner he would not now support the Amendment moved by the hon. member for Dover, although he thought it preferable to the third Resolution. Beyond that, however, he could not go; and he regretted that his right hon. friend bad not felt it in his power to comply with the suggestion which he (Lord Howick) threw out on Friday, to abstain from pressing the third Resolution. Some hon. Members had objected to the course which the hon. member for Weymouth had pursued in resisting the Resolution without proposing any
 542 543
 Sir Hussey Vivian  said, that, as a member of the service, he felt called upon to say a few words. He felt sorry to see a petition like the present brought under the notice of the House by an hon. Member who set himself up as a pattern of every thing that was pure and correct. He would undertake to say, that no Gentleman besides the hon. Member, out of the 658 Gentlemen sitting in that House, would have any other opinion with respect to this petition, than that it should be kicked out of the House. It was a most gross libel not only on the living but the dead. The hon. Member had said yesterday that the defeats during the American war had been the result of improper management. He had had the curiosity of looking into the works of that hon. Member, and by those he found that the hon. Member had but lately imbibed those sentiments. In 1814 the hon. Member attributed those defeats to the superiority of the American seamen. The petition should be rejected as frivolous and vexatious.
 Captain Elliott  was sorry to trouble the House at that late hour, but he had a duty to perform, both on his own account and on that of his brother officers. He would at once state, that the plan complained of was at the time a necessary one, for there were no other means of obtaining a proper supply of officers. He had looked a little into the subject since it had been brought before the House, and he found that in the six years previous to 1800 there had been 900 appointments to the rank of Lieutenant; and he further found that so great was the drain upon that rank, that at the end of six years it had only added 200 to the number of such officers; he further found, that during the first four of those six years, 900 had been appointed, out of which there were only nine names connected with the Aristocracy. So much for the statements of the hon. member for Oldham, that the system was for the exclusive benefit of the higher classes. So very great was the
 563 Cobbett 564
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that the hon. member for Bath, after he had been a little longer a Member of that House, would find that hon. Members were answerable for the statements in the petitions which they presented, more especially when they cast such calumnies as the present did upon the character of individuals. He admitted, that the representatives of the people were, in duty, bound to present the petitions of the
 566
 Mr. Ruthven  was as much indisposed as any man to receive petitions that could not be duly presented to the House, and he objected to the reception of the present petition, because it contained unbecoming language toward the gallant Officer opposite. He did not believe the statements made in the petition.
 Mr. Robinson  begged to congratulate the House, in the first instance, in having carried the principle, that slavery should be abolished in our colonies. He was confident that the effect of its abolition there would be remotely, if not very soon, the abolition of slavery also in the United States, and in other places where it at present existed. With regard to the question of compensation, which was the only one they had now to consider, he would say, certainly, that, taking into account the sacrifice which would be made by the West-India body, something would be undoubtedly due to them from the people of this country. He was glad that his Majesty's Ministers had adopted the plan of probationary instead of immediate emancipation. If the people of England were sincerely and zealously anxious for the accomplishment of the great object of the abolition of slavery, they should cheerfully pay that amount of compensation which was justly due for the sacrifice thereby occasioned to the properties and fortunes of individuals. Though, there might be no objection to the principle of compensation, there might be a great objection to the mode in which it was proposed that the money should be raised. He, for one would never object to bear his fair proportion, as an individual, of this burthen; but he feared that when the enthusiasm of the people of England on this sub ect subsided they would entertain different feelings, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be obliged to levy 800,000 l l 575
 Lord Althorp  did not rise to speak to the question generally on this occasion, but he was anxious to take the first opportunity to make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the hon. member for Worcester. The hon. Member was right in saying that they were not now called upon to decide in what way this sum was to be raised—that was to be decided hereafter. If, however, the House should decide that a grant should be made they would be bound in some way or other to make that grant good. The hon. Member said, that generally the opinion of the people of England had not been expressed on this particular part of the question. Now, that opinion had been strongly expressed in the numerous petitions which had been presented to the House, in which the people stated their readiness to grant any sum of money which might be necessary to carry such a measure into effect. He felt confident that the people of this country, seeing the sacrifice which would be occasioned by carrying of this measure, would not object to the granting such an amount of compensation as that which was now proposed. It should be always recollected by the House that this money would be granted, and only would be paid, when this measure was actually carried into effect. They did not propose to grant this money to the West-Indian body, and then to leave it to the West-Indian Legislatures to carry the provisions of this measure into effect; the money was not only to be granted on the condition that the measure would be carried into effect, but it was not to be paid until after that condition had been fulfilled. He should not enter further into the general question at present, as, no doubt, he would be frequently called upon to address the Committee upon it during the course of the debate, but he had thought it necessary at once to apply himself, as he had done, to the observations of the hon. member for Worcester.
 Mr. Charles Buller,  though as desirous as any man for universal liberty, could not but consider that this was a question intimately interesting to the people, and it was the duty of every honest representative
 576 577 578
 Mr. Pryme  agreed in the principles of the right hon. Secretary's plan, but not in all the details, and he regretted that those details had been so much entered into, because that was calculated to promote delay. He considered that the right hon. Secretary's rate of compensation was too high. He had entered into a considerable number of calculations, and he believed that seventeen instead of twenty millions would be a full compensation to the planters, at the greatest value of their property. The planters were at present in great distress; but he was convinced a great part of that distress was caused by their own fault It was proved before the Committee which sat in 1807, that from
 579 580
 Major Beauclerk  did not intend to trouble the House at any length. He regretted that he felt himself bound to vote against the proposition before the Committee, for he could not help giving the greatest possible credit to his Majesty's Ministers for the manly manner in which they had brought forward and grappled with the difficulties of this very difficult question. He could not, however, support a grant of 20,000,000 l l
 Viscount Sandon  observed, that he would not trespass upon the attention of the Committee for any great length of time. Many objections had been urged by hon. Gentlemen to others equally as honourable who were of opinion that the West-India planters had not a property in the slaves. Now, if they had not, whence came the first motion of compensation for the losses of the planters by the fact of the emancipation of the slaves? In his opinion, however, under the present circumstances, the more prudent course for all the parties interested to pursue, would be that of conciliation; for in any other case, neither could tell the consequences which might very speedily ensue. Surrounded as this great question was with difficulties, it must be evident to every one, that the Legislature was bound to proceed in the most cautious manner. A false step now committed could not be easily remedied, even at no very distant day. Many apprehensions were to be overcome in the case of the negro, as well as in that of the planter, and it was only to a gradual transition in the condition of either that the objects of both could be really and fairly accomplished. Suppose the compensation required for the planter was to be stated merely at seventeen millions and a-half, why, he would ask, would not the payment of that sum be considered as an extremely profitable bargain, if it could be made the means of securing an accommodation between the parties." Suppose a little increase would more easily secure it, ought much difficulty to prevail respecting it?" He would not object to the measure of compensation proposed to be given to the planters, provided it could be made apparent that such a sum as 20,000,000 l l l l l l l 582 l l l
 Mr. Jervis  was perfectly ready to give to the West-India proprietors such just and fair compensation as they were really entitled to; but he would give them no more. He, however, could not understand how it was, that they laid claim to compensation as a matter of right, or that the Government were to give such a sum of the public money for the purchase of conciliation, at a period when the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) absolutely refused to remit to the people of England any portion of the heavy taxation under which they suffered. If the people had been aware that slave emancipation was to be obtained at an expense like this to their own country, they most assuredly would have paused before they crowded the Table of that House with petitions on the subject. When they did know the means by which it was to be accomplished, he was satisfied in his own mind that many of them, if the opportunity were afforded to them, would revoke the appeals which they had made. But, after the Resolution they had passed, the House might be considered pledged to the abolition of slavery; and the only question that remained to be determined, was, what amount of compensation were the planters entitled to receive. They had not been fully informed upon this part of the case, nor had it been stated how, or by what means, such a sum as that proposed to be given was to be raised. But it should not be forgotten, that compensation was to be made, and a large sum raised at a time when the noble Lord refused to take off the Malt-duty, or the House and Window-tax, without a substitute like the Property
 583 l l l l l l 584 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that two attacks had been made upon the Government that evening, the latter of which he felt himself called upon to lose no time in noticing. In the early stages of the discussion, one class of reasoners had professed the most extraordinary anxiety to see the termination of slavery, professing at the same time the most violent attachment to liberty in the abstract, but wishing justice to be done to all parties; but he was afraid, that if the slaves had depended on their exertions for their emancipation, they would have experienced but little advantage. It had now met the opposition of a class of persons adopting a similar style of reasoning, though professing to take a different view of the question. These latter individuals had not the least objection to compensation in the abstract, though they were ready enough to find objections to any particular application. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to belong to this class of reasoners; for, while he professed his willingness to grant compensation in the abstract, he evinced no desire to satisfy those whom it was no less the duty, than the interest of that House, to coneiliate. He did not doubt that compensation in the abstract ought to be given; but, agreeing with those who thought the advantage of the planters would be promoted by free labour, he seemed to imagine that they were the parties by whom it ought to be paid. The calculations into which the hon. Gentleman had entered, were, to him (Mr. Stanley), altogether unintelligible; for he was
 585 586 l l l l l 587 l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Richard Potter  said, he felt as great
 588 l l l l
 Mr. Clay  had been favourably situated for ascertaining the opinions of a great number of persons on this subject, and he could assert, that the people of this country never contemplated emancipation unaccompanied by compensation to the planters. The West-Indian proprietors had no claim against the negroes, but they had against the mother country. He agreed with the right hon. Secretary as to the necessity of granting emancipation, and also in the opinion that emancipation ought not to take place without compensation. He would go further, and say that compensation ought not to be dealt out with a niggardly hand. On the contrary, he would assert, that the country had no right to indulge in the luxury of doing good at the expense of others. There was one branch of the subject which had not been alluded to, but which was of paramount importance to the people of England. He would grant a liberal compensation to the West-Indian planters, but, in return, he demanded that the colonial trade should be relieved from the shackles which were imposed upon it. The sugar refiners of this country were at present nearly overwhelmed with ruin, from no other cause
 589 l s s s l
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, the right hon. Gentleman had last night stated, that no sum should be paid to the planters, until the whole of the proposed regulations were carried into effect. He (Mr. Buxton) presumed that that meant until the apprenticeships had expired. His object was, if possible, to reduce the term of those apprenticeships. There was one point on which they must all agree—namely, that; the sooner the negro mind could be brought; under the action of healthy motives, the
 590
 Mr. Godson  congratulated the House upon the prospect of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion of this important question, and was glad to find, that in the end the planters were to be the subjects of a word of kindness from the; hon. member for weymouth. He believed that the term of apprenticeships would be much shorter than that named by the right hon. Secretary; for, as the hon. member for Weymouth and those who acted under him would never cease to agitate the colonies while an apprentice remained, he thought that two or three years would be the longest terra they would have to serve, as their masters would be very glad to be relieved from them. About Christmas twelvemonth, probably, in Jamaica the whole of the apprenticeships would be at an end. The grant now proposed would enable the planter's to effect this, if, as he expected, they should receive the additional assistance of votes of credit; he did not mean to be advanced to the planters, but to be employed upon the necessary internal improvement of the colony. The news of the proposed measures in that colony had already been attended with good effect, in
 591 s d l
 Mr. Ewart  entirely concurred in the opinions of the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets. He was quite willing to grant compensation to the planter, on condition that that measure should be accompanied with a stipulation for the unrestricted liberty of commerce. Every day that we remained at peace, the removal of the West-India monopoly became not only more politic, but more indispensable; for if it were not removed, we should be unable long to compete in the market with foreign nations.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was not disposed to give the planter a shilling in the form of compensation, until it was proved that a loss had been sustained. He utterly denied the validity of the arguments which had been urged on the subject upon a former night by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman; and he would endeavour to prove to the Committee that those arguments were entirely unfounded. The hon. Member quoted a variety of opinions to show that it had been held that compensation was not to be given to individuals for loss of property occasioned by a measure which was to promote the general
 592 
 1. That every negro who shall register himself as an apprentice to the estate where he now resides, for the terms hereinafter mentioned, shall be free. If between the ages of seven and twelve, the terra of fourteen years; between twelve and fifteen, ten years; between fifteen and twenty, seven years; between twenty and twenty-five, five years; between twenty-five and upwards, five years, or for life, at option of negro. 2. That, at the expiration of such respective terms, the apprentice shall be at liberty to work wherever he pleases. 3. That his most gracious Majesty may appoint an officer in each of the colonies to act as police Magistrate and protector of apprentices. 4. That such officer shall fix the rate of wages to be paid to the apprentice, either as individuals or in classes, and shall also receive a portion of such wages for the maintenance of aged and infirm negroes. 5. That such officer shall have power to extend the respective terms of apprenticeship upon its being satisfactorily proved that the apprentice has neglected his work. 6. That such officer shall have power to advance to each proprietor, who shall request such advance, a weekly sum for the payment of wages, corresponding to the number of apprentices upon his estate. 7. That all such advances shall constitute the first lien upon the produce of the estate. 8. That the expense of such efficient police establishment as shall be recommended by the local legislature in each island shall be borne as follows; one-half by a tax on property in each island, the remainder out of the produce of sugar-duties paid in this country. 9. That such property-tax shall constitute the second lien upon the produce of the estate. 10. That the expense of a general system of moral and religious education shall be defrayed out of the surplus revenues of the Irish Church Establishment.
 Lord Althorp  could easily imagine how those who agreed with the hon. member for Weymouth that the negro should be at once entirely emancipated without any probationary period of preparation, might consistently vote for that hon. Member's Amendment; but for the very same reason he could not see on what ground the advocates
 593 594
 Viscount Howick,  in supporting the amendment of his hon. friend (Mr. Buxton), did not thereby mean to negative the principle of compensation. Neither did he mean to formally resist its actual amount—though he was satisfied it was much higher than was necessary, or than the West-India interest could have been brought to accede to—because he agreed with his noble friend as to the desirableness of their having the cordial aid of the local legislatures in carrying their views into effect. All that he wanted was, that they should not expend so large a sum of the public money without insuring the public the greatest advantages of the outlay. Now, he conceived the proposition of his hon. friend was well calculated to attain this end, as it went to make the payment of half of the compensation dependent upon the  bonâ fide
 Sir Robert Inglis  cordially supported the Ministerial proposition, and would most willingly bear his share of the necessary burthen.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  would vote for the Motion, on the understanding that
 595
 Colonel Evans  said, that the country would view the proposition about the 20,000,000 l l
 Mr. Pease  could not consent to the vote then under the consideration of the Committee, when he remembered the circumstances under which it was proposed, and when, at the same time, he bore in mind, that, of necessity, it could not prove of any essential benefit to the West-India body. In his judgment, the House could not, with any propriety, agree to any plan of compensation until the great measure of abolition was carried into effect. If they thus agreed to compensation in the first instance, all the money would go into the hands of the mortgagees, and those who were the owners of slaves, would derive no advantage from the arrangement.
 Mr. Baring  rose to address the House which manifested great impatience. He said, that the House was often perfectly patient under the most lengthened arguments on the most trumpery salaries, and therefore he thought it was scarcely becoming in the House to manifest impatience when a sum of 20,000,000 l l A laugh 596
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that he entertained great respect for the hon. member for Essex but he entertained still higher respect for the House, and was anxious to save its time. It had then been sitting from six o'clock till twelve; and, though the hon. member for Essex might have been very agreeably employed—more agree ably than in listening to debates in that House—yet perhaps it would have been more becoming in him to address himself to the matter really under consideration, than to treat it with such indecent levity. The hon. Gentleman had told them, that he wanted to know the arguments by which the promoters of the measure had supported their views: if he did feel such an anxiety upon the subject, he had much better have attended in his place, and have listened to the statements and observations made on that side of the House. He was sure the House would not consent that those arguments should be repeated, even if any one were disposed to indulge the hon. Member with the repetition of them. In the course of to-morrow, the greater part of their constituents would be made aware of all that had taken place that night upon the question before the House; and he really
 597
 Mr. Briscoe , amidst loud cries of Question," objected to more than fifteen millions being granted, indeed, he thought eight or nine would be sufficient for the purpose. At the same time that he begged it to be understood that he was the advocate of a fair and liberal compensation.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  stated, that the packet had been detained that it might carry out to the colonies the decision of Parliament on the propositions of Government, and he therefore felt bound to press the next Resolution:—"That his Majesty be enabled to defray any such expense as he may incur in establishing an efficient stipendiary magistracy in the colonies, and in aiding the local legislatures in providing for the religious and moral education of the negro population to be emancipated."
 Mr. Baring  objected to any additional expense whatever.
 Mr. Buxton , late as it was, must propose the introduction, in the latter part of the Resolution, of the words, "on liberal and comprehensive principles."
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that as it was not the wish of Government that any exclusive system of religious education should be adopted, he had no objection to the introduction of the proposed words.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  proposed the following Resolution:—"That whatever expense may be incurred in carrying into effect the plan proposed by Government, shall be defrayed by a tax on property in this country."
 Colonel Evans  suggested to the hon. member for Oldham to withdraw the Petition. The right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had unnecessarily evinced a degree of soreness at the attack on an officer in the service, for he (Colonel Evans) thought that, so far from an officer's reputation being injured by such a discussion, it would be benefited. That was his opinion, as a general principle. As to the hon. and gallant Officer (Sir Thomas Troubridge), he admired his conduct, having had the honour of serving with him during the war. And he also thought that gallant Officer entitled to some regard from the great merits of his father. The cause, however, of his addressing the House was, in consequence of having been requested by some of his constituents to do so. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to the promotion of boys in the navy; he did not mean to complain of that; but he could assure him that in the army, promotions highly culpable had taken place. He did not make this observation with regard to himself, but as it related to brother officers, who had had young men placed over them after most arduous duty on their part.
 Mr. O' Connell  rose to oppose the Motion. This concern was one of the greatest bubbles ever promulgated even in Ireland, a greater bubble than any of the canals, or even that of the St. Patrick Insurance Company, which had ruined so many people. He said this as Chairman of the committee which had sat upon the Bill. That Committee had reported, that the preamble of the Bill was not proved, although the agent for the Bill had had the audacity to tell the noble Lord that it had been proved. What the noble Lord ought to have done was, to have shown that the preamble had been proved, but he had not, because he could not do so. The Company was formed, in 1830, as a public Company, with the intention of getting the public money; and it was curious, that only eight days after the passing of the act in 1831, they had obtained an order from the Commissioners for 75,000 l l 568
 Mr. Sham  felt himself placed under rather peculiar circumstances with regard to the question. He was a member of the Committee, but was not able to bestow upon its duties as much attention as he desired. He was bound, however, to admit, that from such consideration as he had it in his power to give the subject, he was inclined to support the Bill, and had he been present at the vote which was now appealed from, he should have been in the minority. But he considered it a very different question whether or not the House would reverse the decision deliberately come to by the Committee—the intention of the House in passing the Resolution under which the appeal was made being clearly not to correct any error in judgment of a Committee sitting on a private Bill, but to control any impropriety in their conduct; and on principle he was always strongly opposed to withdrawing from the ordinary tribunal the decision of a case within its competency. Though his Judgment differed from that of the majority, he did not on that account feel justified in drawing their judgment into question. Nor was he prepared to give a vote condemnatory of and necessarily casting a censure upon, their proceedings. He was sorry so much feeling had been mixed with the case. The petition brought a charge of canvassing against the opponents of the Bill. Now he must say, that if solicitations to attend the Committee be properly termed canvassing, he found such made stronger on the part of the promoters of the Bill than on the other; but so far as regarded soliciting Members to give their
 572
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that the petition stated, that evidence had been given by which the preamble of the Bill was fully proved, but that nevertheless the Committee decided, that it was not proved. The petition referred the House to the evidence, and maintained that the House was unable to come to a sound decision on the subject until the evidence taken before the Committee should be laid on the table.
 Captain Yorke  supported the Motion for the rejection of the petition on two grounds; the technical allegations of the petition were undoubtedly true, and the petition was respectfully worded; but at the end of it a gallant officer, and a Member of that House, was charged virtually with felony, although there was nothing in the body of the petition to support such a charge; secondly, the grievance complained of in the petition had been long ago remedied, and therefore there was nothing in the petition to grant. He thought the hon. member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett) if he had refrained from bringing forward such sweeping charges would have shown better taste than he had ever yet shown in that House. The charges he had made against Captain Dacre were most unfounded, as every person at all acquainted with that gallant officer was aware.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that notwithstanding his connexion with the noble Lord, the proprietor of Kingstown, he felt no difficulty whatever in expressing an opinion on the subject, inasmuch as he considered the prosecution of the work as calculated to confer benefits on the public, totally extrinsic and independent of those which it might be supposed would accrue to the noble proprietor of the town. It appeared to him, that the mode in which hon. Members had argued the question was not the just and proper one, for a great deal had been said as to the judiciousness of the undertaking. Now, he considered, that the question with which the House had to deal was not whether the persons who engaged in the undertaking in 1831 had acted judiciously or not; but the subject matter for their consideration really was, whether now, when time had overcome many of the difficulties which at first existed—now that Lord Cloncurry and Sir Harcourt Lees had withdrawn their opposition—whether or no the railway was to be constructed, at a saving of 18,000 l 571
 Admiral Fleming  said, with reference to the statement made by the hon. member for Oldham, of the number of Lieutenants out of employment, when his hon. friend (Sir Thomas Troubridge) was appointed a Lieutenant, that his hon. friend was then on the East-India station it was during the war; and he could assure the House, that he had often even in the time of peace, on the east and western coast, been in great want of officers.
 Lord Oxmantown.  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition respecting the Dublin and Kingstown Railway Bill, for the purpose of having it referred to a Select Committee up stairs. It was fortunate for him, in bringing forward this subject, to be under no necessity of touching on debateable ground. He was certain, that there were facts admitted on all hands, which would be quite sufficient to induce the House to accede to his Motion for inquiry on this subject. The facts were simply these—In 1831, an act was passed for the construction of a railway between Dublin and Kingstown. That work was now in progress, and 75,000 l 567
 Lord Oxmantown , in reply, observed that the petition stated, that certain members of the Committee had determined to throw out the Bill at all hazards [" Name 573
 Mr. Christopher Fitzsimon  said, he had paid great attention to the whole evidence, and it was, his conscientious belief, that this work, if completed, would not be productive of public benefit. If any person could be benefited by it more than another, it was himself, because it would shorten the road from his property to the city of Dublin full seven miles.
 Mr. Harvey  did not sec the same objections to the presentation of such a petition as had been made, because it not unfrequently happened that individuals suffered under a secret and undefined imputation of much greater amount than they could possibly endure, by the bringing forward of a charge in such a way as not to give full opportunity to have it rebutted. Looking at the circumstances in this point of view, he could not but congratulate the hon. and gallant Officer on the opportunity which had been afforded to him to negative the charges which had been brought against him. Had he (Mr. Harvey) been asked out of that House if he knew a gallant Officer, who was a Member of the House, and (the gallant Officer having been mentioned by name) that he was charged with having committed a forgery, he could not have avoided feeling a prejudice against the gallant Officer, which such a discussion as the present could not fail to have removed. But he thought it harsh and most unjust that any sentiment should be entertained towards the hon. Member who had presented the petition, after the discussion was concluded, other than that which was entertained towards the hon. and gallant Officer. And it should be borne in mind, that such Members of that House who were supposed, like the hon. member for Oldham, to represent particularly, but not exclusively, those classes whose employment was of a subordinate description—
 562
 Mr. Roebuck  did not wish to enter into the question of the character of naval officers, but he must say, that he thought the conduct of the hon. member for Oldham, in presenting the petition, was quite correct. He denied the responsibility of hon. Members for the statements in the petitions they presented. He trusted the House would pause before it rejected the petition.
 Mr. John Talbot  thought, that the undertaking would be of the greatest possible benefit. He believed that all the most material parts of the preamble of the Bill had been proved, though he was willing to admit, that it was not clearly proved, that the required portion of the shares had been subscribed for. One of the greatest evils that afflicted Ireland was, the wan, of capital and the consequent employment of labour, and as there had been, in his opinion, a  primâ facie 570
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that, after the severe shots which had been fired against him, he
 559 No, no 560 Graham 561
 Mr. Cobbett : The hon. Member had certainly seconded the adjournment of the debate, but he thought that he should first wait to see if any other hon. Member intended to speak on the question.
 Mr. Cobbett  objected to the hon. Member speaking on the adjourned debate.
 Mr. William Roche : The statement of ray hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin (who has just sat down), in reference to the non-production, by the promoters of the Bill, of formal or official proof of the actual payment of the 160,000 l 569 l
 The Speaker  was sure that the noble Lord did not mean that he (the Speaker) should give an opinion on the merits of the question before the House, but merely that he should endeavour, as far as his judgment went, to put the House in possession of his opinion of the origin and intention of this plan of referring the Petition to the Committee of Appeals. He took it for granted that it never was intended that this should be a new mode of trying the merits of any question: the only meaning could have been to give redress to persons complaining of irregularities before private Committees, by which the interests of the petitioners might be prejudiced. If the complaint were that the private Committee had come to a wrong decision, not owing to an erroneous judgment, but by misconduct—for instance, by the exclusion of material evidence, and that by such exclusion of evidence they had come to a premature decision on the case—the decision of the House, in referring the petition to the Committee of Appeals, would then be, not on the merits of the question, but on the conduct of the private Committee. That he took to be the question before the House. The merits of the case were out of the question; and it was not intended, by the vote of the House, to decide upon those merits, except in so far as they were in-involved in the culpability of the Committee.
 The Speaker : The hon. member for Oldham was not a very old Member, and therefore not very conversant with the practice of that House. If the hon. Member who wished to address the House, did so with the intention of communicating to the House information derived from official documents which would controvert any previous statement made to the House, that hon. Gentleman had an undoubted right to make such a statement before the House could be called upon to decide the question before it.
 Sir Edward Codrington  would support the Motion for the rejection of the petition, conceiving the service to be rather injured than benefited by the conduct of the petitioners. Had there been twice the number of such officers in the list as the one now complained of, it would have been a great advantage to the country. He gave his testimony with great pleasure to the benefit the country had derived by the infraction of the Order in Council of 1806. He admired the address of the right hon. Baronet, and expressed his warm concurrence in that part of it which stated what was due to the son of such an officer as the late Sir Thomas Troubridge, feeling assured that if ever a reward was due to the posterity of any man, it was due to his. The present Sir Thomas Troubridge had been under his command, and he could say with great pleasure that in point of able and honourable conduct no man was his superior. But when the House considered who the persons were that endeavoured to throw dirt on the characters of these honourable Persons, it could come to but one conclusion. The gallant Admiral also defended the conduct of Captain Dacre and Sir James Yeo, and said, that even the Americans would do justice to the bravery of those officers. All officers were liable to accident, and to this the capture of Captain Dacre's vessel must be attributed. His mizen mast having been shot away, his ship was placed in such a position as to be exposed to the raking fire of the enemy, and this occasioned his defeat. The regulation was, no doubt, made to prevent early promotions, but periods had frequently occurred where there was a great dearth of officers, and then it was policy to break through them. He recollected an instance when the dearth of officers was so great that a purser had been called upon to keep watch, and was sent to cutout vessels. The country did not forget the services such men had rendered to them nor did they regret their promotion. He repeated the admiration he felt at the conduct of such officers as Sir Thomas Troubridge, and many others, who had been promoted over the heads of others. The service had no cause to regret the irregularity, nor could any officer feel the least jealousy on the subject when he contemplated the good that had resulted to his country from such a course. Under the regulations of the navy, no person could be a Lieutenant under the age of twenty, having first served six years as a Midshipman, which at sea was no trifling servitude;
 558
 Sir James Graham  was only desirous to make a statement of facts with which he had become acquainted in his official capacity, and he hoped before the House came to a decision he might be permitted to make them. The hon. member for Oldham had rested the charge of felony against the hon. Baronet (Sir Thomas Troubridge) upon the testimony of two individuals of the names of Captain Owen and Mr. Edwards. It was rather remarkable that he had information of a singular kind relating to the characters of each of those persons from the Admiralty, which he thought it his duty to state to the House. The first name amongst those who had signed the petition was that of Captain Owen; and in laying before the House a statement of that officer's conduct and professional life he begged the House to bear in mind that he drew all his facts from official documents, at the
 556
 Sir James Graham  said, he thought it was incumbent on him to state to the House, before it came to any decision on the subject, that he was in possession of certain facts, from an official source, which would entirely set aside the allegations of those who had signed the petition brought into the House by the hon. member for Oldham, upon the faith of whose assertions that hon Member had principally rested his case against the gallant accused.
 Sir James Graham  rose to address the House.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the hon. member for Oldham appeared to think that any petition which was respectfully worded ought to be laid on the Table of the House. He, however, contended, that although the language might be respectful to the House, an hon. Member should use his discretion in not giving his sanction to any unfounded charge against an individual, Here the hon. Member had come forward and made a charge, if not of felony, at least of fraud, against an hon. and gallant Officer, although he admitted that he knew nothing of the facts of the case. The hon. Member had asked what would become of the right of petition, if the present petition were rejected? The right of petition certainly had not been much interfered with this Session at least, for more petitions had been presented this Session than during any previous one. Nearly 10,000 had been presented, and as for their quality, at no former period had greater licence been allowed. The House had, however, exercised a sound discretion in deputing to a Committee the examination
 565
 Mr. W. Wynn  said, that the House was not now called upon to decide upon the merits of the proposed measure. The only question for the House to decide upon was, whether or not the Committee who had sat upon the Bill had done its duty. If there was any allegation that it had failed in that respect, or had refused to hear important evidence, there might be ground for appointing a Committee of Appeal but if the Committee had discharged its duty fairly and honestly (and he did not know of any allegation to the contrary), the House should be satisfied with its decision.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, a communication had been made upon the subject of this petition to the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), but he was sorry to say that anything respecting Ireland was treated in a disrespectful manner. As to the Repeal of the Union, the people looked to that only as a dernier resort; for thirty-three years they had looked in vain to England for an equality of rights and privileges, and they now sought the means of obtaining the management of their own affairs. There was an industrious circulation by the Press of this country of rumours injurious to the people of Ireland—there was in a base portion of the Press of England a mean trading principle adopted towards Ireland. Taunts were thrown out by some persons that those Members, favourable to the Repeal of the Union, dared not bring it forward; but he could tell those persons, and would tell his constituents, that it would be brought forward, and that, too, at as early a period as was possible. The advocates of the Repeal, only desired a fair, a calm, and dispassionate discussion; that they had a right to
 604
 Mr. Poulter  thought it was very unusual to move the second reading of the Bill, without entering into the details of it, and he wished to hear what the hon. and learned Member had to say in support of it.
 The Solicitor General  said, if it was the wish of the House that this Bill should advance a stage, he should offer no opposition at present to the second reading.
 Sir Robert Peel  objected to the Bill in principle; and, therefore, he should object to the advancement of the Bill a single step. He was against the House agreeing to the second reading of any measure which it was not prepared to carry to a conclusion.
 Mr. O'Connell  designated the present practice as altogether monstrous. It was productive in many instances of the most frightful injustice, he would say, in some cases to the extent of murder, particularly when conviction depended on circumstantial evidence. It was the grand object of an ingenious Counsel to predispose the Jury for a conviction, and thus circumstances immaterial in themselves appeared before them in fatal magnitude, and the counsel for the prisoner was prevented from giving those explanations which would have turned the circumstances very much in favour of, instead of being against the prisoner. He hoped the Bill would be allowed to pass a second reading, and then be referred to a Committee up-stairs, with a view of having some change effected in the present system during this Session.
 Mr. Shaw  stated, that he had the day before received a letter from a gentleman
 608
 Sir James Scarlett  would give no opinion then on the subject; but he could not help complaining that the practice had crept into the House of late of passing the most important questions without due discussion. Important measures were brought forward—they were read a first and a second time without discussion—the third reading was brought forward at two o'clock in the morning, and the Bills passed without discussion. They were then sent to the other House, without the public obtaining any information about them. He hoped that the present important alteration in the Criminal Law would not be made lightly, and that the proposed measure would not be added to the number of Bills that had already been passed without any debate having taken place upon them.
 Mr. Pryme  was opposed to the suggestion of moving for a Committee on the question. He had reasons for not attaching much importance to the Reports of Committees; and he considered the principles of the propsed Bill of such importance, that it ought to be openly discussed in that House
 The Solicitor General  said, that he had proposed that the subject, and not the Bill, should be referred to a Committee; and he still considered that the object of the hon. member for Liverpool would be better obtained by doing so than by then forcibly pressing it forward.
 Mr. Poulter  rose to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He had been very desirous of expressing his sentiments on the subject of this innovation upon the good old principles of our Criminal-law. He viewed the change proposed with great apprehension, because he thought it would prove, instead of an advantage, highly detrimental to persons arraigned for felony. The practice, as to evidence, would be materially altered in these cases. As the rule in this respect now stood, in all civil cases, the slightest proof very frequently decided the verdict. In cases of misdemeanour, a strong probability, accompanied by corroborative facts, would often suffice. And these were the only cases in which Counsel were allowed to address the Jury for the prisoner, with the exception of treason, in which the practice was, to allow two Counsel the privilege of addressing the Jury. This was, however, the exception to the general rule that Counsel were not allowed to address the Jury for persons arraigned of felony. It was, perhaps, unnecessary to observe, that the evidence of truth, rather
 610
 Mr. Ewart  proposed, as an amendment, and to meet the wishes of those who required time to consider the propriety of the change, that the Rill be read a second lime this day week.
 Mr. Lamb  had been officially drawn to the contemplation of the reasons for and against a change of this importance in our law. He would say from experience, that from day to day, he was the more convinced that justice was not always done in criminal cases. He had not anticipated any objection, he assured the House, to the Bill in this stage of it, or else he should have come down more prepared to enter into the examination of the arguments that might be advanced, for and against the change. He confessed, he was prepared to support the principle, that any person arraigned of felony, should be permitted equal advantages as to the assistance of Counsel as the prosecutor possessed at present. Unless that principle were recognised by our criminal enactments, he felt the law would be open to be impeached, and strict justice would not be done. If the question now were, whether they should postpone the second reading for a week, or till that day six months, be certainly should be for the shorter Period. He had not heard the debate, it was true, but he would say, that
 611
 Mr. Hill  heard with great pleasure the sentiments expressed by the last speaker. He could not agree with his hon. and learned' friend (Mr. Poulter), that the instances were few, in which the innocent were convicted. The subject demanded their immediate attention. Nothing could be a more imperative duty on that House, than to protect the innocent when arraigned of crime. In his own experience, he had known instances where the innocent had been convicted, sentenced, and, he regretted to say, executed.
 The Solicitor General  said, that when the subject was first brought before the House, he had not hesitated to confess, that his impression was, that the state of the law was far from satisfactory to the profession and to the public. It was not proper or just that the prosecutor's Counsel should be allowed to address the Jury, and the prisoner's Counsel's mouth should be closed. Still he felt, that the Bill of the hon. member for Liverpool, proposed that which was not practicable. If every prisoner tried at the Old Bailey, and at all the Sessions and Assizes throughout the kingdom, were to be supported on his trial by a speech from his Counsel, (and that was the object of the Bill,) he would say, it was impossible to accomplish the trial of prisoners within the times limited for holding them; and let it be observed, that as the Assizes came on between Hilary and Easter Terms, the difficulty would then be increased insuperably. He believed, that granting to Counsel a right to address the Jury, would not have the effect of shortening cross examination. In difficult cases, too, he had no doubt that recourse would be had by Counsel to long and declamatory speeches for prisoners. He had a great respect for the profession; he would stick by his order. Yet he would acknowledge, numbers were bent on seizing opportunities to distinguish themselves, and those thus presented, he suspected would not be lost—promoting so far, in his humble apprehension, a delay, and a perversion, in some cases, of justice. With this view of the merits of the hon. member's Bill, he should be disposed to oppose it; but he would have no such objection to a bill, which had for its object, the establishing a lair ad-
 612
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, they had witnessed rather an extraordinary mode of sticking by his order, in the case of the hon. the Solicitor-General, who had accused his brothers of the Bar, of unnecessarily procrastinating the administration of justice, for selfish purposes of aggrandisement. As to time, why try men at all, if they had not time to try them justly? Was the prosecutor to have all the advantages, and the prisoner to be debarred of equal rights with his accuser? Look at the absurdity of the distinction drawn between cases of felony and cases of treason. In the latter case, Counsel were allowed, where the greatest field was afforded for excitement and passion. But Jeremy Bentham had perhaps furnished the real reason why Counsel was not heard in such cases—namely, that the Judges did not like to wait for the truth, or to be detained to hear Counsel. As to the antiquity of the practice of the present system, let any Gentleman beware how he plumed himself upon supporting the ancient practice. Did he know that recently it was not the practice, and even lately it was vehemently questioned, whether a prisoner's Counsel had a right to examine witnesses in his defence on a charge of felony. The argument then was: "Do not, for humanity's sake, allow the defendant to call witnesses in his defence." The argument now was: "Do not, for humanity's sake allow the prisoner's Counsel the right to address the Jury." It was folly to say, that long speeches for prisoners would occasion their conviction. It was an evil, which, if it existed, would soon be its own remedy. Would prisoners continue to employ long twaddling speakers as their Counsel, whose endeavours only ensured their conviction? Were suitors in civil cases so blind to their own interests? Would the man accused of felony, not be as much alive to his interest, to the preservation of his property, liberty, or life, as the plaintiff in a civil action? He would say, he felt great satisfaction in the assurance just given by the hon. Secretary (Mr. Lamb), of his desire to improve the law in this respect. It displayed one
 613
 Mr. Godson  contended they were bound to afford to prisoners by law an equal privilege, as to assistance of Counsel, with the prosecution, and that, in addition to this, they were also bound to grant every prisoner a copy of the depositions on which he was arraigned, or else it amounted to a partial administration of justice in criminal matters.
 Mr. Lennard , on moving that the report on the Dwelling-House Robbery bill be received, said, that he should find it necessary to trespass for a few moments on the attention of the House, for the purpose of explaining again the object, which this measure had in view. Agreeably to the suggestion of his learned friend (the Solicitor General), he had limited the operation of this Bill, simply to the offence of breaking into dwelling-houses in the day-time, and stealing property therein—an offence, to which he conceived, that few persons would be now found to contend, that the penalty of death ought to be applied. He was certain, that the change which this Bill proposed to introduce, was one called for by the feelings of the people, and the spirit of the times. He had stated, on the occasion of the introduction of this measure, the effect which this extreme severity of the letter of the law, as contradistinguished from its spirit, had in disposing Juries to acquit prisoners, when charged with such crimes; and he had only to refer to the numerous petitions which had been presented, especially three years ago, to show the anxiety of the people for this proposed mitigation of our criminal code. Where so much of the execution of the law depended upon the people themselves, it was most necessary, that the feeling of the public should be consulted. Under these circumstances, therefore, and with the additional consideration, that, in the course of the last ten years, out of every nine persons convicted of these offences, not above one had been executed, he trusted that no serious opposition would be made
 614
 Mr. Strickland  observed, that from his experience as a Magistrate, he could state most certainly, that in the district with which he was connected, the number of prosecutions was much greater than had formerly been the case; but he denied that this tended in the least degree to prove there had been any increase in the number of offences, because since the passing of the statutes commonly called Mr. Peel's Acts, which gave the expenses of prosecutions in certain cases, it had become the interest of the legal practitioners in the country to institute prosecutions, and therefore those offences were now followed up which formerly had entirely escaped punishment. Allusion had been made to the increase of the crime of forgery since the abolition of the capital punishment for that offence, but unless it was shown that the crime had increased upon the number of charges of forgery formerly instituted, he (Mr. Strickland) could not give much credence to the statement which had been made. This, however, presented no reason why the experiment of this Bill should not be tried; and if for want of a good system of secondary punishments in this country, the amelioration in this case should prove insufficient to the public security, he for one should be most happy to retrace his steps, but at present he felt it his duty to support the Bill now before the House.
 Mr. Lloyd  concurred in the suggestion which had been thrown out by the hon. gentleman, the Under Secretary for the
 618 619
 Mr. Hill  concurred in the necessity of some general revision of the criminal law of this country. Too great severity created crime, instead of suppressing it. In former times the criminal law was as sanguinary in practice as it was now in the letter. In the reign of Henry 8th, historians stated, that no fewer than 70,000 persons were executed. This showed that the terror of the laws did not prevent the commission of capital offences. On the other hand, as the criminal law had been relaxed in severity, offences had diminished in number. Even so late as the end of last century it was dangerous to walk out into the streets of London after dark, so many desperadoes were abroad, who were seen even in broad daylight in the streets, but so well supported by their followers that the police dared not attack them. This was the statement made by Fielding, and confirmed by many contemporary authors. Now, how different was the state of crime? In the metropolis but little insecurity as to life was felt at any hour of the day or night, and the number of murders was very small compared with what it used to be. He knew many persons who never would prosecute for offences against property, where the punishment was death, not choosing to be instrumental to the loss of life in a fellow-creature. This feeling was spreading; and it would be found to be impossible unless they had Judges totally disconnected from the people, and actuated by different feelings and sympathies, to execute a state of law which was at variance with the opinions of the majority of the people. So long as the Jury system formed part of the judicial system, it would not be practicable to maintain a system of laws which was contrary in its spirit to the feelings of the people. The number of the prosecutions was not a just test of the increase of crime, as had already been observed by other Members. To argue that it was, was to argue like a Clerk of the Peace who judged solely by the increase of his own business that there must be a large increase of the offences for which his services were put in requisition. It was not a correct mode of ascertaining the point. The hon. Under Secretary had
 620
 Mr. Lennard  said, that this clause had been expunged. It merely remained on the printed Bill, because it had not been considered worth while to have a reprint of the Bill on account of so slight an erasure. With reference to objections which had been made against making these changes in detail, he would observe, that such had been the principle laid down as the best by one of the greatest law authorities known in this country. Sir S. Romilly, who, in bringing forward his law reforms, had invariably held, that graduated relaxation of the law would ensure the most effectual and beneficial results. With reference to the crimes of horse-stealing, sheep-stealing, and others, the capital punishment for which had been abolished, he denied that those offences had since increased. The hon. Member read some Returns to show that since the abolition of capital punishment, there had in Wales, in Berkshire, and several other counties, none of these crimes been committed. In Lincolnshire, which was a great place for sheep, there had been no sheep-stealing. With respect to forgery, it would be recollected that two specific cases of forgery were ex-
 622
 Mr. Lambert  rose to move an Amendment. He did not wish to embarrass the Government, or throw the least difficutly in its way; but he felt that he had no other course to adopt than to move an amendment to be Motion of the noble Lord. He had been prevented, last night, from making the Motion he intended to make, and from giving that explanation he
 623 The Times Mirror of Parliament 624 625 626 627 s d s d s d s d s s s d 628 629 l l per diem 630 l l l 631 632
 Lord Althorp  thought, as he had already stated, that it would have been more convenient if the hon. Gentleman had refrained from entering on this subject till after he had made his statement. The course, however, which the hon. Gentleman had pursued, rendered it necessary for him to state to the House such reasons as he hoped would induce them not to concur in the Amendment of the hon. Member. With respect to the statement which the hon. Gentleman had made, that the members of the Government had pledged themselves that the Coercive Bill should not be used for the purpose of collecting tithes, he did not in the least deny that such pledges were made, both by himself and the other members of his Majesty's Government. It had certainly been the intention and object of his Majesty's Government to act on this pledge. At the same time he begged the House to recollect, that he said, that the Coercive Bill would not prevent the law from taking its ordinary course, and that tithes would still be open to collection, although the Coercive Bill was not to be applied for that purpose in any way whatever. He did not hesitate to say distinctly to the hon. Gentleman, that if in any case whatever, that Bill had been applied to the collection of tithes, he admitted it was a breach of the pledge of his Majesty's Government, although, of course, he did not admit that such breach was intentional on their part. Certainly, such use of the Coercive Bill was in contradiction of the pledge which had been given. With respect to the case which the hon. Member had stated as occurring in the neighbourhood of New Ross, he admitted, that if any person, or any police
 633 634 635
 Mr. O'Ferrall  said, that the noble Lord's explanation was most unsatisfactory. The noble Lord admitted that his pledge had been violated, and though he believed the noble Lord to be perfectly innocent on that score, it was evident that some person must be guilty. If the noble Lord had stated that he would use his exertions to discover and bring to punishment the person who had caused the solemn pledge of the Government to be nullified, there would have been reason why the hon. Member should be perfectly satisfied. The people of Ireland would not be satisfied unless justice were done in this case. The hon. member for Wexford had omitted to mention many circumstances which would have strengthened the case which he had brought forward. Amongst other things he might have stated, that the first act of the Government after the passing of the Coercion Bill, was to cover the trees and the walls of the hon. Member's domain with tithe proclamations. That was the hon. Member's reward for the sacrifices which he had made in supporting the Coercion Bill. He could, by certain depositions which he held in his hand, show that the police and the military had actively assisted in the collection of tithes contrary to the pledge of Ministers. In one case a cabin was forcibly broken open, and the occupier arrested for a tithe debt of 18 s d
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  wished to know whether the complaint of the hon. Member was directed against the Tithe Commutation Act of last Session, or the existing Coercion-law? He understood the hon. Member to complain that the harsh cases he had just cited occurred under the colour of enforcing the Coercion Bill.
 Mr. O'Ferrall  had to complain that both acts—the Tithe Act and the Coercion—had been much abused in the collection of tithes, particularly the latter, which Ministers pledged themselves should not be applied in any way to enforcing the payment of tithes. It was undeniable
 636 l 637
 Sir Hussey Vivian  felt too deep an interest in the welfare of Ireland to give a silent vote on the present occasion. He had very recently stated, and he would then repeat, that he hoped to see the day when tithes should be extinguished altogether in Ireland—and he trusted that that day was much nearer than even he at first supposed; for till the tithe system was abolished, in name and fact, Ireland would be a stranger to peace and prosperity. Hon. Members who asserted, that if the outcry against tithes were acceded to, they should next be called upon to give up their rents, knew little of Ireland, and of the angry feelings with which tithes had been long regarded in that country. The anti-tithe resistance was not the growth of yesterday, and was based on far other principles and feelings than the refusal to pay a lawful debt. It had of late years, owing to a variety of causes, assumed so formidable and universal a shape, that it might now be considered a deep-rooted national feeling. The schedules laid on the Table of the number and character of tithe debts in Ireland during the two years preceding the Bill of last Session, exhibited this fact in a striking point of view. He had carefully examined these schedules, and he found that in fifty parishes there were not less than 19,000 tithe defaulters. Of these 19,000 defaulters, 1,000 only were for sums above 5 l l l l s s d d d 638 639 640 641
 Mr. Barron  was ready to assert, that from the councils of Lismore and Cashel down to the present time, tithes had ever been the source of discontent and disunion in Ireland. This he instanced by reference to the preamble of the Whiteboy Act, and to the Whiteboys, Rightboys, Peep-of-day-boys, and others, the germs of the present associations amongst the peasantry for the abolition of tithes. Thus, therefore, even in modern times, there was on their records proof of constant disorders for the last sixty years proceeding from this cause; and, no matter what tax was
 642
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped, that the open and candid statement of the noble Lord would be sufficient to induce the hon. member for Wexford to withdraw his Amendment. The noble Lord had admitted, that the proceedings had been improper, and that he could not give his sanction to them. He (Mr. Fergusson) had declared, when the Coercion Bill was brought forward, that if the military were to be employed in the collection of tithes, he would not vote for the Bill. He thought the Legislature had been abused upon this point. He now said, that more than a reprimand was required—that dis-
 643
 Mr. Henry Grattan  asked the noble Lord, whether the Government would dismiss the Attorney General, and the law officers who had given such an opinion? He asked the noble Lord, whether the law had not been violated? It was easy for him to say, that he knew nothing of it; it was his duty to know of it. What was the use of a Lord-lieutenant? Would Ministers enforce their orders, or would they suffer themselves to be mocked at? Their own officers in Ireland were deceiving or disobeying them.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that when, at the passing of the Bill, Members had spoken against vesting such power in the Irish government, it was asked, will you not trust the Lord Lieutenant? All the pledges given by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) on the passing of the Bill had been violated. As to the noble Lord saying, that the proceedings were not had with the sanction of the Government, at all events they were with the sanction of the servants of Government.
 Mr. Montague L. Chapman  said, that all he wished for was, that the Government should show their sincerity by exposing those who had disobeyed their orders. The Irish government had acted in the most strange and inconsistent manner. He knew one case in which a Magistrate wrote to the Irish government to know whether he would be justified in ordering out the police to enforce the service of processes for tithes due at May last. The answer of Sir William Gosset was, that the case was laid before the law officers of the Crown, but that his Excellency did not feel himself warranted in stating any opinion as to the legality or illegality of such an employment of the police force. Here then was the Irish government refusing to give any instructions to the Magistrates as to a point which created the greatest uneasiness and alarm in Ireland.
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  said, that he
 644
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that in common fairness his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, might have been permitted to bring forward his plan for the settlement of all the difficulties arising out of the present system of collecting tithes before this attack was made upon the conduct and character of the Administration. He thought that the hon. member for Wexford had displayed considerable ingenuity in the mode in which he had framed his Amendment. That Amendment contained two questions perfectly distinct from each other: the first was, that "it was the opinion of this House that the Coercion Bill should not have been applied to assist the collection of tithes, and that the pledge given by the Administration that the arrears of tithes should be got rid of had not been fulfilled;" and then came the other, "that the employment of the military and police force in the serving of civil process, and in the levying of tithes, was highly unconstitutional, and ought to be discontinued." Now, the hon. member for Kildare had brought forward a number of cases, in which the military and police force had been attending for the protection of those persons who served civil process; and from his speech it would appear that, for their assistance in the collection of tithes, the powers of the Coercion Bill had been called into employment. Now, before the House came to that conclusion, it ought to separate the two questions which had been thus ingeniously connected together; and, in order to effect that separation, he would just inform hon. Members that, in the county of Kildare, the Coercion Bill had never yet been put in operation at all. There could, therefore, be no ground for the allegation which the hon. Member had so needlessly made, that, in the county of Kildare, the Coercion Bill had been used for the collection of tithes. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the Coercion Bill was under discussion, it had been said by himself and others, that the tendency of that Bill would be to make the law gene-
 645 Lambert 646 Hon. Member l l 647 Several Members 648 O'Connell 649
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor : I never said any such thing. I merely quoted that as an opinion stated by the right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth.
 Mr. Stanley  understood the hon. and learned member for Cork, to represent the right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth as averse to any plan of commuting tithes, because it might be abused by the landlords so as to compel their tenants to pay them 1 s d s O'Ferrall
 Mr. O'Ferrall  wished to say, whatever
 650
 Sir Robert Peel , in allusion to what had fallen from the hon. member for Cork, (Mr. F. O'Connor) during his absence from the House, said, that he had never, to the best of his recollection and belief, expressed himself adverse to any reasonable plan of tithe commutation. He might have said, that the absolute extinction of tithes would not be of great benefit to the Irish tenant; for as the Irish clergymen, generally speaking, made a large reduction in the value of the tithes which they had a right to claim from the farmers, and as the Irish landlords would, if tithes were abolished, have a right to demand from the farmer an equivalent for the tithes which they formerly paid to the clergymen, it might turn out, that the landlords would demand more from them than they had hitherto been accustomed to pay to the clergy. More than that he did not believe that he had ever said—and certainly he had never expressed himself hostile to any well-arranged plan for the commutation of tithes.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the right, hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) had asked him what he meant by the extinction of tithes, consistently with a payment out of land. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman what he did not mean by the extinction of tithes. [ Cries of "oh, oh!" and laughter Cries of "oh, oh!" and "Order, order
 Mr. Stanley  rose to order, amidst loud cheers. He apprehended that no hon. Member was justified in using the word "dare" as applying to the course which any other hon. Member might choose to pursue.
 Mr. O'Connell  would ask how any Members could presume to raise such ruffianly shouts as had been raised against him on that occasion.— Loud shouts of "Oh, oh!" and "Order, order
 Lord Sandon  rose to order. He hoped that if the House wished to preserve the character of an assembly of gentlemen, they would not allow such language to be used in that House, whatever might be its cause. He would not justify the in-
 651
 The Speaker  said, that the call made upon him by the noble Lord was such as he could not but answer. The language of the hon. member for Dublin was undoubtedly disorderly, and the provocation which he received was equally disorderly. He was sure, that the House would feel indebted to the noble Lord for calling its attention to the subject, and that it would give its censure equally to both sides; and he hoped that what had been said by the noble Lord would bring back the attention of the House to what was before them, and be a proper guide to them as to the course they ought to pursue.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished he knew how adequately to receive what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, and adequately to express his apology for anything he might have said. He would wish to express himself in terms as happy as those in which that reproof had been conveyed; but finding it impossible to do so he implored the right hon. Gentleman (the Speaker) to consider of a suitable apology for him—to consider what he ought to say, and to believe it to be said. He was saying, when he was interrupted, that he would tell what he did not mean by an extinction of tithes—he did not mean that there should be regiments of horse, foot, and artillery to collect them—that there should be military and police employed in their collection—and, least of all, he never meant that there should be breaking into houses with respect to them. He did not mean that such scenes should take, as had taken place in the county of Kildare—that the daughter of Mr. O'Donnell should be dragged from her residence, and not allowed time to dress herself before she was hurried off to Clonmel gaol with her father; or that Mr. O'Regan should have been used as he had been. He meant something very different by the extinction of tithes. He meant something very different from what had been
 652 l l s l s d 653 654 655 l l
 Mr. Shaw  could not help agreeing with the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell), that the gallant General's speech was well calculated to give offence to every class of persons in Ireland; and he must add, that he never heard a speech less likely to produce submission to the laws, or that could be more easily turned into a justification for the resistance to all constituted authority. He (Mr. Shaw) bad merely risen in consequence of the attacks which had been made on individuals belonging to the Irish clergy. It was impossible to be prepared by anticipation with facts to meet the various charges brought, with out any previous notice against the clergy; but in the case of Archdeacon Trench, to whom allusion had been made, it did so happen, that although it had been stated that night that he had never been seen in his parish, he (Mr. Shaw) had received within the last few weeks a letter from him, dated from that very parish; and he had known of his having been frequently there. Archdeacon Trench had been charged with oppression, for having put the collection of his tithes into the hands of a professional person; and the very letter to which he (Mr. Shaw) had alluded was to inquire from him if the Government had any plan to propose of giving pecuniary assistance to those of the clergy who had been deprived of their incomes, as he (Archdeacon Trench) was unwilling to resort to legal proceedings while any other expedient remained to him. Now, this instance, where his (Mr. Shaw's) having the means of explanation was merely accidental, might serve as a specimen of the unjust accusations habitually brought against the Irish clergy, whose extreme moderation and forbearance, take them as
 656
 Lord Duncannon , in the absence of the Secretary for Ireland, offered an explanation relative to the severity exercised in the county of Tipperary in the collection of tithes. Mr. Gunn applied, not to the regular law advisers of the Crown, but to the Crown solicitor, to ascertain whether he was at liberty to break open doors in serving Crown processes. Mr. Gunn, acting under a misapprehension, did resort to this mode of proceeding, and, as had been stated by the hon. member for Clonmel, great severity was exercised in the district in question, which, however was the only part of Munster where such cases had occurred. As soon as the proceedings became known to the Irish government, an order was sent down to put a stop to it, and there was no repetition of the severity. The same sort of misapprehension having occurred in parts of the county of Kilkenny, he did not say that some cases of a like nature might not have happened there, but means had been taken to prevent their recurrence.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  stated, that Archdeacon Trench held the living adjoining to the parish in which he (Mr. Fitzgerald) lived, and that the reverend Gentleman had not resided there since he got the incumbency. The name of the parish was Dunleer; and he held in his hand a letter, which showed that the daily occupation of the police was serving  latitats
 Mr. Ronayne  said, that Gunn was not the only person who had been guilty of undue severity. If the House wanted to know who was Gunn's evil genius or adviser in this matter, he (Mr. Ronayne) could tell them, for he could produce the written opinion of one Green, the Attorney General's (Ireland) deputy, authorising Gunn to take the course he had taken.
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  read a letter from the Chief of Police of Roscommon, detailing the circumstances attending the serving of tithe processes by him there. By that it appeared that the police were authorized to go out, not merely as protectors to tithe-collectors, but as tithe-collectors themselves. There had been a violation
 658
 Lord Althorp  observed, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member who spoke last, that he entirely concurred in the statement made by his right hon. friend, that undoubtedly the Government would punish those who might have misapplied the Coercive Bill to enforce the collection of tithes. He thought if it were proved that parties had used the Bill for the purpose of collecting tithes, an inquiry should be instituted, and it would become the duty of Government to punish the offending parties by dismissal or otherwise.
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, he did not rise at so late an hour to take part in the discussion which had so long engaged the House, more particularly as it appeared to be confined to the party of the member for Dublin and his Majesty's Ministers. He had long foreseen the flame which the promises given by the late right hon. Secretary would be calculated to excite in Ireland; and though he sincerely regretted it, he was not the less sure that it would extend till it would endanger all property. He wished, in consequence of what had fallen from the member for Westmeath, as a charge against his noble friend, the Marquess of Westmeath, to state, that when the hon. Member complained that the noble Marquess had taken legal proceedings to enforce the payment of tithe due to him to the 1st of last May, he should have informed the House that that noble Lord had done so in consequence of his having received no tithes for the last three years. This he believed had been the case in those instances where the clergy had been compelled to take a similar course for the recovery of their just rights, though, even in such cases, he would not allow it to be stated in the House without contradiction, that the ex-
 659
 Lord Althorp  said, that according to promise, he would now proceed shortly to state the objects he proposed to effect. By the Act of Parliament passed in the last Session for the composition of tithes in Ireland, from and after the month of November, 1833, tenants of land were not to be liable to the payment of tithes. The effect of this measure would be, that after the tithes of this year had been paid the occupying tenants would be no longer called on to pay tithes. He thought if would be admitted to be most desirable that Parliament should take measures to relieve occupiers of land in Ireland from the payment of tithes from the present time. It was not in his power to state accurately at the present moment the amount of money which it would be necessary to advance to the clergy of the Established Church in order to effect that purpose; but he thought it would be admitted that' the House ought to pledge itself generally that a sum of money should be advanced with a view to afford this relief, and that Government should be empowered to abandon (as it had the power to suspend) all process under the existing law. He trusted, when this pro-
 660
 Colonel Perceval  wished to know whether this was to extend to lay impropriators?
 Lord Althorp  said, that the clergy were the only persons contemplated in the advance.
 Sir Robert Peel  asked, whether all anterior demands on the part of the clergy for arrears of tithes would be extinguished by the Resolution? It was possible that there might be arrears of an older date than 1831. He thought it desirable that the Resolution, if agreed to, should be carried at as early a period as possible, and that it was of the utmost importance to have the true intent and meaning of the measure clearly and distinctly understood in Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  said, that considering the situation in which the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland were placed, it was proposed by the Resolution, that an advance should be made to them by
 661
 Mr. Shaw  begged to remind the noble Lord, that it was ill the year 1830, that the systematic opposition to tithe commenced in Ireland; and he believed, that in a majority of cases, the tithe of that year was now due. He was however persuaded, that the proposition of the noble Lord would be received by the Irish clergy in a spirit of the utmost fairness and liberality—with a desire on their parts, to make no captious objections, but as fur as possible, to facilitate any arrangement for promoting peace and good-will amongst all parties concerned in the adjustment of their claims.
 Mr. Lamb  could assure the House, that it was with great regret that he felt it his imperative duty to oppose this Motion. The House would give him credit when he stated, that it was with extreme reluctance he deemed it necessary to throw any impediment in the way of what might be represented as an improvement in our criminal code. He had stated, when his hon. friend introduced this Bill that it was not a measure which Government would then oppose, and it was entitled to a calm and deliberate consideration, but he would now entreat the House to pause before it adopted such a measure. He was fully impressed with the conviction that the course of legislation which they were now pursuing on this subject tended much to the increase of that evil under which they laboured so extremely at present—namely, the multiplication of crime. There was no denying the fact that there had been latterly a great increase of crime. Let the House just look at the effect of the course which it had adopted last year in taking away the capital punishment from the crime of forgery. He (Mr. Lamb) had voted for that measure, and he had done so with the most perfect security that it would not have been attended by an increase of crime. Unluckily, however, he
 615 l 616
 Colonel Butler : I informed the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer that I should present it to-day.
 Colonel Butler  said, he had to
 600 s 601
 Mr. Rotch  considered that the best mode of preventing crime was by making the laws for its punishment certain in their nature and sure in their execution. They
 621
 Mr. Ronayne  deprecated all attacks on individuals, and hoped that hon. Members would direct all their efforts against the
 607
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  regretted very much, that the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and other members of the Ministry, were not present, as well as the learned member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), upon such an occasion, for it would have given them those proofs of which they said the other night he stood in need. Were the people of England aware, that for the purpose of upholding what was called "the word of the Lord," Government kept up in Ireland a force of 23,700 soldiers and 10,000 police marauders to scour the country? This was not a single instance; he himself had seen eight different divisions breaking into houses for tithes where not a penny was due. The fact was, these proceedings were adopted for the purpose of forcing the people to enter into an arrangement with the tithe proctor, that he might exact the payment of tithes which were not due. If the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been present, he would have told him, that his Government was one of the most imbecile, truckling, and inconsistent that ever sat on those benches. With regard to the last part of the petition he would ask would the people get no redress if such proceedings as these were laid before a domestic legislature, when the wrongs were fresh in the memories of the whole population? He would tell the Government, that they were taking the same steps to prevent the repeal of the Union, as a celebrated individual did to obtain that measure. Then there was that House passing their votes of confidence, only because they had not
 602
 Mr. Shaw  thought, it would be impossible so to amend the criminal law as altogether to supersede the necessity of discretion in the Judge. It was impossible to draw the exact line where legislation should end and discretion begin. There were, no doubt, anomalies and apparent contradictions in the system as it was written; but these disappeared when the actual practice of the law was looked into. At this time of the year the capital punishment was to be taken away, although a gang of robbers should break into a house while the inmates were at rest at three o'clock in the morning; and on the other hand in the case which had been put of a girl breaking a window and stealing a bun at seven o'clock of a winter's morning, she would still be guilty of a capital offence; this showed how essential it was, that the Judge should have a discretionary power for the purpose of adjusting the balance in all such cases. With respect to the particular offence described in this Bill, the practice now was, to leave the words "break and enter" out of the indictment, unless in cases marked by features of great atrocity. Whatever advantage might be gained by a general and well-considered alteration of the law as regarded capital punishments, he thought great evil was endangered by these attempts to amend it by separate and disconnected efforts.
 Mr. Shaw  had entertained no intention whatever to take the slightest part in the discussion upon the petition before the House, for he had not had any idea that upon such a petition a discussion could arise
 605 l Hear 606
 Mr. Shaw  wished to ask whether the last clause had been expunged, as other wise the jurisdiction of the Old Bailey for the trial of these offences would be entirely shut out. At any rate, he was certain that such would be the case in Ireland in the Court over which he presided.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that a general amendment of the criminal law would be preferable to the present mode of amending it by separate Bills, but he preferred to have it amended piecemeal rather than not have it done at all. He should give his support to the Bill of the hon. member for Maldon.
 Mr. Barron  protested against the tone adopted by the hon. member for the University of Dublin, which was such as to lead to the supposition that other members for Ireland did not come into that House possessed of as much ability and information as that hon. Member. He treated such dictatorial manners with a great deal of contempt.
 Mr. Barron  disclaimed any intention of giving personal offence to the hon. Member; and contended, that if the Irish Members had had their wishes conceded on the Resolution that was proposed for the purpose of preventing the application of the Coercion Bill to the collection of tithes, there would not have been such a petition before the House. He hoped to God, as an honest man, that the people of Ireland would always retain their hatred of tithes. They were subjected to all sorts of persecution—persecution on the score of religious opinion—persecution in education—and persecution in the collection of the most odious of imposts. The hon. member for the University said, that the clergy never transgressed the law; but then they sheltered themselves behind the injustice of the law. In his country, a wretch of an attorney was employed by the clergy to collect the tithes; and instead of enforcing payment by a process at the Quarter Sessions, which would cost seven or eight shillings, he employed a process by which the poor people, who were living on one or two acres of land, in a miserable Irish hovel, were charged three or four pounds. And in Ardmore, in the county of Waterford, a bill had been tiled against the poor tithe-payers, in the Court of exchequer, by which the costs which might have been restricted to 30 l l
 Mr. Henry Grattan  maintained that the law had been violated in Ireland by breaking open houses and by other acts of outrage since the Coercive Act had been passed. He believed that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was most honestly ignorant of all that related to that country. Nothing as yet had been done for Ireland in the present Session. The House had become a Government House, and Members were obliged to give up their Motions to the Ministers. He had never seen such conduct since 1806 as had been shown in the present Session. The right hon. Secretary had partly founded his Bill on the case of the reverend Mr. Butler, whom he represented as a starving exile, and yet at that time the reverend Gentleman had sworn that he was a 50 l
 Mr. Lambert  thought that the course that had been adopted in Ireland in the collection of tithes, was a most gross violation of good faith on the part of his Majesty's Government. An assurance had been given by the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests, and the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer, during the debate on the Irish Disturbances' Bill, that tithes were not the description of property sought or intended to be protected by the provisions of that Bill.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that no one doubted the sincerity of the motives of his hon. friend in opposing this Bill. He concurred in one part of what had fallen from his hon. friend, namely, that it would be well if Government could find itself at liberty, and had time, to take the whole consideration of the revision of our criminal code into its hands, instead of leaving it to be effected through the means of bills brought forward by individual Members, at vast trouble to themselves, and with the reward of but little gratitude for their laudable endeavours. He was sorry that he altogether dissented from the remainder of his hon. friend's observations. When his hon. friend stated the result of the alteration of the law with regard to the punishment for forgery, he would beg to ask his hon. friend whether, with his knowledge and experience on the subject, he was prepared to retrace the steps they had taken in that instance—whether, in fine, with the temper of the British nation in 1833, any Government or any gentleman would be bold enough to come down to that House and recommend to them that they should come back to the old code with regard to forgery. If they had to complain of the increase of crime, the fault lay with themselves; they did not adopt the proper preventives to check the increase of crime. Let them but advert to the beneficial effects which had been experienced from the system of solitary confinement in the United States, and they would see what good might be expected from the adoption of a proper system of preventives. The report as to the effects of solitary imprisonment in the great gaol of Auburn was most favourable
 617
 Mr. Macleod  begged the hon. and gallant Member's pardon. He, however, regretted, that from the unexpected occurrence of the delay in returning the writ, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland (Mr. Littleton) had not yet taken his seat, because it was important that he should have been present.
 Mr. Macleod  intreated the House to suspend its judgment until some Member of the Government was present, who could either contradict the statements in the petition on official information, or would consent to make inquiry into them. He had invariably supported the Ministers, in passing what was called the Coercive Bill, believing that it would restore tranquillity to the country; and although its powers might have been, in a few instances, abused, he believed that it had done considerable good. He thought it would have been but fair to have presented the petition when some Member of the Government was present and had a knowledge of its contents.
 Mr. Ewart  would support the Bill, but he thought it would be improved if the hours within which the offence became changed in its character should be distinctly defined. He thought the hours should be named in the Bill, and be from ten o'clock at night to five in the morning throughout the year. Parliament having modified the law as to the higher class of delinquents, were bound to do it as to the lower order. He hoped to see the Criminal Laws of this country more consonant with the feelings and opinions of a civilized people than they were at present.
 Mr. Finn  said, as the petition came from his part of the country, he must be allowed to say a few words upon it. All agreed, even in Court, that Serjeant Shaw had acted very imprudently—that was the word—he was disposed to use a much harder term. There was one part of the petition which almost incited him to laughter; the simple petitioner said that the Coercive Bill would never have passed through that House, had it not been assured that it would not be used for the purpose of enforcing tithes. Poor simple man—he did not know that House. He had never seen or heard of such a House of Commons—any measure, whatever might be its nature, would receive their support, if it was only asked by Ministers. It was the most truckling House that had ever sat within those walls. It was said, that the people had no confidence in the House of Lords, but the people were more widely separated from the House of Commons than from the House of Lords, and in the event of adissolution, three-fourths of the Members would never appear there again. And yet that noble phalanx who strenuously opposed that infamous Bill, and foretold its consequences, were reviled, insulted, and called assassins, and the enemies of their country. That was a Reformed Parliament, whose first act was the passing of such an infamous and bloody Bill as that now complained of. It was said that Ireland would want no Repeal of the Union, when all the beneficial measures which Ministers intended to propose were brought forward. But he could tell them, that the desire for the Repeal of the Union was more rife than ever it was; they had already put down the right of petitioning, and had "suspended" the  Habeas Corpus 603
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member was without question out of order, if he meant to apply his observations personally to the hon. Member who preceded him.
 Mr. Ruthven  suggested, that it should be extended to Ireland.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he had to present a petition to the House of much public importance. It was from the Jurors who sat on the Coroner's Inquest on the body of Robert Culley, the policeman, who was killed in Calthorpe-street. He said, the object of the observations he had to make, was directly to charge his Majesty's Government with a dereliction of duty. This he should do by first, charging them with having created a riot, instead of preventing one; secondly,
 680 681 682 To the hon. the House of Commons in Parliament assembled; the Petition of the undersigned Jurymen upon the Inquest held on the body of Robert Culley, Showeth,—That your petitioners, the undersigned, were summoned to serve and did serve as Jurymen on a Coroner's Inquest upon the body of Robert Culley, a policeman, slain in an affray that took place on the 13th of May, at Coldbath-fields. That your petitioners did then, acting in discharge of their duty, under the solemn obligation of an oath, return a verdict of Justifiable Homicide on the part of some person unknown. That to return some verdict was the solemn duty which the wisdom of the law had imposed on your petitioners. That your petitioners paid all due attention to the evidence adduced, and upon the evidence they felt themselves bound, as honest and conscientious men, to return the verdict above-mentioned; they exercised a privilege given by the law in the only way their consciences permitted. That your petitioners have heard with great pain and alarm that this, their conscientious verdict, has upon an  ex-parte That your petitioners also fear, that this proceeding may have a tendency to bring into discredit the Trial by Jury, and to make men believe that a trial by the country is a mere idle form, handed down to us by an ignorant ancestry, and retained only from a foolish adherence to old prejudices. Your petitioners, therefore, pray your hon. House to take these matters into consideration, and to pursue such measures as in your wisdom may seem requisite, to free your petitioners from blame, and to secure to future jurymen the privileges conferred on them by law. And your petitioners will, as in duty bound, ever pray, &c.
 Mr. Lamb  rose, but before he had addressed the House,
 Mr. Roebuck  entreated the hon. Member not to persevere in his Motion. If he had contemplated such a proceeding, he most certainly would not have made such a charge at so great a length. An opportunity for the right hon. Gentleman to explain, ought to be immediately afforded.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. member for Oldham ought to have moved, that the House be counted while the hon. member for Bath was addressing the House, as it was in consequence of the importance of the subject that he wished it to be brought before a fuller House. As the benches were in the same state now, that they were in when the hon. member for Bath addressed the House, an opportunity should in fairness be given for the Government to explain.
 Mr. Cobbett  did not know, that it was allowable to move the counting of the House while an hon. Member was addressing it.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member was quite unacquainted with the forms of the House; it not only was quite allowable, but was frequently done.
 Mr. Cobbett  begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Lamb  proceeded. The hon. member for Bath had so guarded himself against any unfair and unnecessary imputation upon the police force, that he (Mr. Lamb) should not think it necessary to detain the House with any lengthened vindication of that useful and effective body. He would shortly refer to the facts of the case; there was, however, so much of law mixed up with it, that in some points he must leave it to his learned friend the Solicitor General. The charge against the Government was certainly not a light one—it was twofold, and involved first, a dereliction of duty, the allegations in support of that being, that they had decidedly created a riot. It was very easy to charge Government with a dereliction of duty, in the means they had used to prevent or quell tumultuary meetings, which were, unfortunately, thought too strong or too weak for the occasion; but it was not so easy, in anticipation of such assemblies, to adopt measures which might not be liable, in some quarters, to such a
 684 The Republican 685 686 Roebuck Roebuck 687 688
 The Solicitor General  said, as he had been attacked for the share he had taken in this subject, and for having improperly discharged the duties of his office, he was anxious to vindicate himself. The petition of the Jurymen was entitled to the greatest respect, but he regretted, that such a discussion should be brought on so very inopportunely. There were various trials to take place arising out of this transaction; in the course of a fortnight one man was to be tried for his life on a bill of indictment which had been found by the Middlesex Grand Jury, and there were other trials for misdemeanors, in which both the law and the facts must be investigated. He had a very high estimation of the superintending power of that House where there was a failure of justice—when Judges misconducted themselves, or where Government had been guilty of any misconduct, and then let Government be impeached before the House; but it was inexpedient to appeal to that House on facts which ought to be tried by the ordinary Courts. The petitioners complained on two grounds—first that a slur had been cast upon them; and secondly, that the Trial by Jury had been brought into discredit by the inquisition being quashed. Now, in fact, no slur whatever was cast upon the Jury. When he applied to the Court of King's Bench to quash the inquisition, he distinctly expressed his sincere respect for the Jury, and for the intentions by which they had
 689 690 691 692
 Mr. O'Connell  considered it impossible to exaggerate the effect which ought to be given to the verdict of an honest Jury. It was the Englishman's only protection. It was impossible at the same time to exaggerate the evils which would arise from the impunity of the police force, when it was found that their conduct had been unconstitutional and ferocious. The police in Ireland were armed with deadly weapons, and the cases in which they inflicted murder were monstrous and of continual recurrence. Yet, notwithstanding this, on every occasion they had the usual official eulogium passed on their conduct by those connected with the
 693 certiorari
 The Solicitor General  said, that the inquisition containing the clause referred to had been signed by all the Jury; and it was therefore to be taken for granted that they were acquainted with its contents.
 Mr. O'Connell  continued: It was impossible that their attention could have been called to such a clause. They must indeed have been insane if they could have found that the man was, in the peace of God and of our Lord the King, in the exercise of his duty, and was slain justifiably; but it was the duty of the Coroner to have apprized them of it, and
 694 695
 Sir George Grey  said, the learned Solicitor General had assumed all these facts in his application to set aside the verdict.
 Mr. O'Connell : He could not have done so; he was too good a lawyer to have done so. Then, take it the other way; a policeman acted, not in the peace of our Lord the King, in the way described in the verdict, against the people. Putting all the facts together, would any one tell him—would any lawyer say—that a man hard pressed in the way he had described, would not be justified in saving his own life, even at the expense of that of his antagonists? Good God! was a policeman to have a privilege to kill when and where he thought proper? Such a thing might be said in that House, but no man would dare to broach such a doctrine in a Court of Law, for there he would be instantly set down, and his bold assertion at once meet with a flat contradiction. The police were now become soldiers in a different dress, but were not so well conducted as soldiers, at least in his country. He believed that here the police had in general been well-governed and conducted, but here was the first case where they were convicted by a Jury of brutality and ferocity; therefore he was the more anxious to take advantage of it, in order that it might be a lesson to them, before they got so low in the scale of brutality as their fellows were in Ireland, for then there would be no hope of them. Had the Coroner done his duty, and drawn up such an inquisition for the Jury as it was his duty to have done, then no criticism could possibly have set aside that noble verdict, but it would have been as firmly settled in the records of the country as it was in the hearts of the people.
 Sir George Grey  said, that it was incumbent upon him to refute the assumptions of the hon. and learned Member, for if they were to go forth with the weight which his talents commanded, they were calculated to do much harm. He had perverted the case, not intentionally, but he had assumed and stated as facts things which had no foundation. No man, whether lawyer or not, could doubt but
 696
 Mr. Godson  regretted that his Majesty's Government, through their law officers, had thought it necessary to quash the inquisition; it would have been much wiser if the verdict had been permitted to remain attached to it, because it was the inquisition only which had been attacked, and not the verdict; the latter was the act of the Coroner alone. The Jury had found the verdict of "Justifiable Homicide;" that the police, of which Robert Culley was one, had made an unprovoked attack—he would not use the other words of the verdict, because he wished to discuss the subject calmly, temperately, and dispassionately—that the police had made an unprovoked attack on the multitude, and that one of that multitude had caused, in a justifiable manner, his death. Who was there in England would say, that seventeen men on their oaths had found a verdict which was contrary to the fact, and that they had thereby violated their oaths? [Sir  G. Grey 697
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the Solicitor General was not in the House to hear the convincing arguments which had been adduced by the learned Gentleman who had last spoken; and deprecated the idea of the Solicitor General producing the bill calling the meeting together, as evidence against the parties who were assembled without any proof to show from whence it came, and by whom it was issued. He regretted the obloquy which had been thrown upon the police by these transactions, while the idea of any importance being attached to the meeting, and the attempt to magnify the proceedings into treason were completely ridiculous. The learned Solicitor General had been left without a leg to stand on; that hon. and learned Gentleman had unfairly alluded to the opinions which hon. Members expressed whilst the inquest was holding, forgetting the proclamation which had been issued by the Government offering a reward of 200 l 698
 Sir George Staunton  got up to move as an Amendment to that, certain Resolutions relative to India, which he had brought forward on last Tuesday se'nnight, but which he had not then an opportunity of having read to the House. He was anxious that those Resolutions should be entered upon the Journals; but considering the anxiety which the House must feel to hear the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, he would not detain them by entering then upon any discussion of the affairs of India, but simply content himself with moving the following Resolutions:—
 1. That British intercourse with China is the source whence this country is exclusively supplied with tea—an article in such universal use as to be nearly equivalent to a necessary of life, and through the consumption of which a revenue of between three and four millions sterling is annually raised with greater facility and certainty, and with less pressure on the people, than in the case of any other tax of equal amount; and that this trade moreover employs a very considerable extent of British shipping, is the medium of the export of the manufactures and productions of Great Britain and the British possessions in India, to the amount in annual value of some millions sterling, besides affording a certain and convenient channel for the remittance to Europe of that portion of the Indian revenues required to meet the home charges in this country. 2. That this branch of British commerce being of such great importance to the interests of this country, even while it continues, as at present, confined to a single port, and that port one of the least advantageous in the Chinese dominions, either for the export of the staple commodities of China, or the dispersion among the Chinese population of the chief manufactures and productions of Europe, it is not easy to estimate the vast field which would be opened to the enterprise and the industry of the manufacturing and producing classes in this country, if such an improved understanding could be effected between the Governments of Great Britain and China as might lead to a free and unrestricted intercourse of British subjects with the ingenious and industrious
 699 3. That the peculiar jealousy of foreign intercourse which distinguishes the governments of all the nations beyond the Ganges having been fully exemplified by the exclusion of all foreigners, the Dutch only excepted, from the ports of Japan, and, without any exception, from several of the ports of China, to which formerly they were freely admitted, and by the obstructions which have been found insurmountable to any extensive beneficial intercourse with Cochin China, and the other minor states, and being partially mitigated in the single instance only of the port of Canton, it is of the utmost importance that all legislative measures, in any manner affecting a branch of British commerce at once so valuable and so capable of improvement, and yet so precarious, should be founded on the fullest and most impartial consideration of all the circumstances which have contributed to place it in its present position. 4. That, in the first place, instead of being regulated by international treaties, and placed under the recognized protection of a public Minister at the capital, and an acknowledged consul at the port of trade, as is customary in other civilised states, it is wholly abandoned to the arbitrary control of the Chinese local authorities, and is by those authorities subjected to many very severe and vexatious burthens, and to various personal restrictions and privations of the most galling and oppressive nature. 5. That these evils, in the second place, are wholly attributable to the nature and character of the Chinese government, and not to any want of proper spirit and firmness in the agents of the East-India government, who have, upon various occasions, opposed the arbitrary and oppressive Acts of the Local Government with considerable success, and in a manner which individuals, pursuing their separate interests, and unconnected by any bond of union, never could have attempted; and have thus repeatedly secured, for the general interests of the foreign trade, privileges of the most essential importance, and averted from it evils of the most serious description, solely through the influence derived from the magnitude of their commercial dealings. 6. That this influence, being the sole existing check now in operation for the control and counteraction of the corrupt local administrators of the peculiarly arbitrary and despotic government of China, it is indispensably necessary to the security of our valuable commerce with that country, that whenever any change shall be made in the British commercial system, having the effect of putting an end to this influence, an equal or greater instrument of protection be at the same time created and substituted for it, under the sanction of a national treaty between the two countries,
 700 7. That notwithstanding the failure, in this respect, of all complimentary embassies to the Court of Pekin, however otherwise beneficial they may have been in raising and producing the due recognition of the national character, the evidence of the treaties which have been repeatedly negociated by the Chinese government with that of Russia, through the medium of the Commissioners duly appointed on both sides, not only for the adjustment of boundaries, but for the regulation of trade, prove that there is no insurmountable obstacle to such an arrangement. 8. That in the event of these expectations not being realised, and it proving impracticable to replace the influence of the East-India Company's authorities by any system of national protection directly emanating from the Crown, it will then be expedient (though only in the last resort) to withdraw the British commerce altogether from the control of the Chinese authorities, and to establish it in some insular position on the Chinese coast where it may be satisfactorily carried on, beyond the reach of acts of oppression and molestation, to which an unresisting submission would be equally prejudicial to the national honour and the national interests of this country. 9. That, lastly, the state of the trade under the operation of the Chinese laws in respect to homicides committed by foreigners in that country, calls for the early interposition of the Legislature, those laws being practically so unjust and intolerable that they have in no instance for the last forty-nine years been submitted to by British subjects; great loss and injury to their commercial interests accruing from the suspension of the trade in consequence of such resistance, and the guilty as well as the innocent escape with impunity: and that it is, therefore, expedient to put an end to this anomalous state of the law, by the creation of a British naval tribunal upon the spot, with competent authority for the trial and punishment of such offences.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that he rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given a few days ago of his intention to bring before the House on that night certain Resolutions respecting the East-India Company's charter. He felt persuaded that the House would agree with him in thinking
 701 702 703 704 705 706 707 l l l 708 709 710 l l l l 711 712 713 714 715 716 717 718 719 ad valorem ad valorem 720 721 722 l l l s l l l s Robert Peel l 723 724 l l 725 l l l l l l 726 l 727 728 729 droit public 730 731 732 733 734 735 736 737 738 739 740 
 1. "That it is expedient that all his Majesty's subjects shall be at liberty to repair to the ports of the empire of China, and to trade in tea and in all other productions of the said empire; subject to such regulations as Parliament shall enact for the protection of the commercial and political interests of this country. 2. "That it is expedient that, in case the East-India Company shall transfer to the Crown, on behalf of the Indian territory, all assets and claims of every description belonging to the said Company, the Crown, on behalf of the Indian territory, shall take on itself all the obligations of the said Company, of whatever description, and that the said Company shall receive from the revenues of the said territory such a sum, and paid in such a manner, and under such regulations, as Parliament shall enact. 3. "That it is expedient that the Government of the British possessions in India be intrusted to the said Company, under such conditions and regulations as Parliament shall enact, for the purpose
 741
 Mr. Wynn  said, the subject which the right hon. Gentleman had brought before the Committee was, in his opinion, of greater importance than any question, not even excepting that relating to the West Indies, which had been brought under the consideration of the House, during the present Session. Upon the manner in which it was treated would essentially depend the future condition of 90,000,000 of our fellow-creatures. It was with great pleasure that he had heard, towards the conclusion of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, a declaration which he wished had been made the subject of a distinct and substantive resolution, to occupy the first place in their proceedings—namely, "That all natives of India, without regard to their colour, descent, or religion, should be eligible to every office under the Government, which their education and acquirements might qualify them to fill." When he looked to the magnitude of the question, he could not help regretting, that it had been deferred to this late period of the Session. If the other measures which Government had brought before the House were to be proceeded with, this, he was sure, could not possibly receive that degree of attention which was necessary. He could not urge unnecessary delay, but even delay was preferable to a hurried and imperfect consideration, when the minds of all the Members must be distracted by the variety of other important subjects now before them. To the first Resolution he had not the slightest objection. For the time was come when the trade with China must be opened to the enterprise of the people of this country generally. Indeed, he had supported Mr. Canning in 1813, in objecting to tie up the China trade for so long a period as twenty years. It was thought, that it might be necessary to reconsider the question within a much shorter period, and events had justified that opinion, for there could be no doubt if Mr. Canning's motion for continuing the exclusive trade with China, for ten years only, instead of twenty, had been agreed to, the trade would have been thrown open long before this. The transactions of the last twenty years must have convinced every impartial observer, that it would have been desirable for Parliament to have
 742 743 Charles Grant 744 745 746 747 748 749 750 751
 Mr. Marjoribanks  having returned not many months ago, from China—having—had twenty years' experience in the trade between India and China; and having, in some measure, come under an engagement with his fellow-countrymen in China, to use his humble endeavours to render their very peculiar situation better understood and appreciated in this country, felt himself called upon to address the House. It was very far from his wish to enter, at that moment, into a discussion of the general question; but he might be permitted to say, in reply to the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, that to his proposition for a new constitution of the Court of Directors he was entirely opposed. He also thought that the manner in which the patronage of the Company was managed, was conducive to the good Government of England. He had visited every presidency, and had seen the system in actual operation; and he could conscientiously declare that no class of men in the world, bore, and deservedly bore, a higher character than the civil servants of the Company in India. These persons had been appointed by the Court of Directors under the existing system; and as far as his observations of the manner in which the patronage had been bestowed by the Court of Directors, it had tended to uphold the high reputation of this country throughout India. But he would advert to the principle upon which it was proposed to regulate our future intercourse with China. It was hardly necessary for him to remind the House that the time had been, when the British residents in Canton had been required to submit to a degree of degradation and oppression which never would have been tolerated in any other country or under any other circumstances. It was, and is the object to obtain a better understanding, and a great era had now arrived, when a wide field was about to be opened to our commerce. His right hon. friend had very well described the painful situation of British residents in China, placed as they had been in the most trying situation. Not only their property, but their lives, and those of their fellow-subjects, were at stake. He agreed with his right hon. friend, that the period had arrived when a change in the system ought to take place. It had been said, that we should trade as American vessels do—but without any prejudice towards the Americans, and re-
 753 754 755 756
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  suggested, as there could be no great objection to the Resolutions before the Committee, that they should be allowed to pass, and that the discussions upon them should take place at a further stage of the proceedings. If that appeared the wish of the House, he should refrain from speaking then, and reserve himself for a future occasion.
 Mr. Charles Grant , in answer to a question from Mr. Clay, said, that voting for these Resolutions would not pledge hon. Members to any specific course. He wished them to be adopted that night, in order that he might be enabled to bring in, as soon as possible, a bill founded upon them.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that as a suggestion had been made to defer the discussion on the subject to some future period, he felt it due to the House and to himself to explain the grounds on which he deemed it his duty, notwithstanding this sugges-
 757 758 759 760 761 762 763 764 765 766 l 767 768 769 770 771 772 773 l l l l l l l s l 774 l 775 776 777 Calcutta Journal l Calcutta Journal 778 779 Calcutta Journal 780 781 l l 782 l l l l l 783
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that though he had an extreme anxiety to put an end to the debate, yet he felt that as a Director he was called upon to make a few observations in answer to what had fallen from the hon. member for Sheffield. That hon. Gentleman had taken great pains, and had advanced every topic to show, that the government of India was a government by which India was ill governed, and which ought no longer to exist. The hon. Gentleman had opposed the Resolution for continuing the government of India in the hands of the Company, and the whole of his argument seemed to be derived from the assertion of Mr. Mill, who stated that in 1590 India was more flourishing than subsequently. To make a fair comparison he ought to have made the contrast when the Government of the country was in the hands of the Company. The hon. Gentleman had brought under review the state of India under Aurungzebe, and wished to make the Company answerable for the oppression of Nadir Shah, and then said, that because the country was not so prosperous as it was in 1590, the fault lay with the government of the Company. He (Mr. Fergusson) would venture to say that any person passing the frontiers of Bengal, and comparing the condition of that presidency, and the districts governed by the native princes, would see at once that in the one there was protection to person and property, and the other was given
 784 785
 Mr. Hume  rose to inquire of the right hon. Gentleman how much time was to intervene before he would take any further step with this measure? He protested against granting the Charter for a period of twenty years, and he thought that the very longest period to which it should be extended was ten years. He did not intend to make any further observations on the subject for the present, and his only purpose in rising was to ask when the right hon. Gentleman expected to bring in a Bill founded on these Resolutions, or what the next stage was to which he meant to proceed?
 Mr. Charles Grant : I shall bring in a bill as soon as the Resolutions have passed the House—at least a day or two afterwards.
 Mr. Shaw  could assure the House, that the introduction of the measure before them was viewed by the tradesmen of the metropolis, whom it was likely most especially to affect, with feelings of the greatest apprehension. The generality of them were of opinion, that its enactments would shake all credit in the country. For his part he could not see how any of its details could be carried into practice.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his thanks to his Majesty's Government for the introduction of the present measure, which, if carried, he was satisfied would be productive of great benefit, as well to the creditor as the debtor. He hoped his hon. and learned friend would lose no time in forwarding it, so as, if possible, to pass it during the present Session.
 The Solicitor General  doubted much whether the present Bill could be extended to Ireland, but admitted, that if it were, when carried into effect in England, found to work well, no time should be lost in proposing the introduction of a similar measure for Ireland.
 The Solicitor General : I rise with much reluctance at this late hour (one o'clock), to trespass on the attention of the House; but as I have been taunted by several hon. Members for postponing this Motion, and the delay which has already arisen has occasioned great disappointment out of doors, I must now beg to be permitted to give a short outline of the measure which I have to propose for abolishing imprisonment for debt, and for reforming the Law of Debtor and Creditor in this country. If I have the honour to obtain leave to bring in the Bill, and it is read a first time to-night, I shall name a distant day for the second reading, so that Members may be fully acquainted with its details before they come to the discussion of a plan of such importance and novelty. I could not venture simply to recommend abolishing imprisonment for debt, without substituting new remedies to enable the creditor to obtain satisfaction from the property of his debtor. The direct modes by which the property of the debtor can now be discovered and seized are so defective, that, till they are altered, it is probably necessary to give a power to imprison his person for the purpose of indirectly reaching his property, and compelling him to do justice. 786 787 l 788 choses in action bona et catalla l cessio bonorum 785* 786* l 787* in meditatione fugœ fugy warrant capias ad respondendum 788*
 Sir Robert Inglis  objected to a measure of such vast importance to the trading interests of the country being discussed at so late an hour, and suggested the propriety of ample time being afforded in order to enable those parties whose interests it principally affected to consider its provisions.
 Lord Althorp  expressed the happiness it gave him to be a party in the introduction of such a measure as his learned friend had just detailed. He was convinced it would work in every respect most beneficially.
 Mr. Pryme  did not consider that the question now was, whether the Coroner had done his duty or not; and, though he was to admit that Government had not taken the proper steps to prevent the meeting, still, he thought it was their duty to disabuse the public mind of the idea that a policeman, acting in the discharge of his duty, might be slain with impunity, even though he had exceeded the line of that duty. At all events the killing of Culley amounted to manslaughter, as was proved by the judgment of Chief Justice Best, in
 801
 Colonel Evans  quite agreed with the hon. member for Bradford in the impolicy of the House entering into a legal or judicial discussion on the subject at the present moment; but with respect to the conduct of the Executive Government, he must confess he thought it a fair subject for discussion. There was a disposition in the other side of the House to throw blame on the Jury, for the purpose of removing it from the Coroner; now, in his opinion, if any blame was to be attached to either party, it was most decidedly upon the Coroner, and not upon the Jury. Whatever the results of the trial might be against the different parties who had taken part in the meeting, he thought the House ought
 803
 The Attorney General  said, that he owed an apology to the House for his absence yesterday—he would certainly have been in his place when the matter was brought forward, but he had two reasons to state for his absence. In the first place, he was yesterday engaged in the Court of Exchequer in his professional capacity, and in the next, he was not at all aware of the intention of the hon. Member to present the petition on that day. Much had been said by hon. Members about the weight which should be given to the verdict of a Jury—no man had more veneration for such decisions than himself, but much must depend on the temper and judgment with which the Jury were actuated. He agreed with all those hon. Gentlemen who urged, that the doors of that House should be open to all petitioners; but it was not a question as to who had a right to petition that House, but what could with propriety be done by the House. In order to go into the merits of the case, it was necessary to trace the proceedings. It appeared that a placard was first issued calling upon the people to assemble and form a national convention. Now, no man could shut his eyes to the fact, that the forming of a national convention would be to supersede the legislative functions of that House. He thought it quite unnecessary to go into any argument upon this question, and he declined contending against the assumptions of the hon. Members who led the House to infer, that they were better acquainted with the intentions of those who called the meeting than others were. Besides this placard there were other papers published, to which the placard might be taken as the text, and it was only fair to take those in Connexion. It was necessary that the Government should be upon its guard to preserve the peace, but not necessary that it should swell the matter into undue importance by the issuing of a solemn Proclamation. A meeting being held, he would appeal to the plain sense and reason of those who heard him, whether it was not reasonable to infer, that the large meeting so assembled had been brought together by the placard, or was, in other words, the meeting intended to be held? What, then, ensued as respected the question before the House." Why, it was found, that the policeman was killed with a single blow by a weapon. And
 808 hear, hear 809
 Mr. Ruthven  thought the whole proceedings on the part of the coroner most disgraceful and scandalous, and deserved the reprobation of that House. He thought, that in bringing the subject forward in the Court of King's Bench, it had a tendency to induce a belief, that from the great array of legal knowledge against the unfortunate man who was to be tried for his life, he would not have a fair and impartial trial; and if he were convicted and executed, he would be considered merely as the victim of the despotic application of the law. He could instance some great cases in which a similar feeling had been manifested—viz. Lord William Russell, Sir Thomas More, and Sir Walter Raleigh, all of whom were certainly executed according to law, but certainly not according to justice. He would not
 810
 Mr. O'Connell  was certain that he was expressing the sense of that House, as well as his own, when he declared that the explanation of the right hon. Secretary was satisfactory. Nothing could be more proper than to put Shaw on his trial; and the Kildare Inspector, though he had heard his conduct on former occasions was praiseworthy, deserved for this last act of his to be dismissed. He and all the House must be satisfied with what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary respecting those two cases.
 Mr. Litlleton  said, that the statement of such cases, instead of being delayed, as was generally the case, for two or three weeks, for the purpose of being mentioned in that House, should be brought at once under the notice of Government, by laying them before the Irish-office, and redress would be granted, if it should be proved that the parties complaining were entitled to it. If the hon. Gentleman would move for an inquiry on the subject, it should be granted; and if he would give him (Mr. Littleton) a statement with regard to it, he would himself institute an inquiry into it, and he would subsequently state to the House what had been the result of an inquiry which should be conducted without favour or affection.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that he had certainly quoted the letter of Captain Flinter, but he had likewise quoted the answer sent to it by the Irish Government; and it was because the explanation given by Captain Flinter, in reply to that answer, was not satisfactory that he was dismissed.
 Lord Duncannon  said, that he had not said that the case of Captain Gunn was the only one which had occurred in Munster, but that it was the only one mentioned in the House.
 Mr. Ruthven  was disposed to recommend the House to proceed at once to the other Orders of the Day, rather than that it should prolong one of those desultory debates upon this question, which daily led to more altercation than beneficial discussion. His Majesty's Ministers were deluding themselves, and following an  ignis fatuus
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he differed from some Gentlemen with whom he generally agreed upon this subject. He took those Resolutions as a proof of a disposition on the part of Government to put an end to the bad system under which tithes were
 820 821
 Mr. Murray  without going all the length of the hon. member for Derbyshire; (Mr. Gisborne) could not but protest against the monstrous doctrine of the hon. and learned member for Dublin university (Mr. Shaw),
 837
 Sir Hussey Vivian  said, that though the numbers of the Protestants in Ireland were much smaller than those of the Catholics, yet the property in the hands of the Protestants was considerably greater; so that it was Protestant property after all which paid the greater portion of the tithe that was applied to the support of the Protestant Church.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he had been anxious for some time to make a few observations upon the Resolution under discussion, but felt considerable satisfaction that he had not succeeded in catching the Chairman's attention before, as he had now the greatest pleasure in expressing how entirely he approved of the sentiments just expressed by
 842 843
 Mr. O' Ferrall  said, that he thought, supposing the weight of the burden did eventually fall upon the landlords, they ought not to complain. In all arrangements of that kind, where a great national benefit was obtained, they could not expect to accomplish their object without encountering some difficulties.
 Major Macnamara  observed, that for the sake of preserving the peace of the country, he should willingly pay his portion of the tithes.
 Colonel Conolly  would not have obtruded himself upon the notice of the Committee, were it not for the observations which had been made by the hon. Gentleman, the member for the county of Kildare (Mr. Edward Ruthven). That hon. Gentleman had stated, that he was the Representative of a Roman Catholic constituency. "That cannot possibly be the case," said the hon. and gallant Member, "for I am one of his constituents." He (Colonel Conolly) must take the liberty of repeating, that the hon. Gentleman was grossly ignorant of the nature of the constituency of that county, if the hon. Member for a moment supposed himself to be the Representative of an exclusively Roman Catholic body. He however exculpated the hon. Gentleman from intentionally misrepresenting the fact, inasmuch as he was most probably ignorant of the character of the constituency of the county which he represented. The hon. Gentleman was not to be blamed for this, as he did not possess a single acre in the county. He would take that opportunity of stating, that the hon. Gentleman did not represent the property of the county of Kildare. He was brought into that House in consequence to his agitating the tithe question from one end of the county to the other. He would state it broadly, and without the fear of contradiction, that the hon. Member owed his seat in that House solely to the circumstance of his having entered into a crusade against the Established Church, and to his having decried tithes. He should be wanting to his own feelings—he should be wanting to common truth and justice, as well as to the character of the county in which he resided—were he not to lay before the House a statement of the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman owed his return. He, in common with all those who felt anxious for the welfare of the Church and the peace of Ireland, could not withhold expressing his grateful thanks for the boon his Majesty's Ministers were about to confer upon that most exemplary class of men—the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland. He was rejoiced to find, that there was now a prospect of relieving them from the starvation and misery to which they had been reduced. He was most happy to see, that Ministers Were at length sensitively awakened to the
 844
 Mr. Baldwin  could assure Ministers that they greatly deceived themselves if they supposed that by shifting the burthen of tithes from the tenant to the landlord, they thereby got rid of the national outcry against tithes. The only effect of the transfer would be the uniting the landlord and tenant in a close phalanx against the tithe-collector.
 Mr. Petre  was decidedly of opinion, that the Government could have acted in this affair in no other way than that in which they had. To say, that the death which had taken place in this instance was an act of justifiable homicide was to hold oat a premium to riot and murder. As to the force which had been sent down to the meeting, was it legal or illegal." There could be no doubt of its legality, and, as one of the best lawyers whom this country had ever seen had said, it was the most likely force to get rid of, and would be the best mode of getting rid, of military power in this country.
 Mr. Lamb  had only used the word loyal from the circumstance of its having been an assemblage going up to address the King.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that in his opinion, the speech of the hon. member for Derbyshire was one of the most sensible he I had heard in that House for some time; and however it might be received within those walls, would produce a great effect out of that House. It was, in his opinion, very unfair of the Government to throw upon the Irish landlords debts which they had never contracted. Government would have acted much more fairly, if, out of the 3,000,000 l.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the question which he took the liberty of putting to the Noble Lord the other night, with respect to the lay impropriators, was put, not with a view of embarrassing his Majesty's Ministers, but in the hope, that, following up his suggestions, the noble Lord would render the measure so complete as to secure the peace of the country. It was broadly stated that night, by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that oppression was carried to a much greater extent by the lay impropriators than the clergy. ["  Hear. 823
 Mr. Rotch  deprecated the attack that had been made upon the Coroner, without any notice whatever having been given to that individual or his friends. With regard to Ministers, the thing stood upon a different footing; the present discussion having been brought forward upon an understanding with them. With respect to the Coroner, he never could believe, that the charges which had been made against him were true. He had the honour of knowing him personally, and he would take upon himself to assert, that a more honest, conscientious, and upright man did not exist. He could not for his life see anything more in his conduct, than that he was astounded at the illegal conduct of the July, and had endeavoured, if possible, to prevail upon them to record a legal verdict. Hon. Members, instead of making these side-wind sort of charges against the Coroner, should come forward with a specific charge against him, as that would put the Coroner upon his defence; and he could assure the House, that he would be the last man to defend the Coroner if he thought that officer had acted improperly. In conclusion, the hon. Member deprecated such a discussion at the present moment, however much some hon. Members might feel gratified in making long speeches on the subject.
 Mr. Charles Walker  agreed with the last speaker, that the measure of his Majesty's Government would afford nothing but temporary relief, and he hesitated not to add, that it would lead to ultimate dissatisfaction. He was a Protestant, but he fearlessly acknowledged that he was ashamed of the Protestant pastors of Ireland. The whole outcry about the preservation of tithes was raised on their behalf; and though a numerous body of laymen had endured extensive losses by the late occurrences in Ireland, there would not have been a voice raised on their behalf, were it not that the interests of the lay impropriators and of the clerical body were bound up together. There was no denying the fact, that the Irish Church was an extortionate church. Yes, he would repeat, that it was not only extortion, but grievous injustice, to make the landlord pay debts which he had never incurred.
 Mr. Harvey  could not look at the terms of the Resolution with the narrow view under which it had as yet been contemplated. He objected, in the first place, that the people should be called upon to make up a deficiency which had been occasioned by, and which flowed out of, lawless violence.
 Mr. Harvey  resumed, and contended, that the proposition amounted to a premium to lawless violence, and an invitation to resistance to tithes, because it could not be supposed that the tithe-payers in England, who paid 7  s. s. s. d. l. l. l. 825
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, he thought that the tithes could not be justly applied to temporal objects. Three parts of Ireland were Roman Catholics, and only one-fourth Protestants; and under such circumstances, the Catholics had a right to demand, that at least one-half of the ecclesiastical property in the country should be devoted to Roman Catholic purposes. Ireland would never be contented, until the Catholic Church
 840
 Mr. Ronayne  declared the proposed measure to be a miserable expedient, and one that would not be found to answer the object intended. It might, perhaps, give temporary quiet to the country, but it would never prove permanently effective.
 Mr. Ronayne  agreed with the hon. member for Kildare, who had just sat down, that they had reason to congratulate themselves upon the tone of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, so altered and so different as it was from the tone of his immediate predecessor in that office. It had been stated by the noble Lord, the member for Nottingham (Lord Duncannon), on a former evening, that the case of Captain,
 817
 Mr. Littleton  said, he was sure the House would pardon him for not entering into arguments and topics that might add to the excitement which already prevailed on this subject. He must say, that he had his doubts as to whether the statement which the hon. Member had read to the House with regard to recent occurrences in Monaghan would turn out to be a correct account. He had frequently heard statements of a similar description made in that House, and on reference to the Irish office, he did not find that they were at all borne out by the information that had been received there. With regard to the two cases adverted to by the hon. member for Kildare—namely, the cases of Sub-inspector Flinter and Serjeant Shaw—what was the course which had boon pursued in those instances by the Irish government? He would tell the House what it had been. Sub-inspector Flinter had been dismissed; and the moment that the Lord-lieutenant heard of the case of Serjeant Shaw, his Excellency ordered that Serjeant Shaw should be brought to trial. There had been two distinct charges against Serjeant Shaw. The decision to which the Magistrates came on the first inquiry, lie was ready to admit, surprised him as much when he first read it as it did any hon. Member in that House. He thought that the opinion
 815
 Mr. Littleton  said, that when the tithe collection bill of last Session was put into operation, there were 104,285 l. l. l. l. l. l. 836 l.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven,  as the Representative of a large Catholic constituency, felt himself bound to resist any attempt to make that constituency support the ministers of a Protestant Church. It was as unjust to make a man pay for the maintenance of a religion which he did not believe, as it would be for a policeman to compel him with a bayonet to enter a Church where that religion was preached, and to remain there during the whole of the service. The people of Ireland were naturally averse from paying money which was diverted from the purpose to which it was originally applied; and for himself he would not pay it until he was forced to do so.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  said, that an attack more wanton and unconstitutional—a more ungenerous attack was never made by any
 845
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor said, that the Resolution would not give satisfaction unless altered according to the suggestion of the hon and learned member for Dublin—namely, by the extension of its provisions to the lay impropriators, who, the noble Lord must be aware, were the great cause of the Tithe Commutation in Ireland. If the same compensation was not extended to both the clerical and lay impropriators, an invidious distinction would be created between the tenants under each, and the agitation would still continue. He felt that he had been justified in advising the people not to pay tithes, because he was convinced that, but for the refusal, even this reduction of the immense taxation under which the people laboured would not be now proposed. He would himself resist the payment of tithes so long as they were so unjustly collected. Without the extension of the terms of the Resolution in the manner which had been suggested, no real benefit would be conferred, nor would the proposition answer the expectations of the people—expectations raised upon the pledges of the Government. Those pledges had not been fulfilled. True it was, that the Irish Church Temporalities Rill had passed, but the Government were afraid to carry it up to the other House; a Grand Jury Bill had been brought forward more complicated than all which had
 826 pari passu
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that nothing
 816
 Mr. Shaw  said, he was glad that the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Littleton) had already learned from his short experience in Irish affairs how little reliance was to be placed on such exaggerated statements as the House had heard that evening. The charge of costs being vexatiously put by the clergy on their parishioners was very easily answered. With regard to those arising out of the arrears of 1831, they were by Act of Parliament vested in the Crown. Sums large and small, returned as they must be on oath in the schedules of the clergy, were included in one order, but the people had abundant notice, that unless the
 818 819
 Mr. Shaw  said, the precept of the hon. Member who had just sat down was certainly much better than his example; for he accused others of wandering from the real question before the House. He promised to call hon. Members back to the Resolutions moved by the noble Lord; and he had given a dissertation on Toryism in general—on the House of Lords—on the Portuguese question—and various other subjects, which no one would contend had any connexion with the present question. However, on the point of the Established Church, he would, at once, join issue with the hon. Member; first, merely observing that he trusted the Government would take a salutary warning from the admission of the hon. Member, that his sole object in supporting the Irish Church Reform Bill, was, not to reform, but to destroy the Irish Church. The hon. Member accused his Majesty's Ministers of a desire to uphold it, as if that was a crime in them; but he would boldly tell his Majesty's Ministers, that it was their plain and positive duty to uphold the Established Church in Ireland, and that they could not abandon that duty, without dissevering the union between England and Ireland; of which it was an essential and fundamental article, that the Churches of England and Ireland shall be united, continued and preserved. Neither could they advise his Majesty to such a course without a violation of his solemn oath. Yes! (said the hon. and learned Member,) I unhesitatingly affirm that. I have never been the advocate of extreme views in reference to the Coronation Oath. In the discussion on the Church Bill, which at least professes to conduce to the efficiency of the Established Church, I have never alluded to the subject; but will any man of common sense—of common honour—or of common honesty, tell me, that a minister of the Crown could advise the King of Eng-
 833 Gisborne: 834 l. l. 835
 Mr. Finch  observed, that if it were wished to destroy the Church of Ireland altogether, it would be better to bring forward a distinct Motion for that purpose. The property of the Church was undoubtedly once national, but it was no longer so, and could not be touched without a violation of justice. He considered the Church Establishment of Ireland to be one of the noblest institutions in the world. He should certainly vote for the Resolutions, but he did so with pain, as he felt that was only a choice of evils.
 Mr. Sinclair  wished to ask his noble friend whether he really thought, that the money about to be voted for defraying the arrears due to the Irish clergy would ever be reimbursed? He was inclined to think, that, in this instance, as well as in many others, a loan was synonymous with a gift, and that it would turn out so in the end, when the period for repayment arrived. If the landlord was to submit to this burthen, he
 812
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the House must be prepared to give compensation to the Irish landlords, whose property by this measure they proposed to take away; it was impossible that they could otherwise carry their resolution into effect. Not only were they thus embarrassing themselves with the necessity of making this compensation, but they were creating a new source of animosity between the peasant and the landlord. It was impossible to look upon the measure otherwise than as a mere expedient, and it was at the same time impossible to look upon it otherwise than as a direct injustice and confiscation. When the tenant absconded in debt both to the landlord and to the parson, could there be anything like justice in affixing upon the landlord the double loss by compelling him to make good the debt to the parson? Nothing, therefore, could be more evident than that a compensation fund must be formed somewhere, and it would be the height of injustice to seek it from the resources of the nation at large, and still greater injustice to make the Catholic landlord pay that with which Protestant property alone should be encumbered. In his judgment, the best source from which to derive the means of compensation would be the Protestant Church property.
 Mr. Barron  was ready to pay his proportion of the tax as a landlord, if it were for the benefit of the people. This he considered as a temporary measure; but he hoped it would lead to a permanent Land-tax. The poor of Ireland had a right to maintenance and education out of the property of the Church of Ireland. The Church of Ireland and that of England were not in the same situation with regard to their property. The rights of the poor with respect to them were different in the two countries.
 Mr. Barron  must take that opportunity of complaining of the extraordinary measures which had been lately used for collecting tithes. He had, that day, received a letter from the county of Waterford representing those measures as extremely harsh. That letter was from the inhabitants of a parish in the county, stating that the costs of tithe-prosecutions were enormous. He had a question to put to the noble Lord—how were the costs to be provided for? He advised that a total stop should be put to those proceedings; if not, Ireland would soon be in a worse state than she was in in the year 1798. His county was proverbially a quiet one, but now it was in the most dreadful state of disturbance, owing to the way in which tithes were exacted.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that on a former evening, the hon. Member (Mr. Shaw) had said, that, if he (Mr. Henry Grattan) was not greatly belied, he was one of the worst landlords in Ireland. Now, when he was
 813 d. 814
 Mr. Lambert  said, he was the landlord of two parishes containing several thousand acres, and he wished to known how the tithes were to be recovered from the tenants, in the event of their running away?
 Mr. James Talbot  said, that on a question of such importance on which the peace and prosperity of the country depended, he could not but be anxious to express his opinion. He had found it difficult to comprehend the meaning of the Resolutions under consideration. He supposed it was meant that the landlord should pay the tithes, and that this was described by his Majesty's Ministers to be an act of justice. This might be so; but he should like to know what the landlords would call it. As far as he understood these Resolutions, he did not consider them to be beneficial even to the Church. The measures they pledged the House to promote, would not be sufficient to suppress the combination against the payment of tithes—which extended to all classes and all interests in Ireland. The same feeling which induced an assembly to resolve, that he who paid tithes was an enemy to his country, was likely for some time to animate every party in Ireland, and to stimulate them to further opposition One point had been greatly misunderstood by his Majesty's Ministers, by that House, and he had almost said, by the country. The people of Ireland did not complain of the actual amount of the tithe levied upon them. However grievous the imposition might be in many instances, and however vexatious the mode of collection, it was not to the amount, but to the appropriatim, that they objected; and whatever commutation might be introduced, so long as that appropriation remained as it was at present, it would be a lasting source of dissension and bloodshed. No man could be more averse to a system of passive resistance than himself. He deprecated it as much as any man in that House, or as any noble Lord in the other House, considering it a system which must lead to the most injurious results; at the same time he felt, and had always felt, that the collection of tithes for the purposes to which they were at present appropriated, could not be justified on any principle of equity or
 839
 Mr. Hardy  rose rather to put it to the House than for any other purpose, whether it could be useful and profitable to proceed with the discussion? The proceeding principally complained of was not a proceeding that tended to destroy Trial by Jury—it was merely the setting aside of an illegal verdict, which the Court of King's Bench was bound to do upon its being brought before it. The petitioners stated, that the proceeding was calculated to bring Trial by Jury into discredit, and they prayed that steps might be taken to prevent that. He knew not what steps could be taken, even if the petitioners' premises were right. The House had now been discussing this subject for nearly two days, and he was quite sure that, after all, it could only lead to a most fruitless result, if the conduct of Government, on this occasion, was to he called into question, that ought to be done on a specific motion, of which due notice ought to be given. It would not do at all times to treat such a meeting as this with contempt. Every one must know, that the meeting of 1780 was too long treated with contempt. If the conduct of the Coroner was to be impugned, it ought also to be by a specific motion. The Jury had committed an error, in consequence of which the verdict had been set aside [" No, no, it was the Coroner's error 802
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that his reason for bringing forward this petition at this time was, lest the proceedings which had been had recourse to should be regarded as a precedent hereafter; and he wished the country as strongly as possible to mark its disapproval of such a proceeding. There were three distinct points involved on this occasion'—the conduct of the government—of the police—and of the law officers of the Crown. As regarded the conduct of the police, no one in that House had risen up to attempt to defend it, except the Under Secretary opposite. Their conduct was highly impolitic and illegal. Admitting it to have been an illegal meeting, no breach of the peace had taken place, until a violent, unauthorized, attack was made by that force. The hon. Under Secretary shook his head at this, but that shake was opposed to the verdict, and to all the evidence given upon the inquest. The police had no right to make an unprovoked attack on his Majesty's peaceable subjects. The people cherished an inbred obedience to the law; that feeling would continue to grow until improper physical force was resorted to, and when Government could resort to that, instead of depending on their moral strength, resulting from the integrity of their course, and good feeling of the country,
 811 Mr. Lamb
 Mr. Hume  said, it would be satisfactory to know if any of the money advanced last year to the Irish clergy had been recovered?
 Mr. Bellew  would oppose the noble Lord's Resolutions, as he conceived they left the main evil of the tithe system in Ireland untouched—namely, the great disproportion between the remuneration of the clergyman of the Established Church and that possessed by the Presbyterian and Catholic pastors. The hon. Member read an extract from Mr. O'Brien's pamphlet on tithes, in order to show, that the cost of an episcopalian clergyman in Ireland was as twenty, while that of the Presbyterian clergyman but two, and the Catholic but one. Then, the revenues in the county of Clare, in which the writer lived, for the religious instruction of the members of the Established Church was 20 l. s.
 Mr. O'Ferrall  did not see how any English Member could feel himself justified in opposing the grant of money proposed by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because it was by the votes of English Members that the Church Establishment in Ireland was maintained. If Englishmen wished to enjoy the luxury of a sinecure Church, be had no objection; but they must expect to pay for it. He had no objection to the vote; but he hoped the amount of tithes due upon the land would be ascertained by a fair valuation. Not such as the average valuation of the last seven years, which would be anything but a fair one. The noble Lord must be well aware that the last seven years had exhibited a greater variation in the price of wheat and
 829 830
 Mr. O'Ferrall  observed, that if the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, acted up to the professions which he had made since he had been in office, Ireland would have reason to rejoice at the change which had placed him in the situation which he now held.
 Mr. Macleod  said, that he had not the benefit of much parliamentary experience, but from the little he knew, he should infer that it was not at all the practice of the House to receive such petitions as the one under discussion. If the House countenanced the reception of a petition from Jurors, complaining that their verdict had been set aside by a superior Court, it might next expect to be addressed by the Master of the Rolls, complaining that a decree of his Court had been reversed by the decision of a superior Court upon appeal. It had been argued that there was nothing to identify the parties assembled in Calthorpe-street, with those who issued the placard calling the meeting together; but he was of opinion, that the Government was bound to believe, that the intentions of the meeting, and the feeling of the meeting, were to be found in that placard. What was Government to do then, knowing as it did that the meeting would take place? It might be said, that Government could have taken
 798 Cheers
 Mr. Gisborne  said, it was clear that the Government, by their scheme, would merely shift the tithes from those who ought to pay it to the owners of the land, or, if it did not do that, it would merely make them the collectors of tithes instead of the clergymen. Last year, the House were told, that when the collectors of the tithes was transferred from the clergy to the Crown, all irritation would cease, and that they would, henceforth, be obtained with the utmost facility; but no one would venture to assert that this prediction had been verified; indeed, it was notorious, that it was more difficult to collect tithes now, than it had ever been before. Was it fair to put the landlords in the unenviable situation of collectors of tithes He disliked all this juggling—first, transferring the collection of tithes from the clergyman to the Crown, and then from the Crown to the landowner, whilst the substatitial grievance was allowed to remain behind. The real and substantial grievance was, that the people of Ireland were compelled to pay their money, to support a Church of which they did not approve, and that grievance, the present measure would not cure in the slightest degree. The proposition of Government was merely a miserable temporary palliative. He would other a single observation upon
 831 832 s. d.
 Mr. Christmas  could not agree that the landlord should pay in every case where the occupying tenant held by lease; and as to what had been said respecting the clergy demanding their six-and-fourpences and thirteen-and-tenpences, he must be permitted to observe, that if they gave up those small sums, it would amount to giving up their whole income. He was aware that opinions opposite to those which he held were advocated by gentlemen who professed the highest respect for the Church, and who declared that they did not want to do anything with the Church but to take away its revenues. He begged the House to remember, that tithes were not a tax which could be imposed or removed at pleasure—that they did, on the contrary, constitute a separate property; and if they were to be considered as separate property, with what consistency could hon. Members talk of extinction?
 Mr. Cobbett  said, with respect to impugning the conduct of the Coroner, he begged to remark, that it was not the fault of the hon. member for Bath that that Gentleman's conduct had come before the House; the Jury had petitioned the House in their own defence, and in the defence of their own character; and they prayed the House not to suffer a precedent to be laid down which would be injurious to the Trial by Jury. In defence of the Government and of his own conduct in applying to quash the inquisition, the learned Solicitor General had produced the inquisition of the Coroner to justify the steps he had taken. If he had not done that, the Coroner's conduct would never have been brought in question. If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Rotch), who was a friend of the Coroner's, wished to take his part, he must throw the blame on the Solicitor General, and not on the hon. member for Bath. If the hon. member for Cambridge (Mr. Pryime) had been in the House yesterday, he would have
 804 Lamb: Lamb: gens d'armes mouchards. gendarmerie 805 l. l. l. mouchards mouchards 806 primâ facie No, no gendarmerie 807
 Mr. Finn  said, the hon. Member who spoke last had asserted that there was no imputation cast upon the Jury; but how could such a statement be made, when it was notorious, that the Secretary of State had issued a Proclamation offering a reward for the conviction of the murderer of Culley—thus stamping the name of murderer on a man whom the Jury had declared, to have been justified in what he had done? He thought that the conduct of the Corner throughout the whole transaction was extremely culpable. The Coroner had attempted to influence the decision of the Jury, and during the inquest he had done all in his power to promote the selection of such evidence as would be likely to lead to a verdict of murder. In fact, it was evident that the Coroner was grossly partial, and no doubt, in preparing the verdict, he had kept back the first part from the Jury. The House should remember that it had been called upon to enact despotism in Ireland upon the verdict of the Jury at Carrickshock; and yet an hon. friend of his, who was present at that inquest, declared, that upon the same evidence, he should have brought in the same verdict. He admitted the general praiseworthy conduct of the police, and regretted that they should have been brought into disrepute by the Government. It seemed as if the Government set their faces against popular verdicts, and would only maintain such as were in accordance with their own views; but he implored Ministers to take a different course, and at least not fall into the errors and vices which had been committed in Ireland for the mere purpose of upholding their subordinates in the false steps they had taken.
 Mr. Finn  said, that the whole system of tithes in Ireland roust he altered. The Established Church in Ireland, received from 17 s. s. s. d.
 Colonel Verner  rose for the purpose of supporting the Resolution. The clergy were accused of tyranny and oppression, but he should like to ask those hon. Members who brought the charges how they would like to remain three years without their incomes. He much feared that many of those hon. Members would not in reality be satisfied with the abolition of tithe—what they sought fur was the destruction of the Established Church in Ireland. The clergy were accused of acting with tyranny and oppression—but their traducers had not the hardihood to state, that the clergy had not as good a right to their tithes as the landlord had to his rent; and yet for merely seeking by legal means to assert a legal right they were vilified and calumniated. Many of the clergy had been obliged to fly the country, and within the last few days one of that body had called upon him to state, that in consequence of his tithes being withheld and his life threatened, he was obliged to seek refuge in a foreign country. He stated, that previously to the late outcry being raised against tithes, he received his income regularly, and lived on the best terms with his parishioners; but when the minds of the people became inflamed, and he was forced to have recourse to legal means to recover his just rights, those kindly feelings which previously existed between him and his parishioners were severed, and the consequence was, that he was obliged to fly the country.
 The Speaker  said, that the question before the House was, that the Petition presented by the hon. member for Bath do lie upon the Table.
 Mr. Ward  said, that notwithstanding the exhortations of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House (Mr. Finch), he could not separate the present Resolutions from the general question of the Irish Church Establishment. He considered the two as indissolubly connected, and he should, therefore, beg leave to state, with reference to both, the reasons for which he should support the Resolutions then before the House. He should vote for them, not because he approved of them in principle, but because, having modified his individual opinions as to the Reform requisite in the Irish Church according to the Government standard—having diluted them down to the milk-and-water consistency of the Bill which he held in his hand, he was unwilling
 841 toto cœlo
 Mr. Montague Chapman  was also opposed to the noble Lord's Resolution—because they provided no remedy for the parent evil of the tithe system. It should be remembered that Ireland was not a Protestant country—that the mass of its inhabitants professed a religion different from that of the Established Church. Now, an Established Church meant a national Church, and till Ireland was converted to the Protestant faith the Established Church could
 838
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that the House might have been spared much acrimonious animadversion on the character of the clergy of Ireland, had the Irish Members formerly made the admissions
 828 s.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he understood only such land as had not paid tithe should be subject to the proposed tax.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, the greater part of the Jury were personally known to him, and he felt confident they were men who would act conscientiously upon their oath, and that they had given in this Verdict simply upon the evidence laid before them. If, however, it was possible to believe that the verdict was against evidence,
 799 800
 Lord Althorp : The plan Was to have all tithe able land taxed, but to allow receipts for tithes to be given in payment of the tax.
 Lord Althorp  had no doubt but it would be paid into the Exchequer, as it would be levied in the shape of a general land-tax.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the tax would be fixed upon the land; and, therefore, in the case put by the hon. Member, the person who took the land would be compelled to pay. So far, injustice would be done, but it could not be avoided.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the object of his Resolutions was precisely a land-tax; for the purpose of relieving the tenantry from the pressure of the arrears of tithe for the last three years, as well as for preceding periods. The proposed mode of effecting it was, that each parish should be applotted for the amount of tithe due, and that the parish should then have the power of applotting upon each individual in possession to the amount of his debt. And as it would of course be a great hardship that those who had paid their tithe should be subject to this tax, it was proposed to relieve them from it, and the receipts for the payment of their tithe would be a quittance in full. The object proposed to be attained by Government would be this; by the law, as it at present stood, after November next, the occupying tenant at will would be freed from the obligation to pay tithe, and the impost would tall upon the landlord. The Government intended to propose, that in every case where the landlord had not compounded, he might, within a certain time, come in and compound at a reduction of fifteen per cent. This would effect a great removal of pressure from the poorer classes in Ireland, from a body almost exclusively Catholics; while the landlords were almost as exclusively Protestants; and, therefore, the proposed relief would exactly apply to that part of the population most entitled to it. He hoped this explanation would suffice for the hon. member who spoke last, and he must now refer to what had fallen from the hon. member for Colchester (Mr. Harvey), whose support he was certainly glad to have; but he must confess, that had the hon. Gentleman not expressly promised his support, he should, from the apparent tendency of his observations, have antici-
 827 Harvey: Harvey:
 Lord Althorp  intimated that those who had paid their tithes would be allowed to put in the receipt in payment of the tax.
 Lord Althorp  said, that as the hon. and learned Member called upon him to say to what extent he meant to carry those Resolutions, he thought it necessary to answer him. With respect to the lay impropriators, the hon. and learned Member would Bee that the Resolution then before the
 822
 Lord Althorp  said, that the amount recovered was very small.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware that the power of Government extended only to the debts due to it, and not to those due to individuals. With those debts, therefore, the Government could not interfere. He hoped that Gentlemen would find, that it would not be necessary for the future to have recourse to the proceedings already so much complained of.
 Lord Althorp  said: I admired in common with others, the temper in which the present
 846 847 848
 Lord Althorp  said, the landlords would have every right to recover the land-tax from such tenants as owed their tithes.
 849
 Lord Ebrington  hoped that an arrangement might be made by which the claims of the lay impropriators would be taken into consideration, because he was persuaded that the work of conciliation, of which he trusted in God the present measure was the commencement, would be inadequate and incomplete unless the terms of the Resolution was extended to the lay impropriators. He, however, rejoiced at the satisfaction which had been expressed on the Resolution before the House, and he trusted that the able talents of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would be directed in aid of the Government in this work of the pacification and conciliation of Ireland.
 Mr. Tennyson  presented a Petition from an individual, praying for Vote by Ballot, Triennial Parliaments, and the exclusion of placemen from the House. He (Mr. Tennyson) was astonished that a notice on this subject, which had been given long ago by an hon. Member opposite (Mr. Wilks), had been postponed from time to time for so long a period. It was a most important subject, and became more so at this moment, when a dissolution of Parliament was talked of as extremely probable. He, however, was determined to take the opinion of the House upon it on the 2nd of July, when he intended to move a call of the House, that no Member might afterwards say he had not had an opportunity of giving his vote on the occasion.
 Colonel Evans  thought, that so far from its being inexpedient to bring on the question of Triennial Parliaments at the present time, it was most necessary that it should be settled, if, as many said, they were on the eve of dissolution. It was most extraordinary to see how many Members had acted on late occasions, considering the manner in which they had pledged themselves on the hustings.
 An Hon. Member  said, he would repeat in the House what he had stated on the hustings—that if pledges were required of him, he would rather a hundred to one not be elected. He was at all times willing to state his opinions to his constituents, but he would never pledge himself. Indeed he did not believe, that it was the general sense of the House that Members had pledged themselves so much as was sometimes said.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the affair of pledges lay within a very narrow compass. The question really was, whether the representatives were the servants or masters of their constituents. A Member merely pledged himself to his own opinions, which he was at liberty to change when he pleased; but when he did do so he should do so manfully, and give his constituents an opportunity of approving or disapproving of them.
 Colonel Williams , in supporting the prayer of the petition, observed that the petitioners had stood forward to complain of a great national grievance; they had too long truckled to the colonies, and he thought it high time that such a system should be put an end to, and a new one begun. He had voted, it was true, for the grant of twenty millions, but not for the purpose of compensation, thinking the parties entitled to none, but in order, if possible, to settle the question amicably.
 Mr. Strickland  was of opinion, that all monopolies ought to be removed, as destructive to the progress of commerce. Though it might be good policy to grant the twenty millions, he thought it would be much more than would be wanted.
 Mr. Goring  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice against
 916 917 "Nam quæ reverentia legûm, Quis metus aut pudor, est unquam properantis avari." 918
 Mr. Stanley  said, he believed that one of the ordinances of the Church was, that no person should preach a sermon unless in sacerdotal costume, which he thought the hon. Gentleman had transgressed. He was surprised too, that the hon. Gentleman should object so much to translation and yet use languge, that compelled the House to adopt it. Much of the hon. Gentleman's speech required translation. He would seriously put it to the hon. Member, whether this was a fitting occasion to introduce the discussion of such an important subject? He was in some respects disposed to agree with the hon. Member as to the injurious effects of translations. Thinking that the practice of translating a Bishop from one diocess to another, thus dissevering him from the acquaintances which he had formed in the one, and compelling him to make new ones in the other, and in that way diminishing to a great extent his means of general utility, was a practice that as far as possible should be discontinued and
 919
 Mr. Shaw  meant when they came to the clause for the reduction of the number of Bishops to propose as an Amendment, that the revenues of the different Bishoprics in Ireland should be reduced to the same amount which would render translations unlikely, and do away with the necessity of such a proposition as the present.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that as the measure was extremely likely to encounter considerable opposition in another place, they should introduce into it every clause that was calculated to give it a popular character, with a view, if possible, to secure its success. Now, as the system of translations was one with regard to which the public entertained a strong opinion, and as there could be no doubt as to the evils which arose from that practice, he should give his cordial support to the present Amendment.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the hon.
 920
 Mr. Briscoe  said, that the practice of translations was injurious both to the interests of religion and of the Church, but this was not the proper opportunity to discuss such a subject.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that the only object which would be affected by the adoption of the proposition would be the introduction of a technical Amendment into the Bill. If the practice of translations was to be abolished, the abolition should be effected upon a broad principle, equally applicable to the churches in both countries.
 Mr. Goring  said, that if they were to come into a collision with the other House on this measure, as it was reported would be the case, they should make it as good and as popular a measure as possible, in order that the people might see, that their interests were consulted in that House, and were not consulted in the other House of Parliament. In deference, however, to the opinion of the House, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 Dr. Lushington  hoped the hon. Member
 921 922
 The Chairman  said, that before he put the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Shoreham, he must first inquire from the Committee whether the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Shoreham could, according to the recital of the Bill, be properly entertained.
 Mr. Young  hoped the Committee would not at present be called upon to express an opinion in this respect, but that the hon. member for Shoreham would withdraw his Amendment in order to propose it at a more fitting opportunity, when it should have his (Mr. Young's) complete support.
 Mr. Goring  withdrew the Amendment, and the clause was agreed to.
 Mr. Halcombe  said: I rise to propose that the preamble to this clause be omitted. It recites, that "his Majesty has been pleased to signify, that he has placed at the disposal of Parliament his interest in the temporalities and custody thereof of the several bishoprics, and archbishoprics, mentioned in this act, and the schedule (B) thereto annexed"—and I object to this recital, not only as highly objectionable upon constitutional grounds, but as wholly unnecessary and mischievous, as throwing all the odium of originating this measure of spoliation of the Irish Church upon his Majesty. Sir, I very much regret that, being misled by the arrangements for this evening's proceedings, I was not here in time to move the Resolutions of which I had given notice for this evening, touching his Majesty's message to this House, which is recited in this preamble. In point of form, it is contrary to all precedent of parliamentary usage that this message has been brought down verbally to this House. I find it stated in Mr. Hatsell's precedents, that, except in matters personal to any Member of this House (in which cases a verbal message is adopted), the invariable rule is, that the message from the Crown
 923 expressio unius est exclusio alterius 924 pro tempore ex debito justitiœ 925 926 927 928
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the beneficial interest in Bishops' temporalities was vested in the Crown during the time that the sees might happen to be vacant, and therefore it was necessary that his Majesty should signify his assent to the measure before the House.
 Mr. Poulter  contended, that if the United Church of England and Ireland meant anything more than a spiritual union it could only be regarded as a reproach to the former. He did not deny, that many individual dignitaries of the Irish Church were adorned by the highest virtues, but the institution itself was founded upon a principle of conquest, and had gone on upon a principle of intolerance, and, therefore, could have nothing in common with a Church whose foundation at least was in the affections of the people, and to which happy distinction he trusted again to see it fully restored by the Reforms which had been commenced by the noble Lord. In Ireland the Protestant Church having been imposed upon the people by violence and force, and maintained by a system founded in those principles, had rather tended to retard the growth of the Reformation than to encourage and foster it; and even if the blessed light of those principles were to beam upon the minds of the people of
 929
 Mr. Lefroy  said, as he felt it his duty to give his most strenuous opposition to the present clause, he was anxious to state, as shortly as he could, to the Committee, his reasons for doing so; and as an hon. Member near him had claimed their indulgence on the ground of having many important English petitions against the Bill, he felt he had a not less strong claim, as he had been intrusted with many
 930 931 oculi episcopi. 932 933
 Sir Robert Inglis  contended, that the question was not, whether the Coronation Oath applied or not to this clause, as stated by his hon. friend, the member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter), but whether the Church of England and Ireland were one; and he had hoped, that the noble Lord would have declared that his hon.
 934
 Mr. Shaw  believed the present course was unprecedented, and asked the noble Lord, whether he could advance any instance of the consent of the Crown being given verbally, instead of under the sign manual, when any important right of the Crown was to be surrendered, although such a course might have been adopted in matters of minor importance.
 Lord Althorp  could not mention any case in which the present course had been adopted; and although it was more usual for the consent of the Crown to be given by the sign-manual in such cases, yet he could see no substantial objection to the present course.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he hoped it would not be denied, that in the previous discussions of the Bill, he had not urged objections that were captious, or offered any vexatious delay to its progress; but he considered
 935 936 937 l. 938 939 940 941
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  declined following the hon. and learned Gentleman through the various topics which he had dilated upon in the course of his speech, as they had nothing to do with the question before the House; and because their only tendency was, to distract the attention of the House from the calm consideration of the subject under discussion. In
 942 943 944 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  had not said, that the Government was bound by the opinions of what might be expressed by any Gentleman who sat on that side of the House, unless they disavowed those opinions,—but what he had said was this,—that the Government brought in a Bill for the purpose of making a different distribution of Church property a Ireland; and as the right hon.
 945
 Mr. Gisborne  begged leave to ask whether, admitting that the measure was opposed to the letter of the Union, the hon. Member was prepared to maintain that that act of Union was binding to the very letter on all successive legislatures for ever? The Union was nothing more than an Act of Parliament, and surely the power which gave existence to that Act existed in the Legislature still.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the Act of Union was not a mere ordinary Act of Parliament, but a solemn treaty which
 946 pro tanto s. d.
 Colonel Conolly  should be wanting in his duty to his constituents and his country, were he not to oppose the Bill then under consideration in every stage. He considered the measure as not merely injurious to the Church, but as more calculated to advance the projects of those who were hostile to the connexion of the two countries, than any one Act of Parliament that had ever been devised. He observed with regret that hon. Members in discussing this subject, treated the Church of Ireland as though it were not a portion of the United Church of Great Britain and Ireland. If Protestantism were, as he believed it to be, the purest faith, why then should not the professors of that faith in Ireland receive equal protection with their brethren in England? They held by their religion as faithfully as the people of Eng-
 947 948 949 950
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, he should not trespass long upon the time of the House, and in the few observations which he meant to offer would confine himself to the clause then before the Committee, which he thought one of the most important clauses in the Bill. He stated, on a former occasion, that the House having recognized the principle of the Bill, he would do everything in his power to reform the Church, as far as he could do, adhering to the preamble of the Bill, which set forth that it was intended for the purpose of promoting religion in Ireland. He would beg leave to call the attention of Ministers to the proposition which had been submitted by his hon. friend, the member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), and which had not been met by any hon. Gentleman who supported the Bill. Instead of diminishing the number of Bishops, he could not conceive why his Majesty's Government should not be content with diminishing their salaries as proposed; and thus the fund which, they stated, would be necessary to provide for Church-cess, and the augmentation of small livings, would be placed at their disposal, and the Protestants of Ireland saved from the degradation they must feel if the number of their Bishops were reduced. If Ministers wished to act in the true spirit of reform, why should they not equalize the revenues of the bishoprics—say, for instance, 4,000 l. 951
 Lord Althorp  said, that to leave the
 952
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the late Secretary for Ireland, had stated on a former occasion, that the principal object Ministers had in reducing the number of bishoprics in Ireland, was, for the purpose of creating a fund to meet the sum collected on account of Vestry-cess, and also for the purpose of increasing the salaries of the working clergy. Now it had been stated, and with great truth, that an ample fund could be found without inflicting the gratuitous insult upon the Protestants of Ireland which was meditated. He knew that reducing the number of Bishops would be felt in Ireland as an insult; and that it was a gratuitous one, no man who had heard the speech of his hon. friend (Mr. Shaw) could doubt. The right hon. Gentleman, also, in introducing the measure stated, that another object Ministers had in view was, to do away with abuses in the Church. Now, the only abuse they appeared inclined to remedy was, the curtailing of the number of Bishops. He had listened to the whole of the debates most attentively, and heard no other. His hon. friend, the member for the university of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), had asked a question which had met with no answer, and it was this—whether it would not be better that the Bishops of Derry and Raphoe should each have 4,000 l. l. 953
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, that a third of the Protestants of Ireland were Presbyterians, who hated the hierarchy as much as the Roman Catholics. If the Protestants were spread over Ireland as over England, twelve Bishops would be as sufficient for the area of Ireland as twenty-six for England.
 Sir Robert Bateson  could not permit the observations of the hon. member for Mayo (Mr. D. Browne) to pass without a reply. That hon. Member stated, that the Presbyterians of Ireland hated episcopacy even more than they did Popery. Now he (Sir R. Bateson) resided in a part of the country, the great body of the population of which was composed of Presbyterians, and on their part he must state, that they entertained neither hatred for episcopacy or popery. In truth there was no class of men who lived in greater harmony with the Church of England.
 Mr. Shaw  declined dividing, the Committee on the clause, upon the ground that, as he had stated, when he urged its postponement in the beginning of the evening, it must undergo further discussion when the hon. Members who were alluded to should be in the House, and when the question of the security of Church property should be settled, as, until then, he would not make any proposition touching the reduction of the incomes of future Bishops. He thought, therefore, that the division would be more conveniently taken at a future stage.
 Mr. Hill  said, he hoped that, as the lawyers had given up the pedantry of writing Latin, the physicians would condescend to give their prescriptions in plain English, which would, perhaps, be the means of preventing some accidents. He rose, however, for the purpose of respectfully suggesting to the hon. Secretary who brought in the Bill the propriety of taking care, that the interests of the provincial schools of medicine and surgery in England were duly attended to in his Bill. Many of them were of high repute, and well they deserved it. He hoped their certificates would be allowed to have their due weight in the new Act. It was of great importance that young men should obtain a good education at home, and not be sent too young to the metropolis; a source of great expense to their parents, and of danger to themselves.
 Mr. Ruthven  hoped some steps would be taken, in bringing forward the new Apothecaries' Act, to secure the public against danger from the incompetency of medical apprentices to read prescriptions.
 Mr. Hughes  added his testimony to that of his hon. friend as to the necessity of referring the subject to a Select Committee, to which he hoped the hon. Secretary would have no objection.
 Mr. Baldwin  complained that the proposed Bill for amending the Apothecaries' Act did not contemplate giving to the Members of the English and Irish colleges the same privileges it was intended to confer on the graduates of two or three of the Scotch Universities.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, he was one of those Members who gave pledges to their constituents at the hustings. He should, therefore, trespass for a few moments on the indulgence of the House in vindication
 907 908 909
 Mr. Lamb  admitted the importance of the question, and the necessity of not proceeding without the amplest information, but declared, that he considered the privileges at present enjoyed by the Company of Apothecaries were of an injurious and too extensive a character. Although he introduced the Bill, he was not pledged to all the details, and indeed he had deferred it, partly that time might be given to render it as effectual as possible. He thought that, under the present system there was a very injurious monopoly, and that some regulations should be made as to the mode and period of apprenticeship. Under ignorant practitioners the apprentices only learned bad Latin. He should have no objection to the appointment of a Committee to consider the details of the Bill; but he could not consent to refer so large a subject as the whole study of medicine and quackery to the same tribunal. It was his intention to proceed with the Bill this Session.
 Mr. Lamb  could not say anything as to the truth or falsehood of the allegations in the petition, but vindicated generally the conduct of the Commissioners. In so many inquiries mistakes were to be expected; certainly they could hardly be avoided.
 Lord Ashley  understood, that the principle of the Bill was conceded by the noble Lord; but he would like to know how far the concession extended.
 Lord Ashley  hoped that the noble Lord would not limit the principle of the Bill to children under fourteen years of age, but in Committee would go further. For his own part, he felt the strongest desire to conciliate all parties opposed to the Bill, as far as that could be done without giving up its principles, and in Committee he should be ready to withdraw those clauses which might be found most obnoxious. He trusted, however, to be able to improve the Bill; and his great object was, to gain the support of each party. He trusted the noble Lord would not only consent to have the evidence of the Commissioners laid on the Table, but to have it printed and circulated as speedily as possible. He begged the noble Lord to permit him to say, that he objected to the way in which evidence had been obtained from witnesses in this matter. He had received several letters—among others, one from Scotland that day—all expresive of dissatisfaction as to the method the Commissioners pursued in obtaining evidence. As little time as possible should be lost in producing the evidence, if the noble Lord wished the Bill to pass that Session.
 Major Beauclerk  supported the petition. The Commissioners had refused to make any reparation, though asked in the most gentlemanly way to do so.
 Major Beauclerk  meant, that the public had expected most rigid measures of economy from that House, and it was in that they were disappointed.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he came into that House with the greatest hopes on the subject of Triennial Parliaments; he knew that the great body of the people were deeply impressed with its necessity; they
 904
 Mr. Hawes  was of opinion, from the communication he had had with many respectable practitioners, that the subject ought to be referred to a Committee. It was necessary that the poor should be guarded from the practices of ignorant practitioners, as it was the poor who suffered by that ignorance, and not the rich, who could afford to get the best and most talented advice.
 Mr. Hawes  stated, that with regard to the Repeal of the Septennial Act, when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Tennyson) brought it forward, he would give it his support.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  trusted the Report would not now be looked upon as a good authority, and cited against the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, the only difference seemed to be in what gentlemen denominated the public. The hon. member for Boston seemed to apply that term
 906 The True Sun.
 Mr. Shaw  did not believe the House was reduced to the dilemma assumed by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, as being either the masters or servants of the people. They were bound to state their opinions, and to act according to their own judgment; they were bound to state their opinions to their constituents, and leave their election in their hands, but he would not for a hundred constituencies vote against his opinion.
 Mr. Buckingham  was convinced that one of the causes of the depression of the shipping and commercial interests of this country arose from the excessive imposts on every species of raw produce brought from every part of the world.
 Mr. Briscoe  trusted that the Apothecaries' Bill would be referred to a Committee; that certainly no step would be taken to repeal the present law respecting apothecaries, except on the fullest information as to its utility and necessity. It was of the highest importance that the poor and others should be protected
 913
 Mr. Wilks  said, he did not agree with the hon. member for Surrey, that the public had a right to complain of the conduct of that House. It had paid as much attention to public business, and had gone on with as much expedition with measures of the very utmost importance, as any enlightened constituency could possibly desire. He did not think that the question of Triennial Parliaments was one of such an urgent nature as would have justified him in forcing it on the attention of the House at that late period of the Session. He thought, in pursuing the course he had done, he had best consulted the interests of the public; for the question could not now receive that serious and attentive discussion which it would do at the beginning of the next Session, and which it required from its vast importance. It was under those circumstances that he had deferred the Motion, following the example of many hon. Members; but when the question was brought on by the hon. Member, he should not only have his (Mr. Wilks's) vote, but all the assistance it was in his power to give him.
 Mr. Hurst  presented a Petition from Horsham, complaining of the misrepresentations of the Poor Laws Commissioners in their description of the effect of the rates there in consequence of the riotous proceedings of 1830, &c. They prayed that such description be expunged as of injurious tendency to the character of the neigh-
 914
 Mr. Cobbett : The hon. member for Boston had brought forward the question of Triennial Parliaments last Session. The hon. Alderman (Wood) had been directed to give notice of a Motion of that nature on the first day of the Session; but he apologised for not doing so because the hon. member for Boston claimed priority, as it had been in his hands before. So that the question was to be kicked about in that way, and never be brought on at all. He (Mr. Cobbett) was very much obliged to the hon member for Lambeth, and he hoped he would persevere in his call of the House, and show who those were that wished to sit there for seven years, and also those who were not afraid to go back to their constituents at the end of three years.
 Mr. Ewart  presented a petition from the merchants and shipowners of Liverpool, praying for the removal of all restrictions upon the importation of sugar for the purposes of refining. The petitioners stated, that they carried on an extensive commerce with Brazil, St. Domingo, Cuba, India, Batavia, and the Indian Archipelago, which countries were mainly supplied with British manufactures, but that owing to the high and prohibitory duties levied on the chief productions of those countries (sugar and coffee) imported into this
 910 l. l. l. l. 911
 Mr. Finn  said, there was no doubt but that Triennial Parliaments would be most desirable; but he really believed, that it was not of much importance at the present moment, for he believed that that Parliament would not sit two years. The hon. member for East Surrey seemed to forget the atrocious conduct of that House with regard to Ireland. That part of its conduct had not much conciliated the favour of the public; then the flippant manner in which they had voted away twenty millions the other night, adding to the burthens of the already overburthened people, would also be borne in mind. It was really most astonishing to see the manner in which that vote had been supported, when it was remembered the pledges of economy that many of the Members had given on the hustings. He had seen but little to approve of in the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers—their new mode of settling the tithe question in Ireland, by taking the burden from the man who owed it, and placing it on the shoulders of another, might give peace for a time, but nothing would do but laying the axe to the root. The Church in Ireland must be put an end to before any but a temporary peace would be established in that country. Then as to the question of pledges, they had been much repudiated in that House. It was said, that no man who was pledged was an independent man, and that, too, by men who themselves made pledges while on the hustings. He denied such doctrine. Were Members sent to that House to represent their own opinions? He would say no, but to represent those of their constituents. The people had a right to exact pledges from all candidates, and if he had a vote, he would not give it to any one who did not fully state his opinions upon all great questions, and that was pledging.
 Sir Edward Codrington  expressed his perfect readiness to pledge himself to certain principles, but he had never given a pledge to any specific measure. He would have no objection to bind himself to certain principles, but not to the extent to which he might find it necessary to carry them.
 Mr. Clay  wished to ask the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question relative to the declaration he had made on a former occasion with regard to the admission of foreign sugars for the purpose of being refined and exported. He was anxious to know whether Government was prepared to carry that beneficial operation, of which notice had been given, into immediate execution, or whether the sugar-refining trade of this country was to be ruined by further delay? From important facts which had come to his knowledge, he could state that orders had been received in town for the machinery constructed upon new principles, for ten refining manufactories upon the continent; and if the refining trade were transferred to the continent, the sugar refiners here would have an additional difficulty to contend with, and he much feared it would be impossible to retrieve the evils which might result.
 Mr. Hutt  presented a Petition from medical practitioners of Hull, for the repeal of the Apothecaries' Act.
 Lord Althorp : As far as it related to children; for what he meant was, to prohibit children under fourteen years of age, by regulations, as to the time of labour. The noble Lord must be aware that he
 915
 Lord Althorp  would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, as he considered it necessary to put some restrictions on the labour of children. The Report of the Commissioners, however, was not yet ready to be laid upon the Table of the House. It would be ready next week, and might be considered when the House was in Committee on the Bill. It was the opinion of the Commissioners, with respect to the Noble Lord's Bill, that some of its clauses went further than was necessary, and some of them did not go far enough.
 Lord Althorp , in answering the question, could only state what in effect he had said on a former occasion. It cer-
 912
 Colonel Evans  would not occupy much of the attention of the House on the present occasion. The object of his Motion was, to repeal the proviso in the 27th clause of the Reform Act, relative to the payment of rates and taxes as a qualification for exercising the elective franchise. The effect of that clause, which was a very short one, had been, as he was informed, to disfranchise not fewer than 300,000 voters all over the country. In Westminster it was expected that the number of voters, under the Reform Bill,
 962 l. l.
 Colonel Wood  said, it appeared that with the hon. member for Middlesex, it was a matter of utter indifference whether the landlords and agriculturists were ruined or not. He was glad the noble Lord had not taken the advice of the hon. member for Middlesex, and foreborne from going into an inconvenient discussion on the subject. He was quite sure that if the six weeks employed on the Irish Coercion Bill had been employed on the Corn Question, the result would have been a Report from the Committee that the present Corn-laws gave to the grower and the consumer the fairest price that could be established for the interests of both. The law as it now stood was not originally adopted by a willing House of Commons, but had emanated from the distress in which both the manufacturers and the agriculturists were involved, and this circumstance forced Gentlemen on both sides of the House to unite in placing the question on its present basis. He was sure that the landed interests were quite as much identified with the lower orders of the people as the manufacturers. The hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion charged the agriculturists with being the cause of dear bread, but he admitted that the manufacturers worked the children in their factories sixteen hours a day. He would say, let us adhere to the adage, "Live and let live," Convinced he was, that so far as regarded rents, the agriculturists did not look to the Corn-laws to keep them up. If the whole rental of the country were abandoned to-morrow it would not make a difference of 1 s.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. and
 972
 Major Handley  said, that if the Corn Laws were as disastrous in their effects as they were described to be, they ought to be instantly repealed; but he should be prepared to show, whenever the proper time came, that the effects of those laws were very much misunderstood. He deplored very much the jealousy which was getting up between the different classes, which could only be injurious to both. For the agriculturists, he claimed a protection commensurate to the heavy burthens which were laid on the landed interest; and he was sure, whatever the manufacturers might suppose, that the ruin of the agriculturists would be the annihilation of their own hopes. He wished the manufacturers to look to the home market. There was a time when the use of tea, and sugar, and fine clothes were unknown, but they were now found in every cottage in the country. The farmers formerly spun and made their own cloth, and went without these luxuries, and probably were as happy then as now; if they were to return to their former habits, it was not for him to say who would be the principal losers. If the Legislature relieved the farmers from the Poor-rate, which, in 1792, was 2,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 The Earl of Darlington  regretted, that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) should
 973
 Colonel Evans  replied. He had heard no satisfactory reply from the noble Lord to the objections which he had stated to the clause referred to in the Reform Bill. The conduct of his Majesty's Ministers, in resisting this Motion, was not calculated to increase their popularity in the country. He felt compelled to go to a division on the Motion.
 Colonel Evans  said, the Corn-laws were a monopoly of the worst description, and he could not understand how any Administration which advocated free trade, could keep up that monopoly. They were about to open the trade to China, why not open the Corn monopoly. He thought this a very good opportunity for making the alteration; for, by letting the Colonies send all their produce here, we might make some abatement in the 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought, as respected the end of the Session, that this was not a favourable opportunity for making the present Motion; but, as respected the full employment of the manufacturers, it was a most favourable time to alter the Corn-laws. It would be far better to do it, when the manufacturers were employed and contented, than to do it under the pressure of their great distress. He would not then enter into the subject; but he could not avoid making an observation or two. For example, he put it to Gentlemen to consider for one moment what would have been the state of the hand-loom weavers in Lancashire at this time, if the Corn trade had been thrown open, and kept open since the peace? It was plain, that there would have been a steady demand for the produce of their labour to pay for the foreign corn, and they would have been much better off than they now were. If that market had
 974
 Major Hundley : I have a Petition to present from Charles Frederick Barber, of Boston, in the county of Lincoln. The fact of the existence of the public grievance here complained of—namely, corporate abuses—does not rest solely upon this document. A petition, containing similar allegations, and signed by many inhabitants of Boston, was, I believe, presented to this House by my hon. colleague about two months ago. That which is new to the House is the individual case of Mr. Barber, which demonstrates clearly the injury inflicted upon him individually, and upon the community at large, by the practices complained of. The petitioner accuses the Corporation of Boston of having applied to political and party purposes their authority as Magistrates, and the resources of the town of which they are trustees—of having expended large sums of money to uphold illegal claims. He asserts, also, that at all the late elections for Members of Parliament, they have been in the habit of forcing their dependents to vote according to their dictation under pain of losing their situations. Upon these public grounds Mr. Barber appears before the
 957 l. l. l. 958 certiorari l. 959 960 961
 Lord Althorp  did not object to leave being given to bring in the Bill, but advised the hon. Member not to press it, as it would be utterly impossible to get through the subject this Session.
 Mr. Hume  thought it a pity to waste the time of the House by bringing in a Bill on this subject at this period of the Session, nor did he see why they should legislate on this subject expressly for the people of Scotland—why should there not be one law for both countries?
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  said, the hon. member for Middlesex appeared to think that any measure brought in for England might be applied to Scotland, but he would inform the hon. Member, that the Bill which had already been thrown out did not go far enough for the people of Scotland. He knew the feelings of the people of Scotland; and he hoped the hon. Baronet would take high ground.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, it was impossible to consider the subject satisfactorily this Session; and he hoped the noble Lord's good nature would not induce him to permit the time of the House to be wasted by the introduction of a measure of this description.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought it would be hard indeed upon the hon. Baronet, who had taken so much time and pains to make himself acquainted with this subject, to refuse him an opportunity of having his Bill discussed, unless, indeed, they were
 978
 Mr. Pryme  did not think it desirable that there should be any variation between the laws for England and Scotland in this particular.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  said, he had seconded the Motion of his hon. friend without pledging himself as to its details. He confessed, however, that he was surprised at the course taken by the hon. member for Middlesex, which, after all, was  vox, et prœterea nihil.
 Mr. Potter  said, that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Johnstone) had said, that the Bill formerly introduced by the hon. Baronet did not go far enough for the people of Scotland, and they all knew what sort of a Bill that was, and how it was received both in doors and out of doors. From this statement, the House might judge what sort of a Bill the hon. Baronet proposed to introduce now.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, he did not wish to introduce a new law, but to amend existing laws.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, that he would support the Motion on this ground, that if the Motion were carried, and a Bill brought into the House, they would then be able to say what alteration could be effected in the present system of Corn-laws. He would have contented himself with this declaration, had it not been for the extraordinary conclusions at which the hon. member for Durham (Mr. Pease) appeared to have arrived. He (Mr. Whitmore) denied the accuracy of those conclusions, contending, that if the trade in corn were to be thrown open, very little of the land, if any, would be thrown out of cultivation. The Corn-laws were greatly injurious to the agriculturists themselves, and, if repealed, a greater impulse, he contended, would be given to the manufactures and general commerce of the kingdom, and consequently greater prosperity to the agricultural interest. They rested, in fact, on no solid foundation in reason. He had so recently, however, discussed the merits of the question, that he would not now take up the time of the House by making any further observations on the subject.
 Mr. Pryme  rose pursuant to notice, and proposed that all the words after the words "Episcopal See," in that Clause, should be left out for the purpose of inserting the following Amendment:—" And be it enacted, that no Bishop, who was not, at the time of passing this Act, in possession of an Episcopal See in Ireland, shall hereafter sit in rotation in the House of Peers; and that whenever the number of the Irish Bishops who now possessed sees, shall, by decease or demise, be reduced to twelve, then two Irish Bishops only shall sit in the House of Peers: and whenever the number of Bishops who are now in possession of Sees in Ireland, shall be reduced to six, then one Bishop only should sit in the House of Peers; and whenever all such Bishops shall become extinct, then, that the right of all the Irish Bishops to sit in Parliament shall entirely cease; provided always, that nothing in this clause contained shall prejudice the right of an Irish Archbishop to sit in Parliament." His object was to separate the offices of politician and churchman, which were not compatible. By relieving the Irish prelates from the burthen of acting as legislators
 982
 Mr. Stanley  had, on a former occasion, objected to a Motion in reference to the translation of the Irish Bishops, on the ground that such a proposition was ill-timed, as not being consistent with the object and details of the present Bill;  a fortiori Cheers
 Mr. Wynn  said, this was a most serious question—for on what right did the Irish Bishops hold their seats in Parliament? Upon a solemn compact, agreed to between the two nations, when there were twenty-two Bishops holding seats in the Irish House of Peers. It was by that compact agreed that they should be represented in the United Parliament by one Archbishop and three Bishops. Others might insist that absenteeism was the great bane of Ireland, and on that ground propose that the twenty-eight temporal Peers should be reduced to sixteen, or to eight—leaving the remainder to reside in Ireland for the benefit of the country. If the one proposition were adopted, there was no reason whatever which could be urged against the other.
 Mr. Pryme , as he found that the sense of the House was against his proposition being brought forward in its present shape, expressed his disposition to withdraw it.
 Mr. Pryme  proposed an amendment, to reduce the annual value of the Irish bishoprics, on the next avoidance, to a sum not exceeding 5,000 l. l.
 Mr. Stanley  said, he understood the object the hon. Member had in view, but he did not perceive how that object could be achieved by the Amendment he had proposed; and if the hon. Member's Amendment should be adopted, the preamble to the clause would run thus—" Whereas the revenues of the archbishopric of Armagh, and bishopric of Derry, and the other archbishoprics and bishoprics in Ireland, greatly exceed the other bishoprics in Ireland, it is expedient to diminish such excess." Such would be the wording of the clause, and he need not say that it was impossible that it could be agreed to in that shape. Undoubtedly they had left to the Primate of all Ireland a large, and perhaps in the opinion of some, a splendid income. Allusion had been made to the present primate, and he (Mr. Stanley) was sure it would be readily admitted by every one who had the least knowledge of that distinguished individual, that there never was a prelate whose conduct was more exemplary, and however large his See might be, it was impossible that it could have been expended in a manner more serviceable to the Church, or more beneficially to the community at large, than it had been by the distinguished prelate at the head of the Irish Church; and as to the patronage which his Grace possessed, he believed that not a single relative of the primate's had been promoted by him to a benefice. The present income of the primate was to be continued to him for life, but afterwards the revenue of the archbishopric would be reduced to 9,000 l. l. 990 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Wynn  objected to the Bishop of Derry having a higher salary than the Archbishop of Dublin. He also thought that 10,000 l.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex had contended, that political and religious duties could not go hand in hand. He knew well the sort of friendship the hon. member for Middlesex felt for the Established Church; but he (Colonel Perceval) viewed the hon. Member's attack upon the Irish Representative Bishops as a direct attack upon the House of Peers. It was well known that
 984
 Mr. Ronayne  begged to call the attention of the House to a Motion which he considered of great importance. It had reference to persons who had been imprisoned for tithes. The persons imprisoned under the tithe laws at Kilmainham, Kildare, and other parts of Ireland, were allowed every possible indulgence; they were permitted to have wine and such other necessaries as they wished to procure, while those imprisoned in the gaol of the county of Cork were treated with the greatest cruelty. They were locked up in stone ceils at four o'clock in the day, and treated in every respect as convict felons. One of the persons so treated was his own cousin-german. He applied to Judge Moore, by whom the parties had been tried, and that learned and humane Judge immediately applied to the Castle, and the consequence was, that the High Sheriff of the county of Cork was called upon to report upon the case. That gentleman did make his report, and the case was again referred to Judge Moore, who expressed his indignation at finding that three persons had been confined in a cell about ten feet square, and subjected to such persecution. He (Mr. Ronayne) applied day after day, to Sir William Cosset (the Lord-lieutenant's private Secretary) on the subject, until he at length gave it up from a feeling that the Government found themselves too weak to oppose themselves to the Conservative Committee of Magistrates of the county of Cork. He hoped the House would not, under these circumstances, reject his Motion for the production of the documents necessary to explain the whole of this transaction. He would mention a fact or two, which perhaps the House might laugh at, but which no honest man could fail to give weight to. The first was, that when the Sheriff and he visited the:
 980
 Mr. Littleton  should have no objection to the production of the documents required, as he was convinced that they would add to the confidence which the people reposed in the Government, He would, therefore, accede to the production
 981
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, that in seconding the Motion, he felt it his duty to say a few words, because he had acted as counsel for the accused parties. He had advised them the course which they had pursued upon their trial, but upon hearing of their sufferings in gaol, he felt it his duty to represent the case to Judge Moore, who said he would not have passed such a sentence upon them, had he known that they were to be so punished in gaol. If the Motion of his hon. friend were to be refused, he did not see how any Motion for the production of papers could be carried, and the result would be, that the magistrates of Ireland would be an irresponsible body.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he could not, on hearing the amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman, avoid turning to the order book, as he recollected that on that night week the hon. Member had a notice for a substantive Motion on the same subject standing in his name. But, strange to say, upon reference to the terms of that motion, it appeared to have for its object the removing of all disabilities that prohibited clergymen from sitting in that House. Now, he would leave it to the hon. Member to reconcile the inconsistency between that Motion and his present Amendment, the more particularly as the ground upon which he rested his Amendment that night was the "incompatibility of the offices of politician
 983
 Mr. Shaw  said, he hoped the whole arrangement with respect to the Archbishops and Bishops, would be reconsidered by his Majesty's Government; but as there was a confusion between the words Tuam and Cashel, he merely for the present suggested as a verbal Amendment, that they should throughout the clause stand, "Tuam and Cashel," as under the present arrangement, the archiepiscopal jurisdiction of Tuam was to merge in Armagh, and Cashel in that of Dublin.
 Mr. Shaw  said, with respect to the Archbishop of Dublin, he could bear testimony to the great expenses that were incident to that particular See, and he heard individuals who had been translated from smaller sees with nominally a less income say, that they found themselves losers in a pecuniary point of view. As regarded the Primate, it was quite impossible that any income however large, could be expended with more advantage to the country, or so as to reflect more honour on the Established Church, than by leaving it at the discretion of the distinguished and revered individual who then adorned that high office. He felt, that the system of equality in the incomes of the Bishops was not free from objection and difficulty; but he still considered it far preferable to a reduction of their numbers, and to the last moment before this Bill should pass into a law, he would cling to the hope that the Government would abandon that most objectionable portion of it, which went to diminish the influence
 991
 Mr. Shaw  said, that this discussion had incidentally taken a very serious turn, which could not at all have been anticipated from the Amendment introduced by the hon. Member. He had heard, as well as his hon. friend (Sir Edward Knatchbull) with pleasure, the distinct disavowal of the noble Lord, of the extraordinary doctrines which had been broached, with reference to the House of Lords. But he must say, that the noble Lord had not been equally explicit with respect to the new and highly dangerous construction that it was sought by hon. Members to put upon the Act of Union. He solemnly protested against the Act of Union being treated as an ordinary Act of Parliament. It had been well described by his right hon. friend (Mr. Wynn) as a national compact, and if that compact were violated, he for one, as an Irishman, independently of all peculiar or party politics, would deny the competency of any other than the original contracting parties to resettle that great question. The hon. and learned member for Dublin might well remain quiet, and rest satisfied, while English Members were doing more to promote the great object of his wishes, than any individual exertion of his own could possibly accomplish. His Majesty's Ministers were greatly mistaken, if they for a moment supposed that there was not much nationality of feeling in Ireland on this exciting subject. And he thought a more inappropriate opportunity could not have been selected by his Majesty's Ministers to evince indifference to the levity with which the Act of Union had been treated by English Members, than upon a discussion relating to the church establishment in Ireland; for he could not repeat too often that the continuance and preservation of the Irish branch of the united church, which had that night been so lightly spoken of, indeed, so openly denounced, was not only an essential and fundamental part of
 988
 Mr. Shaw  fully agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Estcourt) that it was unfair to bring the full charge against these prelates, when possibly their rents might be in arrear. Such a mode of taxation would be considered unjust in the case of other landed proprietors. He particularly objected to this principle, as in case of his suggestion being adopted of reducing the incomes rather than the number of the other bishoprics, it might be generally applied. He had before slated that in
 989 l. l.
 Mr. Aglionby  would support the Motion, as it did not go to put an end to the Corn-laws, but only to modify them. Certainly the present laws had been intended to protect the agriculturists, and in that light they had failed.
 Mr. Buckingham  supported the petition. The claim was only for 100,000 l.
 Mr. Benett  said, that to have an open trade would lower the price of corn in the first instance, then the land would go out of cultivation, then would come scarcity, and then there would be a famine price. Under the free system, the people would be continually exposed to fluctuations—one year starving, and the other rioting in abundance; one year the manufacturers would be plunged in the deepest distress, and the next the agricultural
 976
 Mr. Leech  said, that he had never raised his rents for upwards of forty years, and that they were not so well paid now as formerly. This he mentioned to show the "great advantage" he derived from the much-talked-of monopoly of the Corn-laws. He presumed that other agriculturists were enjoying the same beneficial effects from it. He could not, of course, know what proportion the rents of others bore now to that which they did in the first period. He knew, too, that many respectable tradesmen of the different towns in his neighbourhood complained most bitterly, and most justly, of the very high prices of corn during the extravagantly dear times; but when corn afterwards fell to ruinously low prices, those very gentlemen assured bins that they suffered greatly from being thereby deprived of the custom of their best friends.
 Mr. Parker  presented a Petition from the Corporation of Cutlers in Sheffield, setting forth that they, in common with others of his Majesty's subjects, had sustained great loss in consequence of the confiscation, several years ago, of property to a large amount by the Danish government, which belonged to British subjects. The hon. Member, in laying that petition before the House, pressed upon their attention the oppressive and unjust conduct of the Danish government, and their utter disregard of those principles which had hitherto regulated civilized warfare. But the petitioners had also a strong claim on our Government, arising from the fact, that our Government had confiscated 1,200,000 l.
 Mr. Wilks  supported the prayer of the petition, and expressed a hope, that when the question of Corporations was brought before the House, it would not forget the case of Boston, and of the unfortunate Barber.
 Mr. Hume  regretted that this alteration was not to be included amongst the intended amendments. During the Mary-
 964 bonâ fide l.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the noble Lord was opposed to this amendment of the Reform Bill. If, as the noble Lord admitted, the effect of the clause in question had been to limit the constituency, and as, of course, the noble Lord's object was to enlarge the constituency, he was surprised to find the noble Lord oppose this Motion. He understood the noble Lord to say, that he would agree to this alteration next year.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that many of the topics which had been urged by the hon. member for Wolverhampton were well worthy the attention of the House and the Government. The real question was, whether it was fit that the people of England should get their food as cheaply as possible and be fully employed. The present system effected neither, and he agreed with the hon. member in thinking that a change would effect both those objects. Was the present system of injustice to continue until the next Session, or was the Legislature to perpetuate the misery and starvation arising from the existing law? It ought not to be. He concurred with the hon. member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Fryer) in thinking, that the present system would ultimately ruin the landholders. If they wished to persist, he (Mr. Hume) cared little if they were ruined, and in that respect they might have their own way. But this question affected other parties besides the landed gentry, and whom it was the duty of the Government to protect. He could not help thinking that the landed proprietors ought themselves to be the first to advocate a chance in the system, the abolition of which would give renovated vigour to all the interests in the country. In every point of view he could not but express his opinion, that no subject could more deserve the attention of the Government, and that six weeks of the present Session would have been much better employed on this subject than in discussing the Irish Coercion Bill. The greatest measure of relief to the country that the Government could take up was the opening of a free trade in corn, which, instead of injuring, would really be productive of good to the landed proprietors, would increase the revenue, and generally benefit the whole community. He, therefore, could not understand how the noble Lord
 971
 Mr. Hume  said, it seemed to be admitted that the ecclesiastical duties of Bishops were interfered with by their sitting in the Legislature; but that injury would be less by their sitting only occasionally, as in the case of the Irish Bishops, than by their occupying seats permanently. The question then ought to be put—what was intended to be done? The Act of Union could not be taken to be in favour of the abolition of the ten Bishops, and at the same time construed against the abolition of them all. The Union with Scotland had never stood in the way of any improvement that was deemed necessary, and he hoped that there was no Irishman in the House who would urge the Irish Union as an impediment to improvement. The best thing for the Bishops was to place them in the best situation with their flocks, and his belief was, that the removing the Prelates from the House of Lords would do very much towards setting them right with those under their charge. If this were a good thing it were best to have it done at once; and why, if it were good, should it be postponed for years, as was now proposed? But the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Stanley) had said he was not prepared to propose for Ireland what he would not do for England. He was, however, quite ready for both. He would, therefore, only ask of the hon. Member to alter his Motion, and make the Bishops cease their attendance at once, or after the next term. It was, to be sure, only a small reform, but it was good; and if it were to be greater in future, there was nothing like a speedy beginning.
 Mr. Hume  was satisfied, that ere long the noble Lord would find that he had been deceived on that point.
 Mr. Hume , in reply to the observations of the hon. Baronet, that the Irish Bishops held their seats by virtue of the Act of Union, observed, that one Act of Parliament was good, and ought to be obeyed, until it was rescinded; and no longer. Two
 986
 Mr. Pease  did not defend the Corn-laws on principle, but he was satisfied that the present was not the proper time to alter them. He was connected with both manufacturers and agriculturists,
 975
 Mr. Fryer , after presenting a Petition from the inhabitants of Wolverhampton, praying for a repeal, or at least considerable alteration, of the Corn-laws, proceeded with his Motion for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend Act 9, Geo. 4th, c. 60, commonly called
 965 966 Hon. Member: 967 l. 968 969 s. s. s. d.
 Mr. Estcourt  admitted that, to a certain extent, there was such a feeling in the country as that described by the hon. member for Middlesex; but attributed it to the lessons which the people had received from most unworthy and unjustifiable instructors. With respect to the Amendment, the hon. mover of it was utterly mistaken in one respect, for he seemed to consider that the right of the Bishops to sit in the House of Peers was founded not on considerations of public good, but on personal considerations merely. That was a great error. The hon. Member proposed that the right should cease as those who at present enjoyed it dropped off. Now he (Mr. Estcourt) agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that if it was unfit that the Bishops should sit in the House of Peers, the best course would be, instead of allowing them to die off, as the hon. mover of the Amendment proposed, to sweep them all away at once. The hon. mover of the Amendment treated the subject as if it were one of mere personal gratification to the Bishops themselves. Now that was not the view taken of it by the Act of Union. The Act of Union provided that the Representatives of the Irish Episcopacy should sit in the House of Peers for the public benefit, not for their own personal gratification. If the Irish Bishops were to be excluded, there could be no reason why the Irish lay Lords should not be excluded also. Perhaps the hon. Member would include them in his proposition. They stood upon an equal footing. They all sat in the House of Peers, not for their own gratification, but for the public benefit.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to those prelates having to pay over a large sum annually without reference to their actual receipts.
 Mr. Gisborne  recommended the hon. member for Huntingdon to withdraw his Amendment. Of this he was quite sure;
 987
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  had listened with infinite satisfaction to the sentiments of the noble Lord, who, as the organ of his Majesty's Government, had declared that the representation of the Church of of England in the other House of Parliament was an indispensable part of the Constitution [cries  of No, no.
 Lord Althorp  observed that what he had said was, that he was persuaded the general feeling in the country was against any such change.
 Lord Althorp  would observe, that, from the arguments brought forward, this was rendered a more important question than any other connected with the Bill. It appeared certain to him that no one could argue this question upon any other principle than this—whether any spiritual Peers should be permitted to sit in Parliament at all; and to declare that they could not, would be a sweeping change in the Constitution. Every law was at present passed by the Lords spiritual and temporal and the Commons in Parliament assembled, and such had been the practice of the realm. The hon. Member had, however, brought forward this subject rather as a question of convenience than of principle; but he (Lord Althorp) could not agree to the propriety of this—for there was no one who would say, that it was improper for the Irish Bishops to sit in Parliament, if the English Bishops were permitted to retain their seats. But to effect this change would be to make an entire alteration in the Constitution; and he would ask whether it was either proper or possible that such an alteration could be made by an Amendment upon a clause in an Act of Parliament relative to the temporalities of the Church of Ireland? If
 985
 Lord Althorp  thought, that the question having already been fully discussed during the present Session of Parliament, it was not now necessary to enter into another discussion upon it, particularly as the hon. Gentleman must be aware that the ground of the former decision of the House upon the Motion of the hon. Gentleman's colleague was not a direct rejection of the Motion, but merely that at the present time it was not desirable to enter into it. He was ready to tell the hon. Gentleman, that his (Lord Althorp's) own opinion accorded with many of the statements which had been made by the hon. Gentleman, but he differed from him in the mode in which he proposed to deal with the subject. He (Lord Althorp) considering the quantity of business still before the House, and the advanced period of the Session, could not think it convenient to enter into a discussion of this question, and the more so because at present, as the hon. Gentleman well knew, there was no immediate necessity for legislative
 970
 Lord Althorp  never said, that he meant to make any alteration. He had merely admitted, in reply to the hon. member for Wolverhampton, that these laws were not the best possible.
 Lord Althorp  said, he intended to propose other alterations, but not this one, in the Reform Bill, in the next Session of Parliament.
 Lord Althorp  wished to abstain from making alterations in the Reform Act during the present Session, and until the working of the approaching Registration should be observed. The object of the clause to which the hon. and gallant Member objected was to afford a satisfactory proof of occupancy. He was aware that, at the last election, its effect had been to restrict the exercise of the elective franchise more than was intended or expected: but he thought that objection would not apply to the next Registration. It was partly owing to the mode of collecting rates, and partly in consequence of the carelessness or imperfect information of electors, that the constituency had been so limited under this clause; but neither of those causes were likely to operate
 963 l. bonâ fide
 Mr. Grote  said, that he had some time ago presented a petition upon the same subject from claimants in the City of London. He thought that a clearer case had never been established than by the petitioners. The claims arose from the confiscation and sequestration of the property and book-debts of British merchants by the Danish government, which sequestration was resorted to in consequence of a prior act of seizure of Danish property in British ports by the British Government. Immediately afterwards, the British merchants made a representation of their case to the British Government, and were told that their claims should be duly considered in the event of a treaty of peace being concluded. In 1814, however, when that treaty was made, so far from those claims being provided for, it actually legalized the confiscations of the property by the Danish government. The British Government had declared, that the original sentence of confiscation was wholly at variance with the law of nations, and had urged in 1809 as a reason for not then pressing on the Danish government the necessity of paying the claimants, that the treaty of peace had not been concluded; and yet when that treaty was signed, not a word was inserted even to recognise the claims. He thought the case one of great injustice. Up to this horn the claims had been suffered by successive governments to remain untried and unattended to. When he referred to what had been said by Mr. Goulburn in the year 1828, he thought the country had every reason to complain of the neglect and delay that had taken place. He must, in conclusion, express his regret that no one of his Majesty's Ministers was present to signify to the petitioners the intentions of the Government.
 Lord Morpeth  added his testimony to the reality and justice of the claim. He thought, however, that in the present state of the finances of the country, when the House considered the great claims that had been made upon it during the present Session, and the splendid exertions about to be made in the cause of benevolence and justice, the present Session was not a suitable time to press upon the Government any claim, however well founded. He joined in the regret expressed by the
 999
 Colonel Leith Hay  believed, that there never was a case brought before the House in which the merchants of this country had been treated with greater injustice than in the case of the petitioners. In his opinion, although the present Government was not identified with the transactions that occasioned the claims of the petitioners, it was their imperative duty specifically to perform the terms of the contract which had been entered into. There never was a class of his Majesty's subjects who had been treated in a more unworthy manner for the last twenty-five years, than the petitioners.
 Mr. Mark Philips,  as a commercial man, felt called upon to support the prayer of the petition. When he looked to the fact, that 1,200,000 l
 Mr. Warburton  said, that no lapse of time would justify Ministers in not granting to the petitioners that justice to which they were so deservedly entitled. At the end of the French war the emigrants from France obtained a compensation for their confiscated property, and surely the settled Government of England could not be less just than the Government of France. The Government had then more than ample funds in their hands for this purpose, and he thought if the debts of branches of the Royal Family were paid out of it, the petitioners' case was deservedly entitled to the consideration of his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Strickland  was old enough to recollect the circumstances which gave rise to this claim, and that on that occasion what was called the law of nations was stretched too far. it was considered by the Danish Government to have been an not of
 1000 l
 Mr. Cobbett  protested against the principle of the people of this country, or of any other, being called upon to make good the losses of merchants, whether arising from a state of war or otherwise. If, as had been stated, the money received from the sale of the Danish property went to the members of a certain family as droits of the Admiralty, he (Mr. Cobbett) would say, that such members of the Royal Family as had received the money should be called upon to refund it. He protested against any portion of it coming out of the hands of the people of this country.
 Mr. Tennyson  had understood, that in consequence of a long negotiation on the subject between the British and Danish Governments, the former became bound to indemnify the present claimants. The British Government was therefore called upon to satisfy those claims upon every principle of justice; and when the question came regularly before the House, he should feel himself called upon to vote for the liquidation of these long out-standing debts. He thought, however, that this discussion would be entirely useless unless his hon. friend, the member for the city of London, gave notice that he would move for a Select Committee, or bring forward some precise Motion on the subject, which had now been hanging over for several years. Public justice required that some inquiry into the subject should take place; and he was sure his Majesty's Government would give every opportunity for such a discussion.
 Mr. Pryme  hoped the hon. member for the city of London would bring forward some specific Motion on the subject.
 Mr. Marshall  said, it appeared to him this was not merely a case of great hardship, but of gross injustice; and he had yet to learn that any government could deny that these claims were just. He had heard no one as yet state that they were otherwise than just and if that were so, he felt confident such claims being just,
 1001
 Mr. Denison  thought these claims were just against the Government, against the country, and against the Parliament; and it was but an act of justice that they should be speedily satisfied.
 Mr. Parker  intimated that if Government did not, during the recess, take some step in this matter, it would be brought before Parliament in a substantive and specific form next Session. There were assets, out of which the money ought to have been paid—it was no fault of the petitioners that it had not been—and if something more decisive were not done, the subject must be renewed in that House.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  said, that it appeared to him that the learned Gentlemen practising in London, and supporters of the present Bill, had not looked to the manner in which business was transacted in the country. They were acquainted with the practice of the Metropolis, but knew little or nothing of that of country practitioners. Those who brought forward the Bill, therefore, did not take into account the additional expense and inconvenience that would be occasioned in the country by a plan such as the present. Equitable mortgages would be impeded by means of it, and he did not think it advisable to throw obstructions in the way of agriculturists obtaining temporary loans. Many persons would be unwilling to seek for loans, if the present privacy with which they could be effected should be destroyed by a registry. They would be apprehensive of their credit suffering, and refrain from accepting accommodation. He thought that the evils of a want of a
 1002
 Mr. Hodgson  seconded the Amendment, and said, that the subject would not suffer much by the delay of another year. He would, in one respect, prefer local to metropolitan registers; namely, that in case of riots or insurrection no buildings would be more likely to be attacked by the mob than that which contained the muniments of the nobility and gentry of England. It was easy for hon. Members to say, that the expense would be but small, but he had never heard any of those Gentlemen give an estimate of the expense. He was sure it would not be less than 1,000 l
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the first objection he had to the measure was the expense to which it would expose the public; but his principal objection to it was, that individuals would be put to great expense in transactions in which the sums concerned were very small. The Bill was opposed
 1003
 Lord Morpeth  merely rose to ask his hon. and learned friend opposite a question on the subject. This Bill rested upon authorities so high, and was supported by arguments many of which he was ready to admit were very strong, that his opposition to it would be in a great degree regulated by the answer he should receive from his learned friend to the question he was about to put. He begged to ask his learned friend, if he should persist in pressing this Bill through in the present Session, in which at such an advanced period it was hardly likely to pass, whether he would consent to except from its operation the counties of the northern circuit? In Yorkshire, they had a registry with which they were very well contented. It was true, that the other five counties had not a registry, but it was to be recollected that it was from this part of England that the most vehement objections had been made to this Bill, and that the most vehement opposition to it had proceeded. He hoped, therefore, that those counties would be excepted from the operation of the Bill, while it might be tried as an experiment in the other parts of England.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  most earnestly hoped that no experiments would be made in other parts of England, for the benefit of Yorkshire. If the three or four counties forming the northern circuit were excepted from the operation of the Bill, he hoped he should be allowed to put in a claim of exemption for the county of Lincoln, in which there was also a strong feeling of opposition to the measure. In many of the districts of that county, the opposition was very strong; and it was strongest among those classes who were best acquainted with its probable operation.
 Mr. Lynch  supported the Bill, as necessary for the protection of purchasers. The
 1004 caveat l l l 1005
 Mr. Tooke  was addressing the House. The hon. Member objected, at this period of the Session, to a Bill of so much importance being proceeded with. He conceived that it was impossible at this period, that a measure of this nature could be so matured as to lead to any beneficial results. By a postponement of the question until the next Session, some time would be afforded for a conversion of the opponents of the measure, by a further consideration of its merits, and to such a conversion he was perfectly open. He must, however, avail himself of this opportunity of disclaiming the animadversion which had been thrown upon that branch of the profession, to which he had the honour to belong, namely, that their opposition to the measure originated in interested motives. He denied on behalf of the profession, the justice of any such imputation, and he would most humbly throw into the scale his practical knowledge and experience in making this declaration. He would also suggest to the hon. and learned Member opposite, and to the House, that the measure was not one which pressed on them and further, that if good could be anticipated from it, that benefit would improve by delay, and he could not but think, that the House would act with an improvidence unworthy of it, if it came to a decision in favour of the principle of a Bill, which it was obvious, from what had transpired, was not yet sufficiently matured.
 Mr. Tennyson  objected to the Bill being proceeded in with precipitancy, and maintained, that the landed interest of the country ought to have time to know and understand its proposed provisions, before it should be permitted to pass into a law. The landed interest ought to be communicated with, and with this feeling, if the hon. and learned Member, who had moved its progress, would consent to its being now read a second time and sent into Committee, then to be reprinted and widely circulated through the country, and brought: forward in the next Session, he would support the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion; but if the Bill was to be persisted in during the present Session, he should oppose the second reading.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the simple question before the House was, whether the Bill should be now read a second time; and as he had looked with some anxiety as to what would be the result of a Reformed Parliament, he regarded
 1007
 Mr. Strickland  was opposed to the Bill. He had been upon the Select Committee up-stairs; and though he would admit, that there had been a majority in the Committee, yet a great diversity of opinion prevailed upon the provisions of this Bill. The county he had the honour to represent would be materially affected by the Bill. In that county, after much labour and expense, a registry had been completed, and all that labour and expense would be thrown away by the operation of the present Bill, and the system, which had been found to work well, would be made to give way to all the inconveniences which were presented in the measure now before the House. The present measure was full of inconveniences, and differed entirely from the system of registration which had been pursued, and found to work well in Yorkshire, in Middlesex, and in Dublin. The Bill contained the monstrous proposition, that all men's title-deeds were to be placed in London, for the inspection of every man
 1008
 Mr. Pease  was of opinion, that a Member should support the views of his constituents, and he was happy to be able to support the views of those who sent him to that House. He had presented petitions against the measure from all the towns of the southern division of Durham, and he could assert that nine-tenths of the freeholders of that division were against this measure. The evils to be guarded against were precarious and distant, the evils of the Bill itself were certain, and would immediately arise. The whole expense of the building would have to be paid by fees, the Clerks would have to be paid by fees; the expense would be great; and if one of these Clerks should make a mistake by taking the wrong John Brown out of ten thousand John Browns, and an estate of 10,000 l l l 1009
 The Attorney General  supported the Motion. The Bill was only to establish the general principle of registration, which they all seemed to agree in. Even the hon. member for Yorkshire liked registration in Yorkshire, and why should not that which was good in Yorkshire be extended over the whole kingdom? The present Motion only went to sanction the principle, and all the details might be discussed in the Committee.
 Mr. Duncombe  reminded the House that the general principle of the Bill, which the second reading would sanction, was the principle of metropolitan registration. The whole of his constituents were against the Bill, and he should give it his most decided opposition in that stage.
 Mr. Murray  supported the Motion. The principle of registration had been tried in Scotland for upwards of 100 years, and been found to give great satisfirction. They were not then to decide on the details, but only on the general principle, to which even the hon. member for Yorkshire was favourable.
 Mr. Cayley  was determined to oppose the Motion, because he knew that every one of his constituents considered him pledged to oppose it.
 Lord Sandon  had a petition to present against the Bill from Liverpool, most numerously and respectably signed. For his own part, he approved of the general principle of registration, but objected strongly to making it metropolitan. He did not like concentrating wealth and business in London; on the contrary, he thought it was better to diffuse them as equally as possible through the country. He should prefer a district registration. At the same time he should vote for the second reading, with a determination on his part to make it into a scheme for a district registration, in the Committee.
 Mr. Wason  was sure that it would not
 1010
 Mr. Halcombe  thought, that before the House conceded to the Separatists' privileges which were not enjoyed by his Majesty's subjects in general, it ought to know something of who and what they were. In the known character of the Quakers they had some guarantee, but the Separatists were wholly unknown to him. He would be obliged to the hon. Member to state who and what the Separatists were. Upon looking at the Bill, he could not see that any parliamentary ground was laid for dispensing with the taking of oaths in the case of the people called Separatists,
 Mr. Warburton  thought it a sufficient ground for passing the Bill, that the Member who introduced it, stated that the persons to whom it referred entertained conscientious objections to taking oaths.
 Mr. Murray  said, that he was acquainted with many Separatists, and knew them to be a respectable body of persons, who adhered literally to the precept in the Gospel, which recommended that men should not swear. The Bill, which was intended to allow these people to take their affirmation instead of an oath, would be a boon to society in general as well as to them, for at present their scruples prevented them from giving evidence in Courts of Justice, which might lead to the punishment of the guilty or the acquittal of the innocent.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the House ought to be in possession of better information respecting the people calling themselves Separatists before the Bill was passed. He had looked into the most recent works describing the religious sects in this country, and he could find nothing about them. If the House showed a disposition to grant privileges such as that proposed by the Bill to all persons who said they entertained scruples to take oaths, it would tend to encourage unnecessarily dissent from the Established Church.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the Bill contained a clause which enacted, that if any person should falsely pretend in a Court of Justice that he was a Separatist in order to avoid taking an oath, he should be liable to the penalties of perjury.
 Mr. Wallace  said, the object of the Bill throughout was to give the St. George's Steam Packet Company the power to increase their capital to an immense extent, though it was not yet subscribed. The Bill had for its chief object to obtain a monopoly of the transmission of goods and passengers across the Channel. He contended that the preamble, which stated them to be a Joint Stock Company, was not proved. They claimed to be an Irish Company, but on reference to the list of subscribers, he found the balance as nearly as possible between England and Ireland, for he found that eighty-seven of the subscribers belonged to Ireland and seventy-four to England. It could not, therefore, be called an Irish Company. It could not be said, that his objections were made with the view of protecting Scotch interests, for he found that the English subscribers belonged chiefly to the western coast, namely, from Cornwall round to Liverpool—so that it was very natural that the inhabitants on that coast, including Wales, would not offer any objections to the Bill. The Company claimed the power of chartering all other vessels that professed to go on the same line as their vessels, and therefore a monopoly would be established, by which they might charge what prices they pleased. A more predetermined system of monopoly was never heard of. It was a frequent ground of complaint against encouraging the accumulation of large masses of wealth by any one Company; but the present Bill would have the effect of enabling the Company to accumulate very great wealth, as it would enable them
 995 l l
 The Earl of Ormelie  considered that, although the Bill only asked for an increase of 30,000 l pro tanto
 Mr. Stanley  said, that the object of the Bill certainly was to tax the Church for the purposes of religion, and it could not be objected that the income of a clergyman should be augmented though the tithes were in the hands of a layman.
 Mr. Baldwin  also felt it his duty to oppose the third reading of this Bill, because it would have the effect of completely putting down all sailing vessels trading between England and Ireland.
 Major Beauclerk  supported the Amendment. Every one would see, that the consequence of giving a monopoly to this Company would be, that they would run down all smaller Companies; and it appeared to him extraordinary, that this Bill should now be pressed forward, at a lime when the House was anxious to do away with all monopolies. He therefore, hoped that hon. Members who were opposing monopolies would not give their sanction to this Bill.
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  objected to the Bill as giving to the Company a much greater capital, and consequently, reducing the scope for competition, by which alone the public could be benefited. From Water-ford and other places, petitions had been presented against the Bill, which objected to it as a whole, as well as to certain clauses which had been expunged.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  declared that the Bill came before the Committee originally in the most exceptionable form, such as must have convinced any man of the motives of the promoters. The hon. Member stated the advantages derived by competition, since the original establishment of steam-packets between Liverpool, Bristol, Dublin, Cork, and other places in that Channel. It was stated, he said, that the Bill was intended to facilitate commerce; but this could not be the case when the effect of the monopolies already existing was to keep the freight of Irish produce to this country, of pigs in particular, as high as 30 s Sandon:
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he had before, when the principle of the Bill was under discussion, objected to the clergy alone being taxed for the rest of the community, but that point being carried against his opinion, it was still but just that when by law the lay impropriator was bound to provide for the service of the Church, that the funds of the clergy should not be taxed for what another was legally bound to pay. He hoped the noble Lord was now prepared to assent to the proposition which he had before promised to take into consideration—namely, the allowing a summary remedy by petition against the lay impropriator who was bound by the express conditions of the grant or patent under which he held the tithes to maintain an officiating clergyman. That mode of summary relief had been recommended by the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Inquiry, as was the case in respect of charitable donations, and under the 22nd Clause of the Bill then under consideration, the same remedy by petition was given against the clergy for enforcing payment of the tax. He might here be permitted to mention some cases of lay impropriators deriving large incomes from tithes, and contributing little or nothing to the support of the Church. In Doneraile, in the county of Cork, 1,000 l l l l l l s
 Mr. Shaw : Such cases were of frequent occurrence in Ireland, as the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Inquiry reported. He hoped that the noble Lord would assent to his proposal, and introduce a clause providing a summary remedy.
 Mr. Shaw : he would willingly prepare the clause and submit it to the noble Lord.
 Mr. Barron  thought that no man, after reading the Resolutions of the Company itself, could doubt that their object was monopoly, and that they would, as a matter of course, do away with all minor companies, by which the public would be exceedingly injured; and not merely the public, but all the great outports of the United Kingdom; and that this company would charge whatever price they pleased. He should, therefore, support the Amendment.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that one unjustifiable proposition was embodied in this Bill—that of taxing the clergy, even though the lay impropriator was the person to derive advantage.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said that, if the lay impropriator received tithes without doing duty in return, the clergy received large sums for doing next to nothing.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  asked what monopoly the Bill would give which was not enjoyed by the Company already? As to the bye-laws of the Company, they would not be at all affected by the passing or rejection of the Bill, the provisions of which merely gave the Company the power of
 996
 Dr. Lushington  said, there were very few such cases in England; and begged to know from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw) whether they were of frequent occurrence in Ireland—as, if so, he thought the proposition of the hon. Member was a very reasonable one?
 Mr. Jervis  said, the House should protect the public, and take care the public should have as cheap and expeditious a conveyance from one part of the country to another as possible. It had been said that what the Company were seeking to do by this Bill they could do without; but
 997
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that the lay impropriators were bound by law to contribute towards the maintenance of the Church, for they derived all the profit from the tithes; and if it were even true, which he denied, that the clergy did little in return for their incomes, it was unquestionable that the lay impropriators did nothing towards the service of religion in the parishes from whence they derived their incomes. There could not be a more zealous or exemplary body of men than the Irish clergy.
 Sir Robert Inglis  urged the necessity of the lay impropriators contributing, as by law they were bound to do, to the maintenance of the Church and the support of the officiating clergy.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should feel obliged to the hon. Gentleman for preparing such a clause. He would not object to its introduction.
 Lord Sandon,  in reply, hoped the House would not be led away by the vague cry of monopoly, which in no way whatever had been proved as to this Bill. The Bill had been subjected to the adverse investigation of a scrutinizing Committee for many days; and the Company did not claim a limited liability. On the contrary, every proprietor would be liable to the whole amount of his property.
 Lord Sandon,  in moving the third reading of the St. George's Steam Packet Company's Bill, stated, that in the original Bill there were some clauses to which objections had been made, as they gave a
 994
 Colonel Evans  presented a Petition from the inhabitant householders and other persons of the parish of St. Ann, Westminster, for the Repeal of the House and Window Taxes. Seeing a Member of his Majesty's Government present, he would state his conviction, that if the House did not immediately pass a measure for the repeal of these obnoxious taxes, which fell so heavily on the great mass of the industrious inhabitants of the metropolis, the want of confidence, and the breach between the people and their representatives, would become as great as it was now supposed to be between two branches of the Legislature. The petition, he believed, represented the sentiments not only of the parish from which it came, but of the whole population of London. He had the highest authority for saying the Assessed-
 1020
 Colonel Evans  found the name of the noble Lord in several lists.
 Colonel Evans : Whatever might be the noble Lord's opinion, the taxes always would be obnoxious while the industrious part of the metropolis groaned under the oppression of their inequality. For instance, Northumberland-house was rated at 1,500 l l s d s d l l l l Althorp l l l s 1021 s l l l l l l l l l l l 1022 l l l l
 An Hon. Member , who lived in the county, said, that the rating of 800 l l
 Mr. Cooper  said, he was of Tory principles, and he could assure the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, that no alarm need be apprehended of the Tories taking office under a pledge to reduce taxation in a way injurious to the public revenue.
 Colonel Evans  submitted that the reductions in the army and navy were amply sufficient to admit of the giving up of these taxes. With respect to the surcharges, the mere per-centage in the additional charges was 5,000 l
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  did not see the question in the same point of view as many other Members did; with him it appeared to be certain, that as long as the present Ministers remained in office, there was no hope for relief from taxation. The Government had come in upon the cry of Reform, and had not redeemed a single pledge they had previously made. He defied any hon. Member to show an instance to the contrary. The objection to the Duke of Wellington was, that he would not give up to popular opinion; the objection to the present Ministry was, that they conceded nothing to popular opinion; and they should always have his opposition.
 Mr. Robinson  did not thing that any Government could effect a sufficient deduction in the taxes so as to be falt by the
 1024
 Mr. Philip Howard  would not follow the hon. Member at any length, and still less allude, as the last speaker had done, to the writings of that hon. Member; but he must say, that Annual Parliaments would represent the passions rather than the opinions of the people; under such a system canvassing would never cease, and enmities never subside; the ceaseless confusion ensuing therefrom would dry up the sources of labour, check industry, and consequently prove to be highly injurious to the welfare and interests of the working classes. Those who expatiated on the merits of the government of the United States should recollect, that in that country a portion of the population were actually in a state of bondage, and groaning under the yoke of slavery, whilst in England the peasant as well as the prince enjoyed the benefit of equal law.
 Mr. Cobbett , after presenting a variety of other petitions stated, that he had also to present a petition which he was sure the House would pay great attention to, and he was sure that there was not one man in the kingdom who did not remember the name of Major Cartwright with blushes. Major Cartwright had left behind a name which a great number of persons were resolved should be always held in respect, and the petition was from the Cartwright Club. It was signed by twenty persons, and prayed for Universal Suffrage and Annual Parliaments. They had found the Reform Act
 1025 vivâ voce
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the noble Lord might have heard it stated by the hon. member for Durham that one-third of the inhabitants of that town were surcharged. The House would also recollect the case of the Duke of Newcastle. His Grace was rated at no more than 800 l l
 Sir Harry Verney  expressed the opinion that the constant complaints, as now represented, respecting the distresses of the
 1026
 Lord Althorp  said, he had attended in consequence of the notice he had received from the hon. and gallant Colonel of his
 1023
 Lord Althorp : I believe not—the gallant Officer must be mistaken.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had voted against them, but not advocated the repeal of these taxes.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the clause remained in its present state, the tenant would have to purchase the amount of what he himself had laid out. The Bishops, in calculating the renewals, never took
 1067
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the Bill, as it stood, gave that power to them substantively, and gave beside a bonus to the tenants. The hon. and learned Gentleman ought to understand the question, but he appeared to have taken a very erroncous view of it. In the Bishops' sees, where the tenant wished to purchase the perpetuity, the Commissioners were to estimate it at the market value, and the tenant was to be allowed a bonus of four per cent. Should he, however, be dissatisfied with the value set upon it by the Commissioners, the tenant was to have the power of having the matter settled by arbitrators, the costs of the arbitration to be paid by the Commissioners in the event of its turning out that they had estimated it at too high a value.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not met the case at all. In calculating the fines the Bishops never took into account the value of the house which the tenant had built, whereas the Commissioners, in estimating the value of the perpetuity at the marketable price, would be bound to do so. He would give an instance—a gentleman, the high Sheriff of the county Fermanagh, held a tract of country under a Bishop's lease—he had built a handsome house, and planted his demesne, and yet the Bishop never raised the fine. Now the gentleman to whom he alluded could not have the perpetuity of this farm without again paying for the improvements which he himself had made.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that in legislating, the House could hardly assume that landlords, in parting with the perpetuity in their property, would not take into account the value of the improvements made upon it. The Bill says, make your bargain now, and the Bishops hereafter will be precluded from augmenting the amount to be paid.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, he could not conceive how the noble Lord could contend that the tenants did not receive very considerable benefits under the clause as it stood. The noble Lord must recollect, that they need not purchase unless they pleased, and might renew with the Commissioners as before. They had, therefore, nothing to complain of.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that if a tenant were induced to lay out his money on Bishops' leases, some protection ought to be afforded him. He would recommend a middle course, such as that adopted by the University of Cambridge. Where property held under them was improved, they did not charge tithes for it for the first fourteen years.
 Mr. O'Connell : The hon. and learned Gentleman has stated, that his principal objection to the Amendment was that it would be impracticable. Now, what the Amendment proposed was precisely what
 1070
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that this clause was one of those which had been objected to on the score of principle. When they came to the 110th Clause (a postponed one), he would show, that the effect of it would be beneficial to the people of Ireland and to the support of the Protestant religion. He knew, that with respect to the 147th clause, in which the disposal of a sum of money was concerned, that there existed a great difference of opinion on both sides of the House, and that there were some of his own friends who objected to it, as they considered that it involved an alienation of Church property. The construction he put upon the tendency of the clause was very different, for he did not see, that it involved in any way the alienation of that property. What was  bona fide l l 1074 Cries of" No, no." O'Connell: 1075
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was not disappointed. The right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the Committee was the same person who, during the progress of the Coercive Bill, came forward and stated, that the Government were about to establish a great principle in the Church Temporalities' Bill,—that they were going to open to the people of Ireland, for the first time, the prospect of being relieved from one of the heavy burthens which oppressed them, physically and morally, by establishing the great principle that the property of the Church was at the disposal of Parliament. When they asked for the Coercion Bill they said, that they meant to introduce another measure with respect to the Church, which would make the recurrence of disturbances impossible, by removing their causes,—they came to the Reformed Parliament, to the Representatives of the people of England, and said: "We ask you for unconstitutional measures, but at the same time be convinced, that we are about to establish a great and important principle of relief, and we will stand or fall by both measures." Who talked of collision then?—who talked then of shrinking? The right hon. Gentleman said, the consequence of the rejection of the Bill would be to be deplored. They might be by the right hon. Gentleman, but they would not by the country. Many a time when, during the discussion on the Coercion Bill, he taunted the hon. Members opposite with "lip service," with respect to Ireland, the reply he received was: "We are acting harshly now, it is true, but we are about to establish a great principle, which will meet the most anxious wishes of the Irish people." The right hon. Gentleman did not perhaps say, but many others on this side of the House did: "We are going to establish a principle, the result of which will be, that the people of Ireland shall not be taxed for the support of a Church to which they do not belong." Many hon. Members went even further than that, and said, that it was an absurdity to maintain a church, without a flock. Where were those hon. Members now? Would they vote with the right hon. Gentleman? Would they allow the Irish Members to go hack to Ireland, and state that such had been the conduct of the House of Commons? No, he would not anticipate that
 1076 1077 l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  expressed his surprise at the tone of indignation, real or assumed, in which the hon. member for Dublin had addressed the Committee. The hon. Member stated, that Government had pledged themselves to carry two measures, one for the restoration of tranquillity in Ireland, and the other for the reform of the Irish Church. The hon. Member always contended that the two measures must be considered in the nature of a compromise, one against the other, and ought, therefore, to proceed  pari passu 1078 "No, none at all." No." 1079 l l l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that what he had stated on the subject of the Vestry-cess was, that he did not know what the Go-
 1080
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the hon. and learned Member was more conversant with the intentions of Government upon that subject than any one else could be. The hon. and learned Member was perfectly aware that the clause had been postponed in order that his own opinion, as a lawyer might be taken upon it, and he (Mr. Stanley) had no doubt that the hon. and learned Member would not now deny that he had been for some days in the fullest consultation with the Government as to the manner in which the clause should be framed.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech which had been cheered, was that in which he said that he (Mr. O'Connell) had been "in the fullest consultation with the Government." He (Mr. O'Connell) did not deny, that he had been in consultation with them; but would the right hon. Secretary say, that anything definite had been agreed on? He (Mr. O'Connell) denied that anything had been agreed on upon that subject; but with regard to the distribution of the surplus revenues of the Church, he would say than that part of the Bill was definitively agreed on.
 Mr. Halcombe  thought great injustice would be done if the clause were permitted to remain as it then stood.
 Mr. O' Connell  said, he knew an instance
 1071 l l l
 Mr. Stanley  rose to vindicate, not himself, but the Government, from a charge which had been brought against them by the hon. Member. The hon. Member had stated, that the Government had introduced principles into the Bill to which they had pledged themselves, and which they afterwards abandoned. The hon. and learned member for Leeds had very truly stated, that the alienation of the property of the Church formed no part of the principle of the Bill. That had been also stated by himself, and more distinctly stated by his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he thought it important, not to the principles of the Bill, but to the character of the Government, that the House and the country should be set right upon the subject. He would now read what the noble Lord had stated on introducing the measure. After slating what the plan of his Majesty's Ministers was, he proceeded: 'Now, I apprehend, that however great the differences of opinion may be as to the right of Parliament to apply the property of the Church to the purposes
 1086 * * †Hansard, (third series) xv. p. 576. 1087
 Dr. Lushinglon  said, that during his whole parliamentary experience he had never heard a discussion in which the decency of parliamentary language, or the courtesy of public life had been so much departed from. Neither had he ever heard a discussion in which the grossest and basest motives and intentions were more plainly attributed to a Government. He would say more; he had never heard such language used on an occasion where it was so totally destitute of foundation. An hon. Member had explained, that the surplus arising from Bishops' leases was not. considered part of the Church property; and that, therefore, the question as to the alienation of Ecclesiastical property had not been touched. He (Dr. Lushington) had always been, and still continued, of opinion, that the surplus revenues of the Church, after paying the clergy, and other Church purposes, ought to be appropriated to the promotion of education. Nothing would deter him from stating that these were the principles which he held on this subject. Was it worth while, then, to enunciate a theoretical proposition, when, by the very terms of the Bill itself, they were stripped of the power of carrying that proposition into effect. And for what reason, he should like to know, were they bound to conciliate one part of Ireland at the cost of irritating another? He, at least, saw no just ground for giving this useless and unnecessary insult to the Protestants of Ireland. Then what would be its effect elsewhere? There might be some people in that House desirous of calling in the power of the people to annihilate the authority of another Assembly. When he saw the delight with which any proposition was hailed that seemed to threaten such an event, he must say, that he did not observe that fear of a collision which any man desirous of avoiding it would wish to sec, and which could not happen without such consequences as all men of moderation and prudence must desire to avoid. When there was any principle concerned, that by its concession
 1088
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that his approbation of the principle of this Bill had been often quoted against him. What was that approbation? He would tell the House, from the same authority which had been quoted against him, what he had said: "He greatly approved of this Bill, because it was clear that it recognized a principle which would be applicable to all other property of the same description." He had then also stated "that he supported the Bill because it recognised the right of the Government to look into the state of ecclesiastical property hereafter." * * 1089
 Mr. Abercrombie  said, that the object of the Amendment was, to transfer a large portion of that which was now the property of the Church to a class of persons who had no legal right to it. He could not reconcile the statement of the hon. member for Dublin that night with what he said on a former occasion. That hon. and learned Member said, some nights since, that a person travelling through Ireland could not but know church lands from others, they were so little improved. He thought the clause, as it stood, unobjectionable, and he should, therefore, oppose the Amendment.
 Sir Robert Ferguson , as a Member from the north of Ireland, and a holder of Bishops' lands, rose to make a few observations. In that part of the country with which he was connected, he could state, of his own knowledge, that it was not the practice of the Bishops, in calculating their fines, to take into account the value of the houses built upon the land, and he understood the same practice prevailed in other places—as in Armagh. In the counties of Armagh, Tyrone, and Derry, the gentry, in a great many instances, built houses and planted demesnes on Bishops' lands, and no reference whatever was had to the value of those improvements in calculating the fines. All that was sought by the Amendment was, that if such a practice could be established, to let the tenants have the benefit of it.
 Mr. O'Connell : May I ask where I am irregular?
 Mr. O'Connell  would bow to the Chairman.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  wished to have the principle established and the details might be altered; but the withdrawal of the clause would do away with the principle.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  wished the House to be aware that the clause did not open the question whether the State had or had not a right to deal with Church property. No such question was at issue before the House. If it were he might be obliged to vote one way, and his right hon. friend another. That was not the question at issue, and those who voted for the omission of the clause might adhere to and act upon their opinion, that Parliament might interfere with Church property without any inconsistency whatever. The Government thought that the property was different from any other description of Church property referred to in the clause, and might be separated from it; but that idea had been discountenanced by both sides of the House. The question then was whether the property was not to be dealt with as other Church property, and to be placed in the same fund, and devoted to the same purpose, as other Church property? He again repeated, that the abstract question of the right of Parliament to deal with Church property was not before the Committee.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson , in moving, pursuant to notice, for a Select Committee to consider the Report of the Committee on the Warwick Election Petition, said, that he would not trespass at any length upon the time of the House at that late hour, but should content himself with a brief statement of facts. On the 20th of February, a petition was presented from certain electors of the borough of Warwick against the return of Sir Charles Greville, on the ground of corruption, bribery, and the illegal and unconstitutional interference of the Earl of Warwick in the election. Immediately afterwards a counter petition was presented against Mr. Bolton King, the present sitting Member. A Committee was appointed in May to investigate the allegations of bribery and corruption against the agents of Sir Charles Greville, and the alleged illegal interference of the Earl of Warwick on his behalf. As regarded the case of Mr. Bolton King, there was no charge of unconstitutional interference, the petition against his return being confined to allegations of bribery. The Committee sat, and proof was given that twenty-two voters had been bribed by Sir Charles Greville's agents. Upon this the counsel of Sir Charles Greville gave up the case, and the Committee had no means of continuing the inquiry, there being no party to defray the heavy expenses inseparable from it. The investigation was therefore closed; but the Committee thought they had had sufficient evidence submitted to them to enable them to make a special Report. He was now to ask the permission of the House to institute a further inquiry into the subject. It wag
 1103 l
 Lord Molyneux  seconded the Motion.
 Sir John Hanmer  opposed the Motion, and gave it as his opinion, that the allegations contained in the Report of the Committee were not borne out by the evidence. He deprecated the institution of the proposed inquiry, merely on the ground of so few as twenty cases of bribery, and expressed a hope that Parliament would not, at the present late period of the Session, enter into such a discussion.
 Mr. Ellice  rose to suggest to his hon. friend (Sir Ronald Ferguson) the introduction of an Amendment into his Motion, which he thought was essentially necessary for the purpose of carrying the objects, which he had in view, into effect. One of the grounds upon which his hon. friend moved for this Committee was, that the late Committee had been stopped in its inquiries into the proceedings that had taken place at the late election for Warwick. Now it did not appear, from the terms in which his hon. friend's Motion was worded, that the Committee which he proposed to appoint would have the power to inquire into those proceedings. He would, therefore, suggest, that the Motion should be altered to this effect:—"That a Select Committee be appointed to make further inquiry into the proceedings that took place at the last election for the city of Warwick, and to consider and report what further means should be adopted to prevent bribery, treating, &c., in that borough." The present Motion was proposed
 1104
 Mr. Langdale  maintained, that the statements contained in the Report of the Committee were fully borne out by the evidence that had been laid before them, and that the House would lose its character with the country if it did not institute the proposed inquiry.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  suggested, that the precedent in the Stafford case should be followed in this.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, if they should go into the inquiry, it would be found that Warwick was a place in which bribery had been little known. He was surprised at the Report of the Committee, looking at the evidence which had been laid before them, and he was further surprised that, instead of calling Sir Charles Greville's banker before them to give evidence, they had called Lord Warwick's banker for that purpose. That was a new way to elicit evidence. It was extremely hard thus to call in a third party, a banker, and make him produce the private accounts of an individual banking with him, in order to bring home a charge of bribery to another person. If he were placed in such a situation, he would rather go to Newgate than give evidence so required from him.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, Sir Charles Greville, he believed, had no banker in Warwick. He was ready to adopt the Amendment of his hon. friend.
 Mr. Murray  said, that the carrying of such an Amendment would tend to cast an unjust reflection on the Members of the late Committee, who had fearlessly discharged their duty; and that the only effect of it would be to cloak the bribery that had taken place.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  felt the importance of coming to a decision that night, but begged a hearing for his hon. friend the member for Mayo, who had the great parliamentary merit of making short speeches.
 Colonel Davies  denied, that he could, with any show of reason, be accused of inconsistency. The Motion to which the noble Lord referred in support of his charge, was made by him (Colonel Davies) not for the sake of the Government, but for the sake of that country which was so deeply interested in the question.
 Colonel Davies  protested against the
 1092
 Mr. Baldwin  supported the clause us it originally stood. He denied that the clause went to appropriate Church property; all that it appropriated was the right of the reversion to the property at present held on lease.
 Lord John Russell  confessed he turned with gratification from the frothy de-
 1095 1096
 Lord Oxmantown  declared that, with the exception of one hon. Member, he had had no communication with any other on the subject of his Amendment.
 Lord Oxmantown  said, he thought the clause could be considerably improved by the insertion of new words; and for that purpose he had prepared an Amendment which he begged leave to submit to the Committee. The clause, in its present shape would render the Bill inoperative. Where the tenant had made valuable improvements, the Bishops in Ireland, practically speaking, in regulating the fines on renewals, never took those improvements into their calculation. Unless the clause were amended, the object of the preamble of the Bill could not be carried into effect; and so far from a bonus being held out to the tenants, the value of their property would be deteriorated—and the tenants, in place of being bettered in their condition, would be worse off than before. The noble Lord moved an Amendment to the effect that the Commissioners should be directed, in estimating the purchase-money, to calculate it upon the same principle as that hitherto adopted by the several Archbishops and Bishops in Ireland.
 Colonel Perceval  said, he was delighted to hear justice done to the conduct of the Bishops of Ireland by the hon. and learned Gentleman who bad just sat down. Although he (Colonel Perceval) was a tenant under a Bishop, he was not permanently interested in the fate of the Amendment one way or other, inasmuch as the property he held was not built upon. In the county of Armagh, a gentleman, with whom he was acquainted, laid out 10,000 l
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, appeared to have forgotten that the tenant had always one check, if not two, upon the Bishop. If the Bishop should run his life against the lease, and let the property to other tenants, he was obliged to reserve half the amount for his successor. Another check was, that the Bishop, when he was appointed, was generally at that period of life when it was scarcely worth his while to run his life against the lease. With regard to the power conferred by the clause upon the Commissioners, he thought it most unjust. Supposing one tenant in a townland had built upon and improved his farm, and that another had not, he who had laid out his money would have to pay
 1069 toties quoties s
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was some comfort to inferior minds to find that the most splendid talents were not sufficient to enable sophistry to beguile a single man who attended to facts. How any man with even a tithe of the understanding possessed by the hon. Member who spoke last could expect to lead the House, having the clause before them, to the interpretation which he put upon it, it was difficult to imagine? What said the clause? "And the surplus of the said monies accruing to the credit of the said Commissioners shall be applied to such purposes as Parliament shall hereafter appoint and direct." Now, if that clause did not give Parliament a control over Church property, why was it not allowed to remain? He remembered that when the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), whom he was sorry not to see in his place brought forward this measure, and erected his standard of popularity upon it, he calculated that the sum which it would place at the disposal of a future Parliament would be no less than 3,000,000 l 1085
 Mr. Dominick Browne  rose, but his voice was drowned in the cries of "Question."
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, it was now proposed that they should of a sudden come to a decision quite opposed to that which they had entertained for the last three or four months. It always gave him great pain to differ from his Majesty's Ministers, but he was compelled to do so in the present instance. He would rather have a Tory Administration—would rather see the present Ministry break up—would rather see a dissolution of Parliament, than that
 1098
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, it was extremely hard of Ministers, after having deluded the House for two months, now to come down and reject the only two lines which were worth anything in the whole 152 clauses of the Bill. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had described this as well as other Bills, as intended for the security of the Protestants of Ireland. He would ask, then, what Bill was there for the people of Ireland? The House had better be at once dissolved if they were to go on in this way, and only agree to what might meet the concurrence of the House of Lords. The hon. and gallant Colonel (Colonel Davies) was mistaken in saying that Ministers had degraded themselves that night—they had only added to the measure of their degradation. He hoped the House would now reject the Bill altogether, and it should certainly have his decided opposition.
 Mr. Shaw  admitted to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) that the change by which the Commissioners would be obliged to renew with the tenants in case the tenants did not desire to purchase, must be considered a great improvement, compared with the condition in which they would have been placed by the clause as it originally stood. That would have forced them to purchase upon terms however dis-
 1066
 Mr. Shaw , in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Lushington) said, that the learned Gentleman had stated, with tolerable accuracy, the course of dealing between the Bishops and their tenants in Ireland. The Bishops dealt with them on the fairest and most liberal terms, not raising their rent from any casual rise even as regarded the beneficial money interest which tenants might enjoy under them—but, in no instance were they in the habit of charging the tenant for ornamental improvements, or the erection of buildings on their property. It was but reasonable, then, that the same rule should be observed by the Commissioners, in respect of the purchase of the perpetuity, as had been observed by the Bishop in respect of the renewal of the lease—otherwise the tenant who had improved would be in worse circumstances than the one who had neglected his property. The person who had expended capital upon the faith of the Bishop's not taking advantage of the improvement it produced, would have to pay over again, in the way of purchase, to the Commissioners for the increased value of the property which his own expenditure had created, while the very negligence and carelessness of his neighbour in having allowed his property to deteriorate, would, in the same proportion, lessen the amount of his purchase money—and this without the Commissioners, in the performance of their public duty, having the power to take these circumstances, and the former practice, which had universally prevailed, into account, unless such an Amendment as was now proposed vested in them that discretion. He would remind the right hon. Gentleman, too, that the principle he (Mr. Shaw) was contending for was recognized in the new provision of the Bill, which prevented the Commissioners charging for past improvements in the case of their receiving
 1072
 Mr. Grote , in rising to offer a few observations to the House, felt it his duty, in the first place, to declare that his recollection of what had fallen from Ministers when this Bill was first brought forward, entirely coincided with their statement of what then transpired, and it was not, therefore, on that point that he should argue against the omission of this clause. He did entertain an objection to the Bill in the first instance, because it did not, in his opinion, go the length that the people expected it would go towards rectifying that great ecclesiastical enormity of Europe—the Irish Church. Still he felt anxious to support it, being unwilling to signalize its defects, knowing, as he did, the difficulties that Ministers would have to contend with in getting it passed into a law; but when he found that, defective as it was, it was to be rendered still more defective by being robbed of one of its chiefest members—of the only part which rendered it a decided benefit to the country—he felt himself bound to give it his most strenuous opposition, as far as regarded the withdrawal of the clause in question. It was supposed that this alter-
 1094
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (the Secretary for the Colonies) had not answered the objections urged by the noble Lord. The noble Lord had stated, that the Bill, as it stood, would prevent the tenant from purchasing the perpetuity, inasmuch as it would be better for him to remain under the Bishop. Supposing the tenant had laid out 10,000 l
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, he held a statement in his hand, signed by Messrs. Robinson and Rose, confirming the view taken by the hon. and learned Member.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that much had been thrown out as to its being an unconstitutional proceeding to attempt to frighten the House of Lords, but he felt confident that it was equally unconstitutional to attempt to terrify the House of Commons with threats of what might be done in the Lords. The avowal of the right hon. Secretary was distinctly this, that part of the produce of the Church lands was to be directed to public purposes, or any other objects to which Parliament should deem fit to appropriate that property. This was the basis of their measure, and he called on the House to stand by this measure. The people would stand by them if they were not cowards. But the people would never stand by a vacillating Ministry, whose every measure displayed their incapacity, and tended to betray the country into a state of unexampled uncertainty as to what was or was not to be conceded to the public voice—the people of the united empire.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that as this was a Bill founded upon the custom of the country, he could see no just reason why that custom should not govern them in the present clause as in the others. It was distinctly stated, that the custom for many centuries was, that the Bishops were not in the habit of taking into consideration, when calculating their fines, the value of the improvements made by the tenants. He thought that that practice ought not to be disturbed. He should therefore vote for the Amendment.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, that the Bishops acted differently in different dioceses.
 Mr. Hardy  contended that the same principle which the clause would establish as to Church property taking a portion of it because its value was enhanced by an Act of the Legislature, might with equal justice be applied to private property, such as canals, docks, and commons when inclosed. If the hon. member for Middlesex was correct, his Majesty's Ministers were in a state of extreme jeopardy; for if they retained the clause they were in great jeopardy from the House of Lords, and if they expunged it they were in danger from six out of every seven men whom they might meet out of that House.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in this discussion there was room more for sorrow and regret, than for anger; for never was a Government reduced to a juncture such as his Majesty s Government had that night reduced themselves to. He would put it to the noble Lord, what security the House or the country had that the Government meant to carry that or any other Bill which they might introduce other than that which he had given, that they should stand by the principles of the present Bill? The noble Lord had given his pledge that the Government would stand or fall by that Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the present clause was not one of the principles of the Bill. But what he would ask, was to be considered the principles of the Bill, but those provisions which were laid down by the Government as part of the measure? These provisions, as stated by the noble Lord, the Government were bound—were pledged as men of honour—to maintain; or they were bound,
 1081 l l l 1082 1083
 Mr. Methuen  regretted very much to hear so unconstitutional a doctrine as that which had been laid down by the noble Lord, and others of the Ministry, as to the conduct to be pursued by that House in anticipation of a collision with the House of Lords. His opinion entirely clashed with that of the noble Lord, and he called on the House of Commons, in the name of the people of England, to do their duty fearlessly. The next question was, were the people of England to succumb to the House of Lords? He was bound, as an honest man, to say that no power on earth should have induced him to vote for the Coercive Measure, had it not been his opinion that his Majesty's Ministers would
 1097
 Mr. Bernal  spoke to order. He put it to the learned Gentleman whether he would persist in these irregular observations.
 Mr. Bernal : In referring to the alleged pledges of any hon. Member out of doors, which have no reference whatever to the measure before the Committee.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that if the learned Gentleman had alluded to him as having broken pledges to his constituents, he could only tell him, that he broached an assertion totally without foundation. He would not use harsher terms of denial, but would simply and explicitly deny, that he had given any such pledges to his constituents as the hon. Gentleman had insinuated.
 Dr. Lushington  said, the question was certainly a complicated one, for it appeared from the statement of the hon. Gentleman, the member for Wicklow (Mr. J. Grattan), that no uniform practice prevailed. It appeared, however, that it was the common practice for Bishops to renew, from year to year, for twenty-one years. It was clear that the Bishop, if he pleased, had a right to let the lease run out. He had a complete right and title, supposing he thought it for his benefit, to run his life against the lease and let the property as he pleased. It was undoubtedly his right, at all events, to increase the fine if he deemed fit. What might be the practice of individual Bishops in Ireland, he (Dr. Lushington) could not say, but if the Bishops relaxed their power as stated, they conferred a benefit upon the tenant to which he had no legal right. It had been stated by some hon. Members, that it was not the practice for the Bishops, in calculating their fines, to take into account the marketable value of the lands. As he (Dr. Lushington) had had occasion, in the course of these debates, to make several speeches against the hon. member for Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), and the hon. member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), he would now make a speech for them, and say, that such conduct was most liberal on the parts of the heads of the Church in Ireland. It appeared to him, that the Amendment would render the clause impracticable. As the clause stood the value the Commissioners were to set upon the perpetuity, was after the expiration of twenty years. Taking, therefore, into account the decay to which buildings must be subject, the value of such tenements after twenty years must be very little indeed.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought the question depended very much upon the fact, whether the custom of the Bishops in renewing was universal or not; and he should be glad to hear, more particularly, how the matter stood from his hon. friend, Mr. Shaw.
 Mr. Gisborne  observed, that it was natural that Irish Members should wish to be heard on such a subject; but he must say a few words, and he thought that there were many English Members in the same situation with himself. Many of them had voted for the Irish Coercion Bill—he had for every clause of it, upon the faith that the Government would pass the present Bill in the form in which it was first announced. He did not deny, that the abolition of the Church-cess was a relief to Ireland; but then this clause also was a most important feature in the Bill. He looked to it without regard to Ministerial explanations; and he wished to ask the Ministry whether they had any more prospect of carrying it
 1091
 Mr. Macaulay  was not aware, when he entered the House, of the course which Government meant to pursue upon this occasion, but he fully approved of it. Some hon. Members seemed to think that Government had come forward with the principle, that whenever there was a surplus arising out of a new arrangement of Church property, Parliament would have a right to deal with it as they thought fit. He had not the least hesitation in saying, that this was a principle which he individually advocated, and therefore he ought to be considered an impartial witness when he stated, that not only was that principle not advanced by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he brought the question forward, but it was distinctly repudiated by him. The noble Lord distinctly declared, that whatever his private opinion might be, the right of Parliament to deal with Church property was a question reserved and postponed. Were hon. Members aware, that it had always been denied that the surplus was Church property? He (Mr. Macaulay) appealed to both sides of the House if such was not the statement made by the noble Lord? The Government had declared, that they did not consider the surplus fund arising from Bishops' leases as Church property. Whether they were right or wrong in saying, that it was not Church property he would not take upon himself to say, but he would say that, in proposing that that surplus should be placed at the disposal of Parliament, to be applied to secular purposes, they neither declared whether ecclesiastical property should be applied to secular purposes or not, for, in so disposing of it, they had considered it as not ecclesiastical. He would venture to say, that no member of the Cabinet supported the Bill on the principle that Church property was at the disposal of Parliament. He himself considered the question suspended till the surplus should have actually arrived. To say, that Ministers were abandoning a principle was absurd. Under these circumstances, and seeing that neither money nor the principle of the Bill was sacrificed by
 1084
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, the Ministers had only abandoned a principle which was found to be totally untenable. If the same principle were attempted to be established with reference to private property, every man then would rise in arras against it. If acted upon, then enactments would not be looked upon as mere Acts of Parliament, but as Acts of Confiscation.
 The Solicitor General  said, that it seemed to him that there was no criterion to regulate them. Some Bishops acted one way and some another. The Amendment would, therefore, be impracticable. He could not, he must own, view the conduct of the Irish Members on the present occasion without some suspicion. Gentlemen were united in opposition to this clause who were at variance upon almost every other question.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that even if this clause were left out there was quite sufficient in the Bill to mortify the friends of the Established Church, and afford matter of triumph to its enemies—there was enough still left in the Bill to induce him to give it his most determined opposition. To adopt this clause, under existing circumstances, would, in his opinion, be nothing less than a gratuitous insult to the Clergy.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he did not rise for the purpose of taking any part in the warm conflict which had arisen, but merely for the purpose of stating the opinion he had originally entertained with respect to this clause. He came down to the House this evening, with the intention of giving his cordial support to the Amendment of the hon. member for Newcastle-under-Line, that whatever surplus there might be from the improved value of the Bishops' lands should be applied to the purposes of the United Churches of England and Ireland. The object of that Amendment seemed to him to be fully answered by the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, and he, therefore, supposed that the hon. Member would not think it necessary to press his Amendment. But there was one observation he must notice. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had said, that this measure of the Government had been adopted in consequence of a compromise with their opponents. For himself, he utterly disclaimed all knowledge of any such compromise, and he declared,
 1090
 Lord Ebrington  had no objection to his hon. and gallant friend's expressing his opinion of any proceedings in Parliament in the best possible way; but he thought it rather too much of his hon. and gallant friend to state such sentiments of Ministers as he had just uttered, after the Motion of confidence in them which his gallant friend had moved and carried the other night. He agreed with the hon. member for Derby in the opinions expressed by him with respect to Church property, and the power of the Legislature over it; but it should be recollected that his noble friend (Lord Althorp), in bringing forward this measure, had left the question of the applicability of Church property open; and as no practical benefit could at present arise from the assertion of this principle, he could not see that this was a proper time for doing so, as would be the case were the clause persisted in. He should never be found wanting in asserting the due rights of the House of Commons when a necessity arose for vindicating them, but at present there existed no such necessity. When he considered the benefits which would arise from the removal of Vestry-cess and other vexations, he must say, that although he feared not collision with the other branch of the Legislature, as the withdrawal of this clause would not affect the general be-
 1093
 Lord Sandon  thought, that the proceedings of this night formed an ample justification of the Ministry in withdrawing this clause. An opinion had gone abroad that this clause involved the principle that the State had a right to deal with the property of the Church. As that was an error, the sooner it was corrected the better.
 Colonel Evans  presented a petition from a licensed victualler, named William Spicer, relative to the conduct of the Magistracy in granting victuallers' licences. The petitioner stated that he kept a public-house in Tower-street, Seven Dials, and that having taken an active part on the behalf of one of the candidates for the coronership of Middlesex, he thereby incurred the displeasure of a Magistrate of the county, and was in consequence threatened with retaliation; that very shortly afterwards Mr. Flower, the Magistrate alluded to, obtained a licence for a public-house within sixteen yards of the petitioner's house, while there were already near fifty licensed public-houses within a radius of 100 yards from the house of the petitioner. He also stated, that the house alluded to was next to a chapel, and that it was very much against the wishes of the inhabitants to grant any additional licences, as there
 1130
 Mr. Hume  said, that he understood the right hon. Gentleman to intimate that this was necessary in consequence of clause 147 having been struck out of the Bill, which clause, in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion, was the only one worth attending to, either by that House or by the country. As well as he understood the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, the object of his Amendment was this—that whereas as the law stood at present, it was not in the power of any person to sell Church land in perpetuity, this Bill went to give that power to certain Commissioners, and the Amendment provided that the proceeds of the sale thus made by those Commissioners should be solely appropriated to the maintenance of the present Church Establishment of Ireland. He wished to know whether he was correct in his interpretation of the Amendment, as he had not heard distinctly a single word that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman on the subject?
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that by the 147th clause the purchase monies, arising out of the sale in perpetuity of Bishop's lands was to be left as a separate fund in the hands of the Commissioners, to be treated differently and appropriated to different purposes from Church property generally. Now, it was thought that the distinction which the Government had thus, in the first instance, proposed to make between that property and other Church property was not a well-founded one, and it was, therefore, deemed right and necessary, without affirming or denying the power of Parliament to deal with Church property as it might think fit, that such a distinction should not by this Bill be created between any portions of that property. Now clause 147 having been omitted, if
 1136
 Mr. Hume  said, that if he understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, this Bill should be described as a Bill for adding 3,000,000 l 1137 l 1138 l l
 Major Beauclerk  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex bad forestalled
 1139 l
 Sir Henry Willoughby  denied the possibility of creating a new value in property, by Act of Parliament, so as to make it applicable to public purposes. But in the first place, the hon. member for Middlesex was mistaken in supposing that this Bill would give to the Church of Ireland something that it had not before. He would assert positively that the fee-simple, as well as the interest in those lands, was in the Church of Ireland, and in the Church of Ireland alone. He repeated, that it was an error to suppose it possible that Acts of Parliament could impart new value to property, so as to render it available for public purposes: such a doctrine would strike at the root of all property in the kingdom. If, by an Act of Parliament, a new road or a new canal was made through his property, so as to give an additional value to it, was it to be contended that that additional value should go to the public?
 Lord Duncannon  was sure that no man who was acquainted with Ireland could be ignorant of the enormities arising from the Vestry Cess in that country, and therefore could not but think that the clause which went to take away that impost was a great benefit upon the people of Ireland. He begged to observe, that he had voted the other night for leaving out the 147th clause, not with a view of taking from the Parliament the appropriation of Church property; if the omission would have had that effect, he most certainly should not have so voted, but he considered that by the course he had followed he had merely done that which would cause the appropriation of the Church funds to the payment of the Church Cess; the House having, on a former occasion, thought right to alter the clause which imposed a tax upon original incumbents, that tax being intended originally to pay the Church Cess. He felt satisfied that the surplus, whether it might amount to 1,000,000 l l 1140
 Mr. Hume  said, that it appeared to him that the terms of the clause involved another deviation from the principles which had been stated when the Bill was first introduced. The noble Lord, the member for Nottingham, in stating the reasons which had induced him to concur in the vote of the last night, had seemed entirely to forget the grounds upon which the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had introduced the Bill. It had then been stated by the noble Lord that the relief intended to be afforded to the people was to be effected from and defrayed by a tax upon the present incumbents and Bishops, and upon the bishoprics and livings falling in. He could not see how the present Amendment could be carried while the 49th clause was retained in the Bill, for the House would remember, that by it every sum due and payable to the Commissioners of First Fruits and arrears, or any sums advanced by them for repairing, rebuilding, or improving glebe and other houses, should be transferred and made payable to the Commissioners named under this Act. It would only be fair to let the House and the country know what was the amount of this, and it was a proceeding much to be deprecated that by an Amendment like the present, of four or five lives, a vote of 400,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not think that the hon. member for Middesex really understood that to which he objected. He (Mr. Stanley) imagined that the hon. Member, with all his calculations, could not attach much importance to the point, whether the public should pay now that which eventually they must be bound to pay by instalments; and whether this obligation was fulfilled by the 147th clause, or by the 54th clause, he (Mr. Stanley) apprehended no great difference was made. The object of the Amendment proposed to be added to the 54th clause was merely to transfer to it from the 147th clause a provision for the payment from other sources of a sum of between 300,000 l l
 Sir Robert Inglis  contended, that Church property was as sacred as any other species of property whatever. The noble Lord, the member for Nottingham, had talked of the enormities of Church Cess, and he could not but think that the speech of the noble Lord was much more fit for a former member for Kilkenny than became the representative for the county of Nottingham. But with reference to the alleged enormities of Church Cess, he would refer to the returns made to Parliament, which showed that in no case had it amounted to more than eighteen-pence an acre, and in numerous instances to not more than two-pence halfpenny. He, therefore, was of opinion that the observations which had been thrown out on the subject of Church Cess being a grievance were a delusion of the public. It could not be shown, that it was such a grievance as to call upon the Parliament to interfere. Again, it could not be shown that any surplus would arise, and the most morbid lover of crime and spoliation would not encourage a principle of taking property when there was nothing real to grasp at. In his view, money was a secondary object in this question. His great objection was the interference which was made with the spiritual functions of the Church, and without, for one moment, conceding to the House its right to interfere with the property of the Church, and feeling also that the property sought to be affected did not exist, he must, on the contrary, protest against any such interference by an assembly of laymen instead of a clerical convocation. So long as such an interference was made with the spiritual functions of his Church, he should oppose the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted to the fullest extent that the House had no right to interfere with the spiritual functions and jurisdiction of the Church. He could not assent to any such interference with the Church to which he (Mr. O'Connell) belonged; and, on the same principle he would object to such an interference with the spiritual functions of the Church to which the hon. Baronet was attached; but still he thought that the House had a complete jurisdiction over the pounds, shillings and pence—the tithes and oblations of the Church—and he only regretted that jurisdiction had not been more expressly and distinctly laid down and enforced in the present instance. The emphatic value and importance of
 1142 l l l 1143
 Dr. Lushington  had listened to the returns which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and was surprised that after quoting those documents the hon. and learned Gentleman should differ from the provisions of the Bill. It was evident that a grievance was to be remedied, which grievance, according to the hon. and learned Gentleman's own showing, must remain, unless the Amendment now proposed should be adopted. The only object of the amendment was to engraft on clause 54 certain portions of clause 147, and it was a mistake to suppose that by it any additional funds were to be appropriated to Church purposes. Any resulting surplus would remain unimpaired for future appropriation. The Amendment was merely following up the principle of the Bill,
 Mr. Hume's  Amendment was with drawn.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that though he admitted the want of Churches in Ireland was most deplorable, yet he must insist that within the last seven years the number of benefices in which no service was performed had decreased. If the returns had been made in 1800 instead of a more recent date, it would have been found that six-sevenths of the whole were in the State complained of. He would also
 1144
 Mr. O'Connell  would entreat the hon. and learned Member to inquire whether the reverend Dr. Ryan, of Leixlip, had not collected his tithes up to the 28th of May. He would also refer the hon. and learned Member to Fermoy, where he would find two different modes of proceeding had been adopted for the purpose of increasing the costs. He (Mr. O'Connell) could also show an instance of a Church having been rebuilt three times within twenty years, and yet it could not be stated, that there was an increase of Protestants in Ireland.
 Mr. Ronayne  could not avoid stating to the House the course which had been pursued with regard to tithes by another clergyman, the reverend Mr. Devereux of Stradbally. That individual had sued a widow of the name of Macarthy, through his agent, for 17 s d l s
 Sir Samuel Whalley  contended that the purposes of the Bill were entirely altered by striking out the 147th clause. No surplus could arise from the sale of perpetuities which was not already disposed of by this Bill in other clauses besides the 54th clause, for there were two other clauses which empowered the Commissioners to make grants for building parsons' houses, and, secondly, for the augmentation of small livings. The tax upon future incumbents would be slow in accumulating, and therefore, with such an appropriation of the other funds, there
 1145
 Mr. Hardy  was of opinion that any surplus would be at the disposal of the Commissioners, with the authority and approbation of Parliament; but the question which the hon. member for Middlesex seemed most anxious to impress upon the House was, whether that surplus should be applied to secular or ecclesiastical purposes. The hon. Member had said, that the proposition would give 3,000,000 l l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member who spoke last was offering something like a gratuitous insult to Ireland when he boasted of having invested the Lord-lieutenant with the power of stifling the expression of public opinion in that country. As to the Coercion Bill having tranquillized Ireland, the Irish Members had always contended, that if Government had exerted its power before that measure was passed, agrarian disturbances could easily have been suppressed.
 Mr. Finn  charged the Whig Government—he charged the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies—with having provoked and produced the excesses, to repress which he had called for the Coercive Bill. When that right hon. Gentleman talked of the extinction of tithes, he (Mr. Finn) had done what he could to prevent the people being deluded. He had gone amongst them and told them that it would not be so; he had called on them not to suffer themselves to be deluded, and had told them that those words would never be carried into effect. In Kilkenny, the very county which had since been proclaimed, he had attended
 1146
 Mr. Slaney  rose to order. He did so with regret; but he appealed to the Chairman whether the hon. Gentleman was not departing altogether from the subject before the House.
 Mr. Finn : The hon. Gentleman should have called the hon. member for Bradford to order who referred to the Coercion Bill, which was not now before the House. Was that hon. Gentleman to be allowed to attack the hon. members for Ireland, and must he not defend them? Was the hon. Member's escapade to be permitted, and was he not to follow him? He was stating that a delusion had been practised, and that it had been seen through. The Bill before them was another delusion, with the promise of 3,000,000 l 1147
 Mr. Shaw  said, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Clonmel, that clergymen were compelled to resort to an expensive process to recover tithes, because in many instances the server of the cheap process refused to perform his duty. In no instance, however, did clergymen resort to legal proceedings until all other means had failed. It was said, that order was restored in Ireland; but he happened to know, that the reverend Mr. Austin, the holder of one of the largest livings in Ireland had lately thrown it up and quitted the country, because he was unable to obtain his tithes.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that if he understood the effect of the Amendment, it was, to add the perpetuity fund to the common fund, to be applied to the purposes to which that common fund was applicable. He objected to that appropriation for this reason—the perpetuity fund either was Church property, or it was not. If it was not, as the Government argued, it ought not to be applied to the ecclesiastical purposes mentioned in the 54th Clause, because, being created by the State, it was clearly the property of the State; if, on the other hand, it was Church property, the appropriation of it to ecclesiastical purposes was augmenting an establishment which was already mischievously large, and ought to be diminished.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the effect of this clause would be to set up and add to the stability of the Irish Church, in a ten-fold degree. He could not at first understand what the right hon. Secretary for the
 1148
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the 84th Clause was certainly referred to. The object was to throw the whole into one general fund, to apply that fund to the general objects of the Bill—such as the abolition of the Vestrycess, &c., and then to that purpose of the Bill comprised in the 84th Clause—the augmentation of benefices up to the amount of 200 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he was glad he had drawn forth this explanation from the right hon. Gentleman. In England it was with the utmost difficulty that we could get small benefices of even 40 l l 1149
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  admitted, that his noble friend when he brought forward the Coercive Bill did state, that he should have been exceedingly reluctant to bring forward such a measure, unless he also meant to bring forward measures for the removal of grievances. Two of the most prominent of those grievances were represented to be the collection of Tithes and of Vestrycess. A Resolution had already been passed which would put a stop to the collection of tithes, at least, for the present; and he then held in his hand a Bill for the total abolition of Vestry-cess. And if the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) would propose any words to make that Bill more forcible, those words should be added. Was not this a performance of their pledge? His noble friend never intended to meet what appeared to be the expectation of the hon. member for Middlesex—namely, to destroy the Irish Church, for the preamble of this Bill was then lying on the Table, in which it was expressly stated, that the fund to be raised was to be applied to the building, &c., of churches, the augmentation of small livings, and to such other purposes as might conduce to the advancement of religion, and the efficacy, permanence, and stability of the United Churches of England and Ireland.
 Mr. Littleton  expressed his surprise, knowing as he did the opinions of the hon. member for Middlesex, that he should object to allowing a clergyman of the Established Church 200 l 1150
 Mr. Robinson  had voted in the—he would call it—memorable minority on Friday night, in order to record his disapprobation of the disingenuous and uncandid—to use the mildest terms—conduct of Ministers in withdrawing the most important clause of their own pledged Bill.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that on the introduction of this Bill it was never contemplated to do away with the whole law regulating parochial assessments in Ireland. The object of the present Bill was, to regulate the temporalities of the Irish Church, and nothing else. To accede to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be at once to put an end to the provision now existing for the poor for foundlings, and other useful purposes, such as fire-engines, to which nobody, whatever were his opinions, could be opposed. The principle of the present Bill went to relieve the Roman Catholics from all Church-cess for the support of the Protestant Church. He did not mean to defend the 7th George 4th, and his (Mr. Stanley's) first act on coming into office in Ireland was to bring in a bill to amend that Statute with respect to appeals. The present Bill would not remove all that was in that Act, but it only permitted such portions to remain as were applicable to really useful purposes. If a change were to be made, let it be done by a Substantive Act of Parliament, and not in this incidental manner.
 Mr. O'Connell  declared, that this Bill was merely a delusion. In the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman and his supporters
 1151 l l l
 Sir Robert Peel  never heard a question mooted where there appeared so little real ground for difference of opinion. The object of the Bill was to do away with an exclusive Protestant Vestry altogether. That was done, and all that was retained was what might be effected for general purposes by Protestants and Catholics indiscriminately. The hon. and learned member for Dublin contended for the total repeal of the 7th George 4th; but the effect of this would be to repeal all the Statutes by which any provision existed for the poor in Ireland. At present some provision was allowed to be made for the poor, and from the nature of things the Roman Catholics must benefit by it. He would take from the return before him St. Mary's parish. There a sum of 248 l l l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that Catholics, though legally admissible to these vestries, were in fact excluded. In Dublin they were held in vestry-rooms perhaps twelve feet by ten in extent, and the mass of the parishioners were kept out. As to the 40 l s
 Dr. Lushington  did not mean to advocate the Act complained of, but the effect of the Amendment would be, to put an end to all legal provision for the poor. Perhaps the hon. and learned Member's objection might be obviated by words in this clause declaring, that if any parish officer hereafter levied any Vestry-cess for mere Church purposes, any officer levying or suing for the same should be liable to pay four times their amount, and to double costs. The hon. and learned Member talked of the Common Law, but at Common Law there were many purposes most useful, and almost indispensably necessary, for which Vestries had no power to make a rate.
 Mr. R. Sheil  strongly reprobated the 7th George 4th, both as to appeals and costs, and asked whether, as Parliament had removed all other distinctions between Catholics and Protestants, they would permit this one to remain.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he owed an apology to the Committee for having' already occupied so large a portion of their time in the discussion of the details of the measure before them, but he trusted, that taking into consideration the peculiar situation in which he stood in reference to the Irish branch of the Established Church, they would feel, that he was not entirely without excuse. He hoped, too, that they would do him the justice to acknowledge, that while he was uncompromising, he had not been vexatious in his opposition, and that from the second reading to the present time he had endeavoured not to dwell upon minor points to which he objected, but to lay hold of those broad and striking features of the Bill which demonstrated to his mind, that it would never pass into a law without great and irreparable injury to the united Church Establishment. While it professed to reform, he had pointed out, that its real tendency was to spoliate the property and greatly diminish, if not altogether destroy, the efficiency of the Church. As regarded the question of property, he admitted, that the omission of the 147th clause which had occurred on Friday night was a considerable improvement; but the second ground of objection—the contracting the influence and crippling the energies of the Protestant religion in Ireland, remained in its full force, and pre-eminently lay in the 110th clause, which the Committee had then to consider. The principle upon which the Government went was, that there should not be an incumbent where there was not service in a benefice. With that he was not inclined to quarrel; he allowed it was an evil that there should be an incumbent without service being performed; but there were two ways of remedying the evil—the one to remove the incumbent, the other to establish the celebration of service. The Government proposed the first, which he (Mr. Shaw) could not too strongly deprecate; but he would gladly adopt the second, and assist to the utmost in extending the benefits of the established religion into every district of the country. That was the course which the Irish Bishops were successfully pursuing at the very time that it was sought to reduce their numbers by nearly one-half, and transfer their authority to a kind of lay Commission, whose duty the clause then under consideration would make it to prevent that very extension of the
 1154 1155 malum, in se 1156
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the object of the clause was quite the reverse of that attributed to it by the hon. and learned Gentleman. That clause was intended to conduce, and he was sure would conduce, to promote the interests of the Protestant Church, and the diffusion of the Protestant religion in Ireland. The way in which the hon. and learned Gentleman, it appeared, wished to produce that desirable end, was by erecting Protestant Churches in places where there was no Protestant congregation, and where there was not even a probability of a Protestant congregation. Now the present clause went to work in a different manner. It proposed to empower the Commissioners, the majority of whom would be ecclesi s-tics, to transfer the emoluments accruing from benefices where no duties had been performed for a certain period, and where there were no duties to perform, to the illpaid
 1157
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin had no need to be so mightily frightened as to the anticipated effect of this clause. If the words of the clause were—"that the celebration of divine worship shall have been intermitted therein for the period of three years previous to the 1st of January, 1833," then, indeed, the hon. and learned Gentleman might have some grounds for alarm; but the words in the clause were—"for the period of three years previous to the passing of this Act." The Act Would not be passed at least for a month to come. The hon. and learned Gentle man had therefore only to address a circular to his constituents—to the 2,000 Protestant clergymen that existed in Ireland; and let them sally forth to celebrate divine service in all those hitherto neglected benefices. They had abundant time to perform the work. It would be a  piafraus
 Colonel Conolly  said, that although he had relaxed nothing in his hostility to the general principle involved in the Bill, he considered the clause then under discussion as forming one of the most objectionable features of the whole measure; it bespoke not merely an intention, but a manifest desire, on the part of his Majesty's Ministers, to eradicate the Protestant religion—a circumstance which he could not view without pain, or cease to deplore. He was satisfied, that the consequences of the measure must be such as he predicted. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, in the early part of the evening, laid great stress upon the return that had been made of the number of benefices in which divine service had not been performed for three years, hut it was rather strange, seeing that he was a supporter of the measure, that he should have selected the diocese of Limerick. Now it was notorious that that diocese had been for a long period deprived of the superintendence of its excellent diocesan,
 1158 prima facie 1159
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that his objection to the proposition before the House was, that instead of encouraging the performance of divine service in parishes where it had not been for some time performed, the Bill proceeded upon the principle of preventing its performance in future The right hon. Gentleman asks whether we would have a church built in every parish, whether there was a congregation there or not? By no means—but in parishes where it might not be deemed adviseable to build a church, it might be adviseable to license a house for divine service. He did not certainly mean to say, that even out of these funds they should in every case he at the expense of building a church; but the utmost
 1160 1161 Stanley 1162
 Lord Duncannon  thought it necessary to respect Catholic as well as Protestant feeling. He was anxious to support the Protestant establishment, but not in parishes where, there being no Protestant inhabitants, the benefices were merely sinecures—a scandal to the Protestant Church, and a grievance to the Roman Catholic population.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that it appeared to him that the object of the Amendment proposed by his hon. friend, Mr. Shaw, was, that the progressive improvement now taking place under the superintendence of the Bishops in Ireland should not be put a stop to. He objected to the last three years being taken as a criterion—a period which was more fertile than any preceding period in the expulsion of clergymen from their livings. It appeared that the Bill was to have no operation until after the avoidance of the living. If peace and tranquillity should be restored in Ireland, and if service should be performed in the parish for fifteen years to come, it was not imperative upon the Commissioners to prevent the operation of the clause. The noble Lord the member for Nottingham stated that in one parish some of the parishioners were fourteen miles from the Church; that might be a good reason for licensing houses, but the circumstance added little to the strength of the noble Lord's argument in favour of abolishing benefices.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley,  to remove all difficulty, was willing to take the date of the return as the period from which the three years should be computed. He therefore, moved to insert the words, "three years next preceding the 1st of February, 1833."
 Mr. Robert Gordon  supported the Bill. It was important that the expenses to which the Sheriff of a county was liable should be reduced.
 Mr. Tooke  opposed the Bill, which presented in his judgment a perfect wantonness in legislation. Some of its provisions were ridiculous.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  objected to the Bill because it went to saddle the county, already sufficiently burthened, with an annual expense of between 500 l l
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  denied that its provisions would impose on the counties of England a single additional shilling.
 Mr. Lamb  did not think the House could interfere, except by an alteration of the present law. If malversation or corruption were brought home to any Magistrate, he was punishable at common law; and Magistrates had not unfrequently been brought before the Court of King's Bench and punished, though he was bound to admit the chances under the existing law were very unfavourable to the complaining party. He believed the petitioner had been hardly dealt with, and attributed it to the great powers intrusted to Magistrates by the Act, but he nevertheless did not see any remedy but by an amendment of the present laws.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented a petition from 150,000 persons, assembled at a public meeting of the inhabitants of Birmingham, at New Hall
 1131 s d 1132 1133 1134 1135
 Sir Francis Burdett  thought the petitioner's case one of great oppression. He had long been of opinion, that the law required alteration, and that opinion was very much strengthened by the singular case before the House, which went to show that it was in the power of a Magistrate to grant a licence improperly, as well as to refuse one. The law had been long and loudly complained of, and he did not see a fitter opportunity for inqiury than in the present instance. A much higher value was set upon property of this description, and more money given for it, on the good faith and understanding that no new licences would be granted in the immediate neighbourhood, unless a positive necessity was shown for granting them. In this case none had been shown, and he was bound to say there was every appearance of the exertion of undue influence. Under these circumstances, he earnestly recommended the gallant Colonel to carry the matter further, and suggested a Committee of inquiry
 Mr. Ruthven  highly approved of the conduct of the Government in refusing to grant this return. Such a document should not be produced for the purpose of influencing the determination of the Legislature.
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against the production of this document for the purpose of influencing Parliament, and must say, that he doubted whether the Judges should have been consulted at all upon the Bill. He was sorry to hear, that they approved so much of the Bill. He would much rather that they had altogether disapproved of it.
 Mr. Stanley  was ready to agree in the statement that the opinion of the Judges should not be brought forward in order to influence the decisions of that House. After what had passed on the subject of this Bill last Session, the Government had thought it necessary to take the opinion of the Judges in Ireland as to the practical working and effect of the measure.
 1234
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  on moving the first part of schedule A, fixing the yearly tax chargeable upon all benefices, observed that the schedule had been formed on the principle of a per centage, increasing according to the value of the living, and commencing at five per cent, upon livings of 200 l l 1235 l l l s l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  replied, that the scale would remain the same, except cutting off the lower part of it.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the point was not one to which he really attached much importance, but was one altogether for the feeling and judgment of the House. The grounds upon which 200 l l l l l 1237
 Mr. Heathcote  recommended the Government to acquiesce in what he thought
 1238 l
 Mr. O'Connell  also approved of the alteration. It was not the small incomes of the lower clergy, but the large incomes of the Archbishops and Bishops which ought to he reduced.
 Colonel Conolly  was sorry to find, that the right hon. Gentleman objected to the production of the document in question. He had had several conversations with the Judges in Ireland upon the subject, and they all were of opinion the Bill in question, in many of its details, must operate anything but beneficially. The constitution of Juries in Ireland was a subject than which nothing could be of greater importance, and he, therefore, could not help regretting, that the right hon. Gentleman should object to the production of a document which would enable the House to come to a sound decision on the subject. He was there authorized to give utterance to the sentiments of the Judges, and he had no hesitation in stating, that they all reprobated that part of the measure which appeared to give so much satisfaction to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin.
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  regretted very much, that his Majesty's Government had come to the decision of opposing the Motion of his hon. and learned friend. He thought the Government was bound to give the House every information upon the subject, before they called upon hon. Members to pronounce an opinion on the Bill.
 Mr. Ellice  rose and said, that, before the hon. Gentleman proceeded to make his Motion, he wished to inform the House, that since the subject had been under discussion in the House, it had occupied the serious attention of his Majesty's Government, and that an order had been framed, he could not as yet say it had been issued, but, if not issued, no delay would take place in issuing it, restricting the practice of inflicting corporal punishment as nearly as possible to those cases specified in the Amendment moved by the hon. member for Middlesex on a former occasion, and which had been seconded by the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster. Although he might mislead the House by stating that the Resolution in question had been couched in the very terms of the Amendment of the hon. Member; yet he believed it was nearly so; and of this he could assure the House, that his Majesty's Government were most anxious that the infliction of corporal punishment should be restricted within the utmost possible limits that were supposed to be consistent with the maintenance of discipline in the army. He hoped, therefore, under such circumstances, that the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion, and that he would not renew it during the present Session. it was most important that they should not have a discussion again upon it during the present Session, and he therefore trusted, that the hon. Member would be disposed to place confidence in his Majesty's Government, who were most anxious to do all in their power to restrain the practice in question, and that he would not renew his notice on the subject during this Session.
 Mr. Littleton  was sorry that he felt obliged to object to the Motion. He sincerely wished, that he could, consistent with sound principle and precedent lay the paper which the hon. and learned Gentleman called for on the Table of the House; for though the Judges expressed their disapprobation of one part of the Bill, it would be found, that they bore valuable testimony to the utility and advantage of other parts of it. There was no precedent for granting such a return as this; on the score of convenience, too,
 1233
 Mr. Shaw  rose to move for a copy of the correspondence between the Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Irish fudges, relative to the Irish. Juries Bill. He would be the last person to ask for such a document if it could be considered a confidential communication, or one advising the discretion of the Executive. But a moment's consideration of the nature of the paper in question would show, that a refusal to produce it could not be cloaked under the plea of its being a confidential communication. The Bill to which it had reference passed the House last Session, and afterwards was referred to a Select Committee of the House of Lords—while the Bill was in that state, the Secretary for Ireland addressed an official communication to the twelve Irish Judges, requesting their opinion how far its principle could be carried into effect without endangering the due execution of Justice. The Judges had written an official answer, the existence of which was not only admitted, but their opinion had been represented by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland as favourable to the measure, while five peers who had read the opinion solemnly and expressly recorded their dissent from the measure because the opinion of the Judges was unfavourable to it, and he (Mr. Shaw) would add, that having been permitted by the courtesy of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lamb), to read the opinion himself, that while the Judges admitted that some of the enactments of the Bill might be introduced with advantage, they conveyed their most distinct disapprobation of its principal provisions. The main feature was the establishment of a Juror's book. That was the important and material change made by the Bill; and the Judges declared, that in the present state of Ireland that alteration in the Jury system was most objectionable, and must lead to consequences endangering the administration of justice in that country. They also said, that in their opinion the great majority of persons who would, under the Bill, be qualified in respect of property to serve as Jurors, would in all other requisites of a Juror be unfit to be returned on a
 1232
 Mr. Shaw  said, that if the opinion of the Judges was not to be produced, he certainly concurred with the right hon. Gentleman that it ought not to have been referred to, and he could only remind the right hon. Gentleman that the first person who had referred to the opinion for the purpose of supporting his own views (though if produced it must have the very contrary effect) was the Lord Chancellor of Ireland. He did not deny, that in a constitutional point of view it was the province of Juries to check and control Judges, but no one knew better than the honorable and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) that that was not the only duty Irish Juries had to perform; and upon that account he readily believed the hon. Gentleman when he said, that the less the Judges liked the Bill, the better it would please the hon. and learned Member. He (Mr. Shaw) had heard no good reason given for the non-production of the correspondence, but he would leave with the Government the responsibility of refusing his Motion.
 Mr. Warburton  said, though that was not the time to discuss the principle of a graduated Property-tax, he was prepared to show, upon a first rate authority, that such a tax was most equitable. The question had been discussed by La Place in his "Theory of Probabilities," and whenever the subject should be discussed he should be prepared to support his views by that authority.
 Mr. Buckingham  had heard the statement just made by the right hon. Gentleman with very great satisfaction, and he was sure, that it would be satisfactory both to the House and to the country. To the right hon. Gentleman himself, in no small degree, was due the credit that attached to the conduct of the Government in this instance. He was willing to give a proof of the confidence which he placed in the good intentions of his Majesty's Ministers by withdrawing his Motion for the present Session, and thus giving a trial to the experiment which they proposed of reducing the amount of corporal punishment in the army. He begged, however, in doing so, to give
 1231
 Mr. Hume  was glad that the right hon. Baronet had not fixed the amount at 500 l l l
 Mr. Sheil  asked if the whole sum would remain as it was before the proposed alteration?
 Sir Robert Peel  would readily bow to the authority of La Place on a question of pure mathematics, but on the question of a graduated Property-tax, there were two other elements to be taken into consideration besides those on which La Place had reasoned. La Place supposed the incomes to be fixed, and did not consider the means of acquiring them. La Place did not estimate the influence of such a tax on industry. And he (Sir Robert Peel) was afraid that the desire to accumulate wealth would be greatly abated by a graduated Property-tax.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he would call the particular attention of the House to the few observations, and the proposition he was about to make. He must first give his opinion as a general proposition—that this was a most unfortunate time for setting about to impose a fixed tax upon the incomes of the Church of Ireland, when there existed such peculiar uncertainty as to the amount of that income. Why, the House had, within no extended period, been under the necessity of voting two separate sums of money to the Irish Church, in order to relieve them from the necessity of going to the trouble and expense of law for the attainment of their legal rights. For all he could see, they would still labour under the same difficulties, even after November this year. Whatever might be the result of this measure, he was very sorry that the charge should be defrayed by a graduated Income-tax; and he the more particularly objected to it from the precedent which it would be establishing. It was the more extraordinary, too, after the strong manner in which the idea of a graduated Property or Income-tax had been repudiated by Ministers themselves only the other night. But the great question he wished to speak to was, whether it was right, proper, or expedient, that benefices under the value of 300 l l l l 1236 l s s l l
 Colonel Perceval , while he was ready to mitigate the present excessive penalties imposed on this offence, would maintain, that some checks, such as Scceders were liable to, should be placed upon Roman Catholic clergymen marrying Catholics and Protestants. If there was no clause to that effect in the Bill, and if such a clause should not be introduced into it, he should feel it his duty to oppose the measure.
 Mr. Perrin  apprehended, that the gallant Colonel did not object to the principle of the Bill, and that being the case, if it should be the sense of the House that the clause he mentioned should be added to the Bill, that might be done in the Committee.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that though he thought the penalty in question should be mitigated, he would oppose its entire removal. It was a delusion to say, that this Bill went to place Roman Catholic clergymen in this respect on the same footing as other Dissenters in Ireland, for that was no footing at all. There had hitherto existed a check upon the marriages of Catholics and Protestants by Roman Catholic priests in Ireland, and he hoped that the House would not readily consent to remove it entirely. He would certainly mitigate the penalty, for its too great severity went to defeat its object; but he would not altogether remove the punishment from an offence which, time out of mind had been made subject to penalties by the law of that country.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, it appeared to him, that the objection which had been just urged by the hon. and learned Gentleman was a very well-founded one against the system which at present prevailed in Ireland, but it was not a well-founded one against the principle of this Bill, which went to remove an enormously dispropor-
 1240
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin having spoken of the existence of those penalties "time out of mind," he would just tell the House what they were. One statute made the marrying of a Catholic and Protestant by a Catholic Priest a capital felony, for which he could be executed; by a subsequent statute a penalty of 500 l l
 Sir Robert Bateson  could not give his consent to the Bill, unless it was understood that in a future stage some provision would be made for restricting the Roman Catholic priests and all dissenting ministers from celebrating marriages in certain cases. He wished also particularly to provide against parties called couple-makers in Ire. land, who would celebrate marriages between persons of any persuasion for the smallest donation—nay, even for a bottle of whisky. The evils arising from such acts were loudly complained of in the county with which he was connected.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  said, he must shortly call the attention of the House to the objects of this Bill. By an Act of Anne, and another of the 12th George 3rd, it was provided, that any Catholic clergyman who should celebrate a marriage between a Roman Catholic and a Protestant should be guilty of a capital offence, and should suffer death. The 33rd George 3rd professed to repeal the former Acts so far as making marriages so celebrated invalid, and imposed a
 1241 l
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought, that the hon. and learned Sergeant would have adopted a much better course if, instead of bringing forward this Bill, he had proposed a Select Committee to take the subject into its consideration. A similar measure had been introduced last year, and he had since been in frequent communication on the subject with people in Ireland, and had found that though the statutes which had been referred to were in existence, yet no case of their infringement had been tried, except one in the county of Antrim, where the party had been fined 500 l Perrin
 The Solicitor General  supported the second reading of the Bill, which went merely to repeal certain penal enactments passed by the Irish Parliament. Those penalties were a disgrace to the Statute book, and ought not to be permitted to remain. As the law stood, marriages in Ireland could be contracted without the intervention of a priest at all, and he must object to any distinction being continued between a Roman Catholic minister and those of any other persuasion.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that it was somewhat difficult to deal with his Majesty's Government, for on one day they said one thing, and another the reverse. He alluded par-
 1242 No, no
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  denied, that the Government had made any objection to the principle of the Bill which had been introduced by the hon. member for Dublin. The fact was, that amendments were proposed inconsistent with the principle, and the hon. Member withdrew it. It was most desirable, that the marriage law, both in this country and Ireland, should be examined, for at present it was disgraceful to the country, and he was satisfied, that such an object would not be impeded, but, on the contrary, facilitated, by the House consenting to the second reading of this Bill.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that the Bill which he had introduced last Session had not been defeated by the Government, but by the factious opposition of the high Protestant ascendancy party, whose bigotry had already withered the country, and which he hoped soon to see dwindle away. He was glad to find, that the subject had been taken up by the hon. and learned Sergeant, who should have his support.
 Colonel Perceval  objected to the repeal of the present restrictions upon Roman Catholic priests, unless a sufficient check were placed upon them. He had only proposed such Amendments to the Bill of last Session as would have placed the Roman Catholic priest on the same footing and under similar restrictions, as the Clergy of the Established Church and Dissenting Ministers. He hoped, that the subject would either be referred to a Select Committee, or that the hon. Member who had introduced the Bill would consent, in Committee, to some provisions for placing the Roman Catholic under the same restrictions as other clergy.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this was the exact principle of the Bill, and he hoped a better spirit would arise in the House than to consent to the continuance of the punishment of death for Catholic clergymen celebrating marriages between Roman Catholics and Protestants. He felt satisfied the House would not consent to the continuance of so atrocious a law. With respect to the objecttion to the Bill because it reduced the penalties, he could only say, that he knew of three instances where Roman Catholic clergymen had been compelled to leave the country for some time, in consequence of having celebrated marriages between Roman Catholics and parties who subsequently were proved to be of the Protestant persuasion.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that he approved of the measure as a whole, and thought it would completely put an end to many abuses in the Scotch Burghs, but it needed extension. He was of opinion that the Burgesses should elect their own Magistrates, as was in fact well stated in the preamble to the Bill. The first clause, however, in opposition to the preamble, stated, that the Magistrates were to be elected by the town councils, and that clause had given universal dissatisfaction in Scotland. He did not know why the Magistrates should not be elected by the people, instead of being elected by the intermediate body of the town council. That method would prevent the Burgesses from having a voice even in choosing those who were to manage their pecuniary affairs. He was sure that confiding that important trust to the town councils would occasion amongst them a multitude of cabals. In the borough which he represented the Magistrates had been chosen by the inhabitants at large, for the last seventy years, without any inconvenience, and he certainly should wish to see the same privilege extended to all the Boroughs of Scotland. He would therefore move as an Amendment to insert the words "Provost, Baillies, Treasurer, Town Clerks, and Town Councillors, each individually, and directly, by way of open poll, by which
 1244
 Mr. Gillon  seconded the Amendment. He believed its adoption would put an end to an extensive system of jobbing in the election of the Magistrates of the Royal Burghs.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the substance of the Amendment which had just been moved had been referred to a select Committee up-stairs, and after being discussed had been rejected. The framers of the present measure had acted on this decision, and they were chiefly influenced by this consideration: It was proved before them that in many of the Royal Burghs of Scotland the Magistrates have large power, both civil and criminal; and it was felt that it would be very injudicious to consign into the hands of the people the power of electing those whose office it was to keep wrong-doers in order. It would be hazardous in the extreme to run the risk of men being placed in the Magistry by inflaming the popular passions. On this single ground he should resist the Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was at a loss to know why the people who elected the Town Council, which Town Council afterwards elected the Magistrates, could not at once elect the Magistrates themselves. He could not help thinking that the learned Lord was not acting in the present instance up to his former professed principles with regard to conceding to popular opinion.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  hoped that what could not be conceded to expediency would not be conceded to a desire for popularity. He thought it was not safe to make the road to the Magistracy lead through the gratification of the popular sentiments. The Magistrates should be above, not dependent on, the  vox populi.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  said, he supported the Bill, because he conceived it would form a good foundation for any future enactment on the subject. He was opposed to any alteration before further inquiry. He understood that a Royal Commission had been issued with full powers to collect evidence, and report on the subject before the House, and until that report were made he thought he was bound to support
 1245
 Mr. Bannerman  expressed a wish that the Amendment might be withdrawn, because the people of Scotland, in his opinion, cared nothing about it.
 Sir John Hay  thought, that since a commission was appointed, the discussion on the present measure would in some degree forestal its labours, and relieve it from a great deal of drudgery. It was the duty of the House to make the Bill as perfect as they could.
 Mr. John Maxwell  seconded the Amendment, although he could not admit, that the people of Scotland did not regard this Bill as a great benefit. He thought the learned Lord had framed his Bill in conformity to English notions of wealth.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the principle involved in the hon. Member's pro-position had been repeatedly urged during the progress of the Reform Bill, but the House had always decided against it. It was necessary to make a stand somewhere, and he thought the Committee could not do better than adhere to the franchise established by the Reform Act. If they allowed 5 l
 Mr. Oswald  supported the Amendment, and thought, that no harm would arise from extending the franchise to 5 l
 Sir Alexander Hope  was opposed to the extension of the franchise. He would have consented when the Reform Bill was under discussion, to have a different franchise for different places, but as a uniformity of franchise was then insisted on, he thought it right now to adhere to that principle.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  approved of the
 1247 l
 Mr. Abercromby  opposed the Amendment, on the ground, that it would destroy that uniformity of qualification between the municipal rate of franchise and that for a Member of Parliament, which so much promoted their common interests. He saw no reason why the rate of qualification should be lower for voting for municipal officers than for the Representatives of the people. He admitted, that there was a difficulty as to the small burghs, but the Commission alluded to was to inquire into that case, and he owned that he thought it would be advantageous to those burghs and to the public generally, if the exclusive privilege of those burghs were done away with and they were thrown into the county. Till that was decided, he thought it was no use legislating on the subject, particularly when it was considered, that a uniformity of franchise was on the whole most convenient.
 Mr. Wallace  was convinced, that a 5 l l
 Sir John Hay  would press his Amendment to a division, as he had heard no reason against its adoption which could satisfy the just expectations of the people of Scotland.
 Mr. Murray  was friendly to the principle of extending the franchise in municipal towns, but feared the present was an objectionable mode of effecting it. He supported the Bill in its present shape, because he thought it would do good, though he wished for an extension of the franchise, but he would trust to the inquiries of the Commissioners giving the Burghs that extension hereafter.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought, it would be an injury to the small boroughs to have a uniform franchise at so high a rate, he, therefore, would support the Amendment.
 Mr. Kennedy  would vote against the Amendment, as he conceived it highly expedient, that there should be an identity of qualification between the municipal and the representative franchise. If the former was lowered to 5 l l
 Mr. Gillon  wished to state, that he objected to the exclusion to be perpetuated by this Bill, which would leave the Corporations in Scotland only the same farce of self-election hitherto carried on. The Bill nominally went to extend the rights of inhabitants in burghs, and that it might really do so, he would propose, as an
 1249
 Mr. Hume  supported the Amendment, on the ground that there was no reason why burgesses in Scotland should not be placed on an equal footing with freemen in England. They were certainly not inferior to that class in this country, who enjoyed the privilege of election of members to Parliament. If the burgesses were excluded from the power of choosing their officers, it would be not only gross injustice, but extremely bad policy.
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that there was no exclusion of burgesses by this Bill—they were only not admitted. Those who contended for the rights of burgesses by reference to ancient history, ought to know, that burgesses in 1479 were a different class of persons from those who now assumed the name. The ancient burgesses were  bonâ fide in capile. l in toto
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  agreed in the description given by the learned Lord, and was not therefore anxious for the Amendment as it now stood; but if it were modified, so as to confine the power sought to those who were now burgesses, and to such future burgesses as might be admitted on a higher qualification, then there could be no objection to the admission of the principle.
 Mr. Jervis  thought an infusion of new blood would be highly beneficial to the Scotch corportations, and would vote for the Amendment. The exclusion of this class
 1250
 Mr. Gillon  said, that in compliance with the suggestions of his friends, he would modify his Amendment, and confine the: application of it to the burgesses now existing.
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that it would bring hack the old system and was entirely opposed to the intention of the Bill.
 The Lord Advocate  said, the clause as it stood was introduced by the Committee up stairs, and be saw no reason to alter it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped that, at that late hour, one of the most important Bills ever discussed would not be pressed upon the House; if it was, he should take the sense of the House on the question of going into the Committee.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, he should be extremely sorry to press the subject m the House at an inconvenient time, but his hon. friend would recollect the time that had been wasted, that expectations bad been suspended, that two debates bad already taken place on the principle of the Bill, and if there ever was a Bill in which the details were identified with the principle, this was such.
 Sir Robert Inglis  opposed the Motion. He contended that the advantage gained by the parties who were the objects of the Bill was little, whilst the principle was a serious one With great respect to the majority from whom be differed, the principle was so important that be should not do just ice to himself or the country, if he did not take every opportunity of opposing this Bill. He should move that the debate be adjourned to this day six months.
 Sir Charles Burrell  seconded this Amendment.
 Mr. Tooke  remarked, that the hon. Baronet opposite might not be so alarmed at the awful consequences to be expected from this Bill, as such in measure had already existed as the law of the land for seven years; for by the 4th or 5th of George 1st, on account of the rebellion of 1715, the words now proposed to be omitted in the oath of abjuration were omitted for certain purposes during the period he bad already stated.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said he would give all the opposition in his power to the measure. Many Members who were anxious to deliver their sentiments on it, were not aware that it would have come on that night. He, therefore, moved that the House do now adjourn.
 Viscount Palmerston  put it to the hon.
 1253
 Lord Stormont  would support the Amendment on the ground stated by the hon. member for Oxford.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that though he felt strongly opposed to the Bill, he would not certainly support the present Amendment. The Motion was not pressed, and the House went into a Committee on the Bill.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  proposed, as an Amendment on the first Clause, which went to admit Jews to all the privileges to which Roman Catholics had been admitted, the introduction of the Words "save and except to scats in either House of Parliament."
 Mr. Andrew Johnston , in reference to the oath, provided by the 1st Clause, to be taken by Jews on taking their seats in Parliament said, that in consequence of the interpretation which had been already put upon a similar oath inserted in the Catholic Bill, he did not see the use of having such an oath taken at all, and he, therefore, moved that the proviso in question be altogether omitted.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that, with a view to nullify the measure, and, if possible, to defeat it, he would move the insertion of the words "in the true faith of a Christian," which had been omitted out of the oath.
 The Chairman  suggested that the better way would be to move that the 2nd Clause should be expunged, which the hon. Member accordingly did, and the Committee divided—Ayes 19; Noes 110: Majority 91
 Colonel Evans , although he admitted that in many instances, the conduct of the police was most commendable, yet he could not help recollecting, whenever the subject was brought forward, the printed instructions put forth by the Home Department when the police service first commenced, which stated that they were to be armed, and to inquire into the conduct of the inhabitants of their different districts. Nothing in his opinion was more like the establishment of a  gensdarmerie animus darmerie Hawes: l d
 Mr. Plumtre  seconded the Motion, which he did with the greater pleasure, inasmuch as it had been said in another place only a few days ago, that Political Unions were inconsistent with any plan of good Government. It was also said, that the law was sufficient to put them down, and if it
 1272 imperium in imperio
 Mr. O'Connell  would not have trespassed on the House, had he not been personally alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion, and to whom he felt grateful for the office lie had be-stowed on him. As the hon. Gentleman
 1276 1277
 Mr. Halcombe , amidst calls of "question," said, that these Unions were illegal.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the Poor-laws as they now existed in England. It might be thought, that he was acting prematurely in bringing the question forward before the commission on the subject had terminated its labours; but, having devoted many years to the consideration of those laws and the abuses that existed under them, he was anxious to bring the question forward, and at as early a period as he possibly could. From the report of the commission, he inferred something like a recommendation, that a national or central board should be established for the general administration of the Poor-laws; but for his own part be did not think such a course would be expedient, much less desirable. And indeed it was his opinion that the government of the
 1283 1284 s d
 Mr. Forster  observed, that at all events the proceedings of the Political Unions
 1279
 Mr. Forster  would abstain from going into a recital of the transactions at Walsall during the election; but had not placards calling for the interposition of the Unionists been distributed in all directions for more than a week prior to the day of nomination? If their object was not to intimidate, he knew of no other motive which would, account for their attendance, when they were for the most part strangers and had not a right to vote. With respect to the Petition alluded to by the hon. member for Middlesex, all he could say was, that he had attended for six weeks in the hope that its presentation would afford him an opportunity of refuting its statements, which had been circulated to the prejudice of his supporters. The Petition, however, had not been presented.
 Mr. Ronayne  said, had the hon. member for Oldham lived as long in Ireland as he had, the hon. Member would not have exhibited such indignation at the idea of the people living under a system of espionage. In Ireland, that was common, and at the last the Clonmel Assizes, he elicited the fact, that a policeman was employed and went about as a pedlar, for the purpose of apprehending persons.
 Mr. Littleton  said that, as one of the Representatives of the county, he was, from the information which he had received, enabled to say that it was not only his own individual belief, but the impression of every respectable man in Staffordshire whose testimony was well worth having, that the conduct of the Birmingham Political Unionists during the election for Walsall was most outrageous. He must say that he could not credit the statement that the conduct of the members of that association was not influenced by their leaders,
 1281
 Mr. Littleton  said, it was only justice to the hon. Gentleman to admit, that on the two occasions to which he referred, namely. May and November, he certainly had been mainly instrumental in preserving the public peace.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  said, as such an important matter should not be lost upon so thin a House, he begged to move that it be counted.
 Mr. Finch  had been induced to bring the subject forward solely on account of the situation of the country and the aspect of our affairs abroad; but as the discussion which had taken place had convinced him that such Unions were so contemptible as to be wholly unworthy of notice, he should on that ground consent to withdraw his Motion. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had thought fit to stigmatize the Motion as a silly Motion. This was not very courteous, but although not a professional man he would defy any lawyer to deny that such associations were illegal. He must, however, express the surprise which he had felt on hearing the noble Lord opposite advocate the cause of Political Unions. [Lord  Althorp Althorp 1280
 Mr. Finch  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring before the House a subject of considerable importance, although not, perhaps, of so great importance as some questions which had been brought before it in the course of the Session. It was a subject, however, on which a great deal of public feeling had been excited, and the result of their discussion that evening would be looked forward to with great interest. He begged that it might be most distinctly understood, that he brought the question of the Political Unions forward with no party views, and being a Member of no influence in that House, it would be debated without reference to party feeling. Whatever the result might be, he trusted it would tend towards the best interests of the country. He assured those hon. Members who might take up the defence of Political Unions, that if they could prove Political Unions to be legal or constitutional to the satisfaction of the House, he should be happy to withdraw his Motion. For himself he must confess, that after patiently investigating the subject, he had not been able to discover in these Political Unions any one redeeming virtue. They were, in their origin, in their principles, and their development, as far as their influence extended, fraught with unmixed mischief. He did not mean to say that, at the present moment, the Political Unions were all powerful, or even influential, but he thought, on that very account, that the present was the proper time to take them into consideration. He was not about to ask for any new law—for the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus 1264 1265 The Resolutions of the Birmingham Union 1266 1267 1268 Name 1269 O'Connell: pro aris et focis 1270 1271
 Mr. Sinclair  concurred with the hon. member for Oldham, that the case was one requiring investigation, but, at the same time, he felt it his duty to take the opportunity of stating his conviction that the police of the metropolis were an eminently useful body of men, and were distinguished by their civility and attention. The hon. member for Oldham had compared the late
 1261
 Mr. Walter  was neither a friend nor an enemy to Political Unions; for he Was certain that their merit or demerit must entirely depend upon the nature of the object which men unite for the purpose of obtaining. That object being beneficial, then, he was thoroughly convinced that the best method of obtaining it was by Unions; and all the maxims which they had ever heard of the advantages of unanimity and concord would apply; for individual and detached efforts could do but little. A Union, however, which the present Motion induced him now to bring under the notice of the House, was not of that laudable character, but was a Political Union of a most mischievous nature and tendency. In the county which he had the honour of representing, a Political Union had been formed for an object which he had no hesitation in describing as in a high degree factious and improper. It was a Union of the Magistracy chiefly, to raise a sum of money to be expended in defraying not only the cost of registering the voters who were admitted upon the register in last November, but also the cost of placing
 1278 Hurst Lodge, Maidenhead, Berks, April 28, 1833. DEAR Sir—At a numerous Meeting of Gentlemen of the County, which took place yesterday at the Bear Inn, Reading, (Mr. Benyon de Beauvoir in the Chair), to consider the propriety of paying strict attention to the registration of the voters in this county on all future occasions, and to examine into the expenses caused by their original enrolment, it was resolved (among other Resolutions, which I hope shortly to have the pleasure of sending you post free), that it was highly unjust and unfair that the whole expenses attending the original registration of voters, which is to serve as the guide and basis of all future elections, should be imposed on those gentlemen who happened to be candidates for the representation of the county at that particular period, and that a subscription of sums of moderate amount, varying from 30 l l I was directed by the Meeting to ascertain your sentiments on the subject, and I shall feel much obliged by as early a reply as convenient, addressed to this place. I am, dear Sir, very faithfully yours, GEOROE HENRY ELLIOTT.
 Mr. Wilks  regretted that the attention of the House should have been at all diverted from the petition. It was a most important petition, and the hon. member for Oldham had done himself great honour in bringing it forward. The subject deserved the most attentive consideration. A system, which induced even a single individual to act as a spy, called upon the House to express its indignation at the fact, in order to put down so base a system. It had been by the introduction of spies into a part of Scotland a few years ago, that all the lamentable disturbances that occurred in that country were occasioned, as well as the death of several persons who were led into the commission of political crime by persons employed by the Government. He trusted, that the subject of the petition
 1263
 Mr. Hume  had seen a petition on the subject of the outrages at Walsall which gave a different version of the affair, and from the correspondence he had received upon the subject, he was disposed to think that the outrages complained of were not committed by the Political Unionists, but by the friends and adherents of the hon. member for that borough.
 Mr. Methuen  had seen something of Political Unions in his own county, and could say, that he had never on any occasion witnessed them engaged in an act of riot, or ever knew them guilty of an incivility. If Political Unions were to be put down, they must also put down Conservative Clubs, for they were also an obstacle to the execution of the law, and wished, he believed, to take the Government of the country into their own hands. If the Political Unions offended, the law was strong enough, he believed, to put them own.
 Mr. Godson  had been misrepresented on a former occasion, in being reported to say, that the Court of King's Bench had no power to quash an inquisition. What he said was, that the quashing of the verdict on the ground of informality had in no way affected the propriety of that verdict, or shaken the evidence upon which it rested. The conduct of the Coroner, in getting the signature of the Jury to a piece of blank parchment, was most improper. It was a most extraordinary proceeding, and it placed the conduct of the Government in a very objectionable light. If the House would look into the proceedings of the law courts, within the last few days, it would see, that the verdict of a Coroner's Jury had been of the highest value to an illustrious individual, who had been charged with an atrocious offence. In the proceedings of which he spoke, the verdict of the Coroner's Jury was produced, and very properly. But if it were valuable to a rich man, why should not a poor man have the benefit of it in his case? His Majesty's Government, however, bad thought fit to deprive him of that. The verdict had been quashed, not because it was bad, but because the Coroner had introduced an informality into it. Was that right? Was it creditable? He thought not.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  assured the House that the conduct of the Birmingham Political Unionists at Walsall was in every respect orderly and good, and that the statement regarding them made by the hon. member for that borough was most unfounded. This he undertook to assert from his own observation, having been in Walsall at the time. Not 1 s
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that, although he did not assume the high character of an apostle of peace, he yet was the friend of peace, law, order, and humanity. Indeed his Majesty's Government had themselves on two occasions, congratulated him on the effect of the exertions which he had used to preserve peace and order.
 Mr. Estcourt , as Chairman of the Committee on the Metropolitan Police, felt called on to say, that it would be an highly improper thing to refer this petition to a Committee which had already a mass of business on its hands, and which moreover was constituted to apply itself generally to the system of the entire Metropolitan Police. It would be imposing too much labour on the Committee. Besides, as it referred to a particular action, he thought it ought to be referred to a particular Committee.
 Mr. Cobbett  would move for a Committee on the subject, on some future day.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to say a few words, as he might, perhaps, be suspected of having organized these Unions. He wished that the hon. Gentleman had made out some harm or some mischief these Unions had done. He should like to know what they had dime to make them so distinguished. Since they had been established, there had been a great many riots in the country, but in no one instance had the Political Unions taken part in those riots. At Bristol, in particular, the Political Unions had laboured, and laboured continually and successfully to prevent, and had prevented the riots going further. What, then, had the Political Unions done? There were great difficulties and great embarrassments in the country; there were various things which they all wished to make better; there was a great deal of distress in the country, and a great deal to deplore; but would any hon. Gentleman say, that the Political Unions had produced those evils? While the hon. Gentleman bad been speaking, he had set down a few of the
 1275 l l l l l l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had a Petition to present, which, if it contained the truth, must convince the House and the people of the country, that they might now say, with the Psalmist, "In the midst of life we are in death." The petition alleged that the police were employed systematically as spies, and he (Mr. Cobbett) believed that he was in a condition to prove it. The petition was from the undersigned members of the Political Union of Camberwell and Walworth, and stated, 'That one William S. Popay became a member of their Union about
 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 The Morning Chronicle mouchards gensdarmerie 1260
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion, assumed, throughout his speech, that the Political Unions were illegal assemblies; but, from all the information which he had been able to procure on the subject, he did not think that they could, in their present form, be said to be illegal. The hon. Gentleman had, in proof of his assumption, quoted the Proclamation issued by his Majesty two years ago; but, he entirely overlooked the particular circumstances which then existed. The Proclamation was issued against those Political Unions which assumed a right to organize their members
 1273 1274
 Lord Althorp  had undoubtedly stated that he did not consider Political Unions, as at present existing, illegal; but he added, that if they were to become more extended, and to gain greater power in the country, they would then be detrimental to the Constitution.
 Sir Michael S. Stewart  had heard with deep regret the observations of the hon. member for Dublin, imputing national: jealousy as a cause of opposition to the Bill. He most emphatically disclaimed any such feeling on his own part. The House certainly bore the appearance of having been canvassed, but it was not difficult to see in whose favour the canvass was most likely to be. He considered that the Bill of 1828 should not e brought forward as a pre-
 1294 l l
 Mr. Richards : The House could not be satisfied with the arguments of the hon. Baronet against the Bill, because they did not go to show that the Bill would be of any injury to the public. The fact was, it would be of public benefit. It was stated in a Report on the state of the river Shannon, in 1830, that these very improvements alluded to by the hon. member for Dublin were necessary, so that in promoting this Bill, hon. Members could not lie charged with promoting a new or unnecessary object. He recollected also that the Report mentioned some of the improvements then carrying on by the spirited conduct of this very Company, and the Bill ought to be supported upon public grounds.
 Mr. Denis O'Connor : Agreeing most sincerely in the observations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin as to the utility of the measure, he should give it his decided support. In 1828, when this measure was then before the House, the right hon. C. Grant, who was at that time President of the Board of Trade, gave it his assent; and when this Company last year sought precisely the same Bill as they at present did, no opposition was offered to it, except, he believed, by two of the subscribers to the Company, and in consequence of their opposition, the capital was not fixed at 300,000 l 1295 l
 Mr. Emerson Tennenl  said, by a paper which he held in his hand it appeared that, should the 74.,000 l l l l l. l. l bonâ fide 1296 l l. l 1297
 Colonel Conolly  said, he thought it rather extraordinary that hon. Members who, day after day, were in the habit of complaining of the influx of Irish paupers into England, should, on the present occasion, object to the Bill, which, by employing the people of Ireland, must naturally tend to relieve England to a great extent from the evil complained of If hon. Members would but consult the interests of the whole empire, they would see that the laying out 74,000 l
 Sir Hussey Vivian  did not know, until he came into the House, that such a Bill was before it, and because he thought it would be most useful in relieving Ireland that he should vote for the third reading of the Bill. Hon. Members ought to bear in mind that Ireland was peculiarly circumstanced, and that general principles could not be always with justice or prudence applied to that country. He knew of what vast importance, it was, that the navigation of the Shannon should be improved, and therefore he should give the Bill his most cordial support.
 Mr. William Roche  said, I trust that the explanation and proposition just now offered by my hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, will prove satisfactory, will conciliate any further opposition, and permit the Bill to be brought up on Monday in a shape which now appears calculated
 1298 l l l 1299
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that lie found among the Members of this intended company Judges, merchants, bankers, and ladies. He must confess, that was the first time he had known the dignitaries of the law descend to the character of traders.
 Sir Michael S. Stewart  moved the adjournment of the debate till Monday.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Bill as it stood increased the reserved sum from 30,000 l l l l. 1300 l.
 Mr. Potter  said, that when an hon. Member spoke of the company being composed of judges, lawyers, and ladies, he omitted lo state, that the principal merchants of Dublin and Manchester, who were concerned in trade between Ireland and England, were shareholders in this company. He felt considerable surprise, that objections should be raised to the investment of capital in Ireland, where it was so much wanted. He well remembered the establishment of the Company, and was sure the greatest advantages had arisen to both countries from it. This Company was established by Mr. Williams, and it was considered a most hazardous undertaking. Before the establishment of this Company, which was the first between Dublin and Liverpool, the greatest inconvenience arose to the trade. Fat cattle could not be shipped with safety, and it was no uncommon circumstance that goods shipped at Dublin did not arrive at Liverpool for six weeks, and in some instances for two months. He (Mr. Potter) had frequently bought linens in the linen-hall of Dublin on a Friday, and by moans of this Company, received them in Manchester on the Monday following. By means of steam-navigation, the drapers in the interior of Ireland now frequented the markets of Manchester and Yorkshire, which opened a new trade to the advantage of both parties.
 The Chairman  having put the first Resolution, "That it was the opinion of the Committee, that it was expedient to continue to the Bank of England for a limited period the enjoyment of certain privileges now vested by law in that Corporation, subject to provisions hereafter to be made,"
 Colonel Torrens  said, he would not occupy the time of the House with any preliminary observations. He would proceed at once to state the object of his Motion, and to explain the grounds upon which he ventured to hope that the House might be induced to sanction the proposition which a sense of the vast interest at issue impelled him to submit to its consideration. In moving, that the consideration of this question be postponed until the next Session, his object was delay for the purpose of obtaining sufficient time for the mature and deliberate consideration of this most important question. He ventured to demand this delay upon grounds established by the Report of the Committee appointed last year to inquire into the expediency of renewing the Charter of the Bank of England. That Report stated, in the most distinct and unambiguous manner, that further inquiry and more ample information were necessary, before Parliament proceeded to the discussion of this most important question. The Report contained this remarkable sentence—"The period of the Session at which the Committee commenced their labours, the importance and extent of the subject, and the approaching close of the Session, will sufficiently account to the House for the limited progress of the inquiry, and for the incompleteness of the materials which have been collected for the purpose of forming an opinion." Now, the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was Chairman of the Bank Committee, and as such, if he was not the father, he was, at least the sponsor of the Report, the Ian-
 1307 1308 l. l. l l 1309 l. l. l. l. l. l l. l l l l l. l l l 1310 l l. l l l l. l. l. l l l. 1311 l l l. l l. l l l l 1312 1313 1314
 Mr. Poulett Scrape  seconded the Amendment. He said, that the question was one of vital importance to the whole community. It was universally admitted, that the banking system of the country was very defective; and surely when the Bank Charter was about to be renewed, was the time for inquiring into and remedying those defects. The Bank of England, though not the only, was the chief source of the circulation of the country. Five-sixths of the notes in circulation were Bank of England notes; and the whole amount of gold in
circulation was supplied by the Bank of England. There could be no doubt, therefore, that the Bank of England
 1315 1316 1317 l. l. l l s l s d 1318 l 1319 * * 1320
 Mr. Attwood  said, that the present question, for no other reason that he could imagine, except because it was exceedingly complicated and difficult to decide, was almost the only one of any importance which the noble Lord had not got rid of by alleging that it was impossible to consider it in the course of the present Session. In vain had hon. Members brought forward propositions of the deepest interest to the community—such, for instance, as the proposed repeal of the Corn-laws; the noble Lord's cry was constantly "Postponement." Now, however, at the close of the Session, he had found out that the public interest required this question should be disposed of without delay. Was it possible, he asked, at that advanced period of the Session, when Ministers themselves were exerting all their influence with their friends to postpone their motions for the present, to bestow upon this momentous question of the renewal of the Bank Charier that attention which all its importance, in reference to the monetary and commercial dealings of the country demanded? The question was of itself of a most complex character, but in addition, the noble Lord's scheme contained other topics of great practical importance, each of which would require as much time for a proper investigation as could then be possibly exteuded to the whole of his measure. There was, first, the important question of increasing the paper circulation of the Bank of England; there was next the still more important question of making the notes of the Bank of England a legal tender for the notes of country bankers. Then there was that part of the noble Lord's plan which avowedly went to extinguish, not, it was true, at one blow, but gradually, not only all our country banks, but those joint-stock banks which were established in 1826, on the faith, and, indeed, pressing solicitation, of the Government and the Legislature; and there was besides the question of the terms of the bargain which the noble Lord had made with the Bank of England on the part of the public—questions which, on the face of them, involved the most controversial and important principles of our monetary system, and thence involved the well-being of our manufacturing, agricultural, and commercial interests, which, as they stood in the noble Lord's Bill, in-
 1327 versus 1328 l l l l l. s s d l s. l l. l 1329 l. l l l l l l l 1330 l l
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that the question was, whether they should take the subject of the renewal of the Bank of England Charter into consideration at present, or postpone it to a future period. Though he thought that many of the Resolutions were contrary to his interests as a country banker, he did not consider it in that light, but looked to it as a great measure, in accordance with the interests of the country. At a future stage, he would endeavour to show that some parts of the measure were prejudicial to the public interests; but the subject having been now introduced, and having excited from one end of the country to the other the deepest interest and attention, he thought that nothing could be more prejudicial to one party or the other than delay. He was quite sure, that the interest of all parties would be best consulted by the House coming to a clear and decided opinion on the main principles of the Resolutions. Though the period of the Session was late, and there was a great deal of business on hand, yet there would be plenty of time to discuss the principles of the Resolution, in order that the country might know what were the feelings and intentions of Parliament respecting them. Nothing could be more prejudicial to the country bankers than to leave them in a state of suspense for nine or ten months respecting the opinion of Parliament on this question. He would not then enter into the Resolutions, but in supporting the Motion for their considering them and voting against the Amendment, he must be understood as not pledging himself to vote for all the Resolutions themselves. He reserved to himself the right to discuss and oppose them in Committee.
 Mr. Foster  had no objection to the first part of the plan, but he had great objections to establishing local banks with partners of limited responsibility. He had also great objections to make to that part of the plan which went to make Bank of England notes a, legal tender. It was
 1348
 Major Handley  said, whether the plan proposed by the noble Lord were for good or evil, he had come to the conclusion, that it was necessary at once to consider the question. Whether the plan would enlarge or contract the currency he did not know, but he knew that to leave upon the country the  incubus
 Mr. Baring  had followed this subject closely, and had attended diligently to its history, and he could not reconcile it to himself to allow it to go to the vote without offering a few observations to the House. There was a great diversity of opinion on this subject; and as it was one which might be discussed without party views, those differences should convince the noble Lord, that the opposition to his Motion was honest, and founded on conviction. It was impossible to look at the question, and not regret the period of the Session at which it was brought on. It was now past Midsummer, and it was brought forward for the first time. It was impossible to see what went forward in that House—at least nobody acquainted with the House, but must know that this was a season when
 1349 l question, question 1350 1351 1352
 The Chairman  said, the question was, that he should report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  declared that be was a member of the Political Unions so much abused in that House, but in no Political Union had he witnessed such uproar as he had just heard. [Great interruption] This was a question which deeply affected the interests of the Empire, and it was monstrous that hon. Members should come down to the House apparently with a determination not to listen to what was said, and to drown everything in uproar. [ Marks of grate impatience
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the noble Lord, (Lord Althorp) was, no doubt, aware that, in several of the large towns, at public meetings, resolutions had been carried against the payment of Church-rates. That was the case in one part of the borough which he represented. With a view to allay any angry feeling which might arise on that subject in the interval that would elapse between the end of the present and the commencement of the next Session of Parliament, he wished to ask the noble Lord, whether, in the Bill to be introduced for the Reform of the English Established Church, the same relief would be given to the Protestant Dissenters in this country, as was given to the Catholics in Ireland, with regard to Church-cess?
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that nothing could be more improper than that official men should engage in trade. It was particularly improper in the Post-office, where it was important that the vigilance of the clerk should be devoted to his duties up to the last moment. The practice of the Post-office with respect to newspapers sent to or from the Continent, absolutely threw impediments in the way of their circulation. In the internal communications of England, however, the matter was worse. At the present moment the most intense interest was felt in the country on the proceedings of that House, and the consequence was, that the greatest rivalry existed between the Newspaper proprietors to keep their presses open till the last moment, and thus convey the latest intelligence to their customers. The proper dealers who undertook to transmit the newspapers into the country were the news-venders, and it was literally true, as stated by the right hon. Baronet opposite, that they furnished all the capital by which it was done. Contrary to this practice, in most businesses a great sum of ready money passed on both sides. The stamp was the chief expense of a paper, and the general run of establishments tried to go to the Stamp-office with the money in their hands, whilst a very short credit, indeed, was given to the larger establishments. The news-venders in this town came with ready money to the Newspaper Office, or at furthest paid their bills every Saturday. The amount of money which they paid in this way was, perhaps, about 100,000 l 1305 d The Literary Gazette
 Mr. Richards , feeling the inconvenicnce which must result, either from legislating without due inquiry on this important subject, or from leaving the question unsettled and undecided, after the Ministers had come down to the House and proposed their plan, was in a state of great uncertainty with respect to the way in which he should give his vote. He agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that sovereigns would be at a premium in every country town at any distance from a branch bank, if the Government plan passed into a law. He was not, however, one of those who conceived that much inconvenience would arise from this circumstance, because he believed, it would bring into use a large amount of silver. He considered that part of the noble Lord's plan which related to Joint-Stock Banks to be very important. Now, it must be in the recollection of the House, that several years ago the people were not only allowed, but even invited by the Government to form Joint-Stock Banking Associations, which were described as being more firm and less liable to insolvency than banking companies composed only of two or three members. These banks had been the means of effecting a great deal of good throughout the country. The people had confidence in them, be-
 1334 l. l l l l l l 1335
 Mr. Hume  said, that after an expression in the speech of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Francis Burdett), he could not remain silent, more especially when he remembered the vote they had lately given against the depreciation of the currency. The hon. Baronet talked of "a relaxation of the currency." Why, what was a relaxation of the currency but a depreciation of the currency? If that was to be the effect of these Resolutions, he should oppose them. He agreed
 1353
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  protested against the original Resolution, but his speech was drowned by loud cries of "Question!" "Divide!" "Adjourn!" "Oh, oh!" and sundry expressions of impatience. After trying for some time to obtain a hearing, the hon. Member moved that the chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that the very great interest he felt, no doubt in common with the rest of the House, in the question under discussion, induced him to rise to deliver his sentiments upon it. The question appeared to him to be simply this—whether the parties who had for so long a period managed the pecuniary concerns of the country were to continue to do so, or whether each individual having money transactions with another might conduct them according to his own wish, independent of the control of the Legislature? The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had referred to a document which might with propriety be called an orthodox confession of faith, since it contained, like another confession, thirty-nine articles, and which had emanated from Fife-house, signed by Lord Liverpool and John Frederick Robinson. This document condemned the monopoly of the Bank; and it was not a little curious that a system stigmatized by Lord Liverpool's Administration as improper, on account of its exclusive privileges, should have been introduced for the purpose of consolidating it in the first Reformed House of Commons. Lord Liverpool and his colleague had no powers of prophecy, they could not foresee that the Unreformed Parliament would become reformed; how, then, could they have been expected to foresee that a measure so much out of fashion in an Unreformed Parliament was likely to become so extremely fashionable in the first Reformed House of Commons? And upon what grounds were they proceeding to establish this monopoly? Why, the Committee of the House which took evidence on this subject had declared their opinion, that there were not sufficient data to enable them to come to a conclusion as to the expediency of the renewal of the Bank Charter. This, then, was not, in their estimation, the right time to decide upon that question. But see how various were the opinions which were entertained with respect to this very point. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not indeed in any speech delivered in that House, but in a public document, had declared his wish to supersede the whole of the country circulation, and to substitute for it the circulation of the Bank of England;—in other words, to
 1321
 Sir Francis Burdett  concurred with his right hon. friend who had presented the Petition, that it was most desirable to give every facility to communications of the nature to which he had adverted; but he did not see any necessity for moving for the appointment of a Committee. It appeared to him to be quite sufficient to have drawn the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to the subject, who had the means of doing all that was wished to remedy the evil. It was desirable, in every point of view, that every facility should be given upon the communication.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he had a strong impression not at all conformable to the views adopted in the Resolutions generally; but he was inclined to vote for the two first, and he did not think that doing so would pledge him to support the rest. He should, therefore, give his assent to the first and second Resolutions. The right hon. Baronet, who had attempted to show that the principle of free trade ought to be applied to this system, had failed in the object of his argument; for those reasons which operated generally most adversely to the granting of monopolies might here be cited in favour of this particular monopoly. The objection to monopolies generally was, that they restricted the circulation of goods and enhanced their value. That was the very object up to a certain extent, which ought to be sought after with regard to paper currency, and therefore the general reasoning against monopolies did not apply. He was friendly to what he might term a relaxation of the currency, if that could be effected, as he thought it could, without danger to the public. He thought it might be effected in the present instance. The commercial panics which were so much to be dreaded were usually caused by the impossibility of controlling the issues of the country bankers, but he thought that that control would be established by this measure. The two first Resolutions might then be agreed to, and the others discussed afterwards.
 Sir Henry Parnell  then said, he had a petition of considerable importance to present, on which he wished to Say a few words. It was the petition of the News-venders, Agents, and Dealers in News papers, resident in London and its vicinity. It was signed by upwards of 200 of that respectable class. They complained very much of the Post-office Clerks, Clerks of the Road, and Post-masters, interfering with their trade. They said, that those clerks exercised their official influence greatly to their injury, by Incoming traders in newspapers. They possessed this influence, unlike the officers of any other department under Government, and contrary to every sound principle of trade, for every body must perceive that the filling of an official situation must give that particular class of officers a great superiority in carrying on the trade over others who were not connected with the Post-office. They further complained, that by the privileges allowed to clerks of the Post-office, foreign newspapers were charged double their prime cost abroad, and that this increased price went into the pockets of those officers, to the great detriment of the public revenue. They particularly complained, that this practice was allowed in the foreign Post-office, in respect to English newspapers going abroad, and that the circulation, therefore, of English newspapers, was very much curtailed beyond what it would otherwise amount to, in consequence of which the petitioners suffered very considerably. They expressed great regret at finding that the offers on the part of the French Post-office, to do away with the impediments affecting the transmission and circulation of newspapers between the two countries, had not met with that readiness on the part of our Government which they had expected, and which was most desirable. There would be great advantage, he believed, derived from putting an end entirely to those restrictions on newspapers, not only extending information generally, but also increasing the revenue of the country. He himself had had an opportunity of consulting the Postmaster in France, and he was ready to bear testimony to the truth of the allegation in the petition; that individual
 1303
 Sir Henry Parnell  had been a Member of the Bank Committee of last Session, and was bound to declare that the whole of its inquiry and evidence was  ex parte 1331 ex parle ex parle 1332 ex-parte 1333
 Sir Henry Parnell  presented a petition from the Joint-Stock Banking Company, established at Manchester. The petitioners stated, that if Lord Althorp's plan was passed into a law, their interest would be affected with out inquiry, although it could not be pretended that they had misconducted themselves in the slightest degree. He was of opinion, that the experiment made by Lord Liverpool, in 1826 had succeeded, and that if they wanted a secure system of country banking, they had only to let alone that which had arisen in consequence of the laws then passed, under the sanction of which these petitioners had embarked a large capital. The petitioners also expressed their anxiety and alarm at the effects which would result from making Bank of England
 1301
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he hoped he should not be thought guilty of disrespect towards the House if, at the commencement of this important discussion, he expressed an anxious hope that, for the sake of the character of the House, and the satisfactory adjustment of this great ques-
 1336 1337 1338 s. l l 1339 l l 1340 Althorp 1341 1342 1343 l l l Hon. Member l l l s. l l l l l s l s s s. l s s 1344 Mr. Hume 1345
 Lord Althorp  thought, he had already stated the reasons why he asked the House to agree to these Resolutions. The right hon. Gentleman assumed that he proposed this plan in order to avoid political panics. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman recollected the evidence given before the Committee of last Session, he would recollect that all the witnessses, without any exception, gave it as their opinion that it was not possible by any means to guard against political panics. That, therefore, was not his object. He did not expect to guard against them. He never had supposed it possible to guard against political panics. The object he had
 1346 1347
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Members who desired the postponement of the question had not adduced a single reason to show, that the House would at any other period be better prepared to enter upon its
 1322 1323 1324 l. l l 1325 l. l 1326
 Lord Althorp  said, that as his right hon. friend, in presenting the petition, had referred to negotiations that had been concluded with France and the Government of this country, it might be right for him to say a few words on that subject. In those negotiations his Majesty's Ministers had not been able to comply with all the propositions of the French government. He was not competent to enter into many of the circumstances connected with the negotiation, but it was thought impossible to agree to all the propositions. With respect to the particular point involved in the petition as to newspapers, he agreed with his hon. friend, that that species of communication should be as free as possible, and that if restrictions existed, they should be removed. The plan, however, upon which this department of the Post-office was conducted, enabled the Government to
 1304
 Lord Althorp  said, he believed the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in saying that the fee paid on newspapers, at the last half hour of admission, was saved to the clerks of the Post-office.
 Lord Althorp  could only state, in reply to the question, that the subject had been
 1306
 Lord Althorp  objected to adjourning before passing the Resolution. This was certainly a question deserving serious consideration; but after the House had been so long addressed on the subject us it had been, it was not surprising that it should exhibit some symptoms of impatience.
 Lord Althorp  said, he would only then state, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman's complaint, that the Committee of last Session had sat during the whole of the Session; that his right hon. friend was a member of it, and had an ample opportunity then of adverting and directing evidence to the facts now alleged in this petition. If, during the present Session, the House had thought proper, that Committee might have been re-appointed; but he did not think there was any occasion for it, and no proposition to that effect had been made by any hon. Member. Besides, some of the
 1302
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this frank conduct of the noble Lord entirely did away with any suspicion which might previously have attached to the Government on this subject. It was strongly asserted, however, that this Popay had been guilty of all the acts of espionage, so justly condemned by the noble Lord—that he had subscribed for arras—used inflammatory language—offered to teach the broad-sword exercise, &c. It was, therefore, essential that this subject should be sifted most searchingly; and he was, therefore, delighted, that the noble Lord had so frankly and cordially co-operated in promoting the inquiry.
 Mr. Cobbelt  said, it could be proved that Popay had done all the hateful things described. The witnesses were quite ready.
 Mr. Tennyson  rejoiced in the frank and manly assent given by the noble Lord to this Committee. It was a most important subject; lie would observe, however, that the charge against Popay was not his going to public meetings, but his enrolling himself as a Member of the National Union for treacherous purposes—using the most inflammatory language, offering to subscribe for arms, and to teach the use of them. He had in his hand a petition from 500 of his constituents, praying for the most strict inquiry into this most important and alarming case, and they would be pleased to hear how readily this inquiry was assented to by his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  submitted, that it was important that the noble Lord should make it understood what would be the effect of the alteration. Did he understand that the proposition would have the effect attributed to it by the right hon. Gentleman? For if all 5 l
 Mr. Ponlett Thomson  thought, that all this discussion arose from the misunderstanding of the object in view by making Bank of England notes a legal tender. If hon. Members would refer to the evidence before the House, they would see that in 1825 the danger of running the Bank dry for gold arose not from the demand for gold to meet the Bank notes, but to enable the country bankers to be prepared to pay their deposits. In most of the districts, the amount of notes issued by the country bankers bore but a small proportion to the amount of their deposits and engagements, for which they were obliged to provide in times of pressure, by applying to the Bank of England for bullion. It was to guard against such a danger, that it was thought advisable to make notes a legal tender, and not in reference to the amount of notes of country bankers, which bore so small a proportion to their other engagements. The fact was, that in a moment of commercial panic, the country bankers came up to London, and, as was the case in the year 1825, they asked, not simply for sovereigns to pay their notes, which never could wholly be returned on them—for he believed, during that panic, the amount of notes returned bore but a small proportion to the amount of paper in circulation—but they asked for gold, to be prepared to meet all their other engagements. Many country bankers, having a circulation of only 15,000 l. l 1364
 Mr. Baring  adverted to the varieties of opinion which were entertained on this subject, which made it extremely desirable to be very cautious in forming and expressing an opinion. It was, however, the conviction of his mind that our paper currency would not be safe unless the Bank of England paper were made a legal tender. On that ground he should support the Resolution. He understood that the noble Lord had made, at an earlier period of the evening, what he (Mr. Baring) thought an improper concession. He supported the Resolution, not on the grounds that it would operate as a relaxation of the currency, but because it was his conviction that the country could not have the full advantage—and which it was most desirable should be extended—of the circulation of paper, unless there was some security that we should not be exposed to those continual changes in prices, and those continual difficulties to which we had been exposed, and which might be avoided, by enabling the country bankers to offer the Bank of England notes as a complete payment. Gentlemen were alarmed at the sound of the Bank Restriction Act, but let them consider what was proposed. It was not to make a legal tender of Bank of England notes in place of specie—it was only removing the demand on the Bank one step. The country bankers would give
 1367 l. desideratum l 1368
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could assure the Committee, that he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the necessity of approaching this question with the greatest care. He felt all the difficulties of the question, and was perfectly ready to give every attention to the arguments which might be urged against the view of the question which he took. The right hon. Gentleman, on a former occasion, laid down, in the most distinct manner—and every Gentleman must admit the importance of it—the necessity of distinguishing between the difficulties which might arise as regarded the circulation from commercial or political causes. He wished that the right hon. Gentleman had kept this distinction in mind, but it appeared to him, that in the speech he had just made, the right hon. Gentleman had confounded them. The right hon. Gentleman had throng-out the greater part of his argument, confined himself to what lie supposed would happen in periods of excitement. He was ready at once to admit, that there was nothing in this measure to provide against political alarm; and indeed he had no hesitation in saying, that it was impossible that the paper currency of any country could be made perfectly secure against periods of political alarm, when convertible into gold. He believed, that no hank of issue was ever established in any country—with perhaps the single exception of the Bank of France—which did not circulate its paper with a view to profit; that is, no bank which retained in its coffers gold to the full amount of its notes in circulation, but yet only such an amount of gold as, upon the best calculation, it was probable would be demanded in exchange for notes. It was an absurdity to suppose that any bank—be it the Bank of England, or a country bank, or a Joint Stock bank—could keep gold in its coffers to the full amount of its liabilities. If that were to be done, lest inconvenience should be experienced in times of political excitement, all profit would be put an end to, and there would be no inducement to establish banks of issue. It was, therefore, most true, that there was nothing in this plan to secure the Bank of England against periods of political excite-
 1375 l 1376 l l l l 1377 Was not the consequence of that—the general distrust—that all the country bankers that remained solvent, but who were, from accidental circumstances, in the state of discredit you have described, were obliged to come upon you for specie to meet their engagements, and to meet the fears and apprehensions they entertained of what might possibly come upon them?—There were very extensive demands made by the country bankers direct upon the Bank; but I presume that it was equally large by country bankers upon their London correspondents. And that gold coin was sent to every country town in the kingdom?—I believe so. Did not the banks of Scotland equally fall upon the Bank of England at the same time?—Certainly. At the time that took place, was there any doubt or any discredit attaching to the Bank of England throughout that transaction?—None. Had not the Bank of England specie sufficient to meet any demand that might arise from the simple difficulty of the foreign exchanges?—Certainly, the foreign exchanges had risen, and were in favour of the country. Did not the very fact of the distress in the interior produce a revulsion of the foreign exchanges and bring money into the country?—Immediately. But, still was there no such a drain of specie from the Bank that even that return of money from abroad was hardly sufficient to meet the demand from the country?—From the difficulty of getting the necessary supply of coin from the Mint. So that, at that time, when the Bank was deemed so low, still the specie had not gone out of the country, but was in the coffers of the country bankers?—Certainly, in the possession of the public. 1378 l l 1379 agio Hon. Member: agio l agio 1380 agio agio Robert Peel: agio agio agio agio agio l l 1381 1382 l 1383
 Mr. Cayley  conceived the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. P. Thomson's) statement to be, as far as it went, a satisfactory answer to the statement of the right hon. Baronet. The question was not, after all, the affording security to the Bank of England or to the country bankers in case of a panic, but to the public, and that could only be done by making Bank of England notes a legal tender, as Ministers proposed. He, however, could not approve of the proposition to make country 5 l l l l agio l l 1384
 Mr. Ginborne  deprecated the idea of Parliament's generally entering into petty regulations, such as declaring how many branch banks there were to be. He was, however, aware of his hon. friend's reasons; and although he supported the present Resolution on grounds directly the reverse of his hon. friend's, he would have, in this instance, no very great objection to legislate similarly. One of his chief reasons for supporting this Resolution was because of its tendency to do away with part of the gold circulation. Another ground that he had was that stated by the right hon. Gentleman near him (Mr. P. Thomson), that in cases of local or partial panics, it would prevent a run for gold. That it was desirable to do away with a metallic circulation, provided the standard of value was maintained, was the doctrine inculcated by Hume, Ricardo, and Horner, as well as by the hon. member for Essex; and when Ricardo found that prices were lowered twenty-five instead of five per cent, he ascribed it to the folly of the people, who had in his opinion so secure a system, that such a desire for metal as was evinced was to him an astonishment. He (Mr. Gisborne), however, felt that in arguing thus, he laboured under a difficulty, from having before contended against exclusive privileges to the Bank of England, or any other body. In this, however, he was overborne, and he therefore hoped the noble Lord would adhere to his Resolutions.
 Mr. John Smith  commenced by praising the liberality with which the Bank of England had acted in every crisis of public difficulty, and especially in the year 1825, when such a panic occurred as, he believed, would never occur again. At that time the Bank had committed a mistake in the extent to which it carried its liberality. Now, it was the interest of every man, manufacturer as well as agriculturist, to protect public credit; and a second mistake in the Bank of England might be injurious to the whole country. This mistake, however, could not occur if the notes of the Bank of England were made legal tender. He was of opinion, that making them a legal tender would not occasion any great scarcity of gold. Though it might be true that a publican had charged 1 s l l l 1394
 Mr. Mark Philips  opposed the Motion. When he remembered that the Bank of England was in itself merely a mercantile speculation, and that it extended its circulation further, in proportion to its capital, than the country bankers did, he could not but have doubts as to the propriety of making the issues of the Bank of England legal tender. And when he saw the readiness with which hon. Members seemed inclined to adopt this Resolution, it only tended to increase his doubts; and he thought it, therefore, his duty to oppose the Resolution. He denied, that the practice, stated by an hon. Member to exist in some parts of the country, of paying labourers in Bank of England notes of 5 l
 Colonel Torrens  would have had no objection to make Bank of England paper legal tender, provided that were done on the plan proposed by Mr. Ricardo, or provided the Bank issues were on the same principle as those stated by Joplin; but he had the strongest possible objection to making the Bank of England notes a legal tender, constituted as the Bank of England was. He believed, that the whole of the distress which had afflicted this country proceeded from the mismanagement of the Bank of England. The Bank of England was bad in practice, but in theory it was worse. Their rule was to keep to the amount of one-third of their liabilities in gold, when the currency was full; but when a foreign demand came, then they diminished the gold in their coffers below that proportion, and in order to a readjustment, they were then obliged either to re-
 1398
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that with respect to the reduction of the capital of the Bank, which formed part of the general arrangement proposed to the Bank by Government, the Bank was satisfied that the amount of capital which would remain, after the proposed payment of 3,500,000 l l
 Mr. Baring  said, that as it was proposed by this Resolution, that the Government should pay back a part of the debt due by the country to the Bank, it was necessary to inquire what was the object of doing so. If the object of the Government in doing so was to make a better bargain with the Bank on the present occasion, he would admit, that a diminution of the capital of the Bank for such a purpose would be perfectly legitimate; but when he looked at the proposition contained in the next Resolution, he found that the Government had by no means made as good a bargain as it might have made with the Bank under the circumstances. That was the point in this transaction which, as it appeared to him, had not been satisfactorily explained by the noble Lord. This reduction of the debt due to the Bank began with a loss to the public of 20,000 l 1403 l l l l
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the statement which had just been made by
 1404 l l
 Mr. Baring  asked whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to decide that night upon the Resolution that contained the before-mentioned bargain? The noble Lord certainly stated with a great deal of ingenuousness, the principle of the bargain between him and the Bank. The noble Lord seemed to consider only the profits of the Bank with respect to its transactions with Government. When he looked to the correspondence lately published, it would seem that the Bank lost 147,000 l l. l l l l l l l 1408
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  could not join in the general condemnation of what was called a bargain; and he contended, that unless the circulation of the Bank was increased, and its notes made a legal tender, it would not pay a sufficient dividend to the proprietors for their capital. At any rate it would not pay them as it had hitherto done. The Bank could not be called upon to make large concessions; and he thought that the noble Lord could not obtain fairer terms than he had obtained.
 Mr. Hawes  also expressed his gratification at the assent thus given by Government to the formation of a Committee. He was, however, disposed to believe, on most particular inquiry, that the case was as stated by Mr. Cobbett. He did not exactly understand where the blame rested, but he had every reason to believe that the accusations against this Popay were matter of the most undoubted fact. Indeed, he knew persons who were fully prepared to come forward and substantiate the charges.
 Mr. Forster  concurred in the view of this question taken by the hon. Baronet, and contended that the result of an approximation to making paper a legal tender would necessarily be a depreciation of Bank paper. He greatly regretted, that such a change as this should be brought about at the present time, when we had got a sound and settled system of circulation, resting on the principle of convertibility. The chief ground for diminishing the circulation of country paper was, that a large issue of that paper rendered the exchanges less manageable by the Bank than they otherwise would be. This he denied, and contended, that the influence of country bank paper was so indirect and remote, as to render no additional precautions necessary on the part of the Bank. As to the panic of 1825, it was impossible that such a panic should recur again so long as the 1 l Revocare gradum, superasque evadere ad auras, HOC opus, hic labor est.
 Mr. Ellice  had one observation to make with respect to the calculations of the hon. member for Essex. If the Bank could make a statement of its former profits, it would be found that its capital brought five per cent, and not three per cent, as that hon. Member calculated. The opportunity the Bank had formerly of realizing those profits no longer existed.
 Mr. Grote  said, he must admit that up to a short time ago this measure met with his concurrence; but subsequent inquiry had convinced him that it was calculated to effect more harm than good for the country. He was perfectly ready to admit, that to a considerable extent it would be advantageous in distrusting (assuming it was not carried too far) the country circulation; but there would be no advantage at all if the feeling should be carried, as possibly it might be, to a distrust even of the circulation of the Bank itself. The measure did not give the means, as he once believed it did, for maintaining what he might term the retail circulation of coin. On that ground he must withhold his assent from it. He admitted that from the competition which would arise amongst the country banks, gold would be extended over many of their localities; but he doubted if it would be so to a proper extent all over England. There would not be, in his opinion, an adequate supply of specie over the poor districts as well as the rich ones. In fact, there would be a certain commission charged on gold over that which would be demanded for notes. This had been the case in Manchester on the establishment of the branch bank, to the extent of one-eighth, and the knowledge of the fact had tended materially to alter his views upon the subject. It would prove a great hardship on the poor and remote districts, more especially those far removed from a town where there was a branch bank. A further reason for his present view of the subject, was, that by the working of this clause it would have the effect of hindering small depositors—men who had their thirty or forty pounds—from carrying gold to the country bank. They took it there now because they knew they could have it back
 1390 1391
 Mr. Robinson  said, with respect to the two last Resolutions, the noble Lord's (Lord Althorp's) object, he supposed, was to avoid any discussion upon them until those more immediately affecting the renewal of the charter were completed; but as there was a greater diversity of opinion upon those two Resolutions than on all the others, he would suggest their withdrawal altogether, in order that the others might be proceeded with. At present those two Resolutions would greatly embarrass the question of the renewal of the charter, and it might, therefore, be difficult to get through them this Session. He could not see what necessity there was, in discussing the renewal of the charter, to consider all the circumstances respecting Joint-stock Banks. The latter, he would submit, had better be left for discussion early in the next Session.
 Mr. Robinson  denied, that the cases of Lord Stanhope's Bill quoted by Sir J. Wrottesley had any application to present circumstances. Formerly notes of every description were received in payment, but by this measure all sums of 5 l * 1397 l.
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with his right hon. friend, the Vice President of the Board of Trade, that in case of an internal commercial panic, arising from the temporary discredit of country bankers, there would be a great benefit in their being enabled to meet a run by means of Bank of England paper. This, however, was the only argument in favour of the present measure; but he did not think this a sufficient argument for so great a change, which had only this one leg to stand upon. It was not, in his view, enough to show that such a change was merely calculated to meet one species of difficulty; and if it was admitted, as it was, that a sound circulation was a subject of the highest consequence to the country, then, when a change was made, care ought to be taken that it should be so made as not to alter the habits and associations of the people, nor infringe upon the security felt by them in that circulation. But by the present measure they were about to change that security, for the metallic standard would be affected by it. In all other institutions, whenever a change was operated, they were fenced round with securities, to prevent the possibility of danger, without relying on the intrinsic benefits to result from the change. He, therefore, would found the metallic standard on the habits and feelings of the people—they should be accustomed to weigh and to feel what they possessed, so that when an attempt was made to remove this, he would have the people so wedded to it as at once to revolt
 1385 in republicâ Platonis 1386
 Mr. Warburton , with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet on a former occasion, and with a view to prevent the issue of notes for 5 l s l l l l. l. l. l
 Mr. Herries  begged to ask the noble Lord, before the House divided, whether the plan now proposed was to be permanent, and whether measures were to be taken to oblige the Bank of England to retain the present number of Branch banks?
 Mr. Richards  also supported the Resolution, and he did so on the ground that it would tend to check panics arising either from political or commercial causes. It was well known that many bankers kept 50,000 l l 1389
 Mr. Hume  thought, that if the third and fourth Resolutions were to be discussed together, it would be better to defer them; and he would take that opportunity of saying, that the bargain with the Bank was a most profligateone, and that the Bank had its monopoly continued to it absolutely for nothing. The third Resolution might be passed  pro formâ
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  remarked, that that was no reason why a better bargain should not be made, for the Bank were not in a worse condition than the rest of the country in this respect. He conceived the bargain which had been made by the Government with the Bank was most monstrous; they had, in fact, made themselves partners with the Bank, but possessed no share in the management of its concerns and none of its profits.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that the noble Lord appeared to be more anxious for the interests of the Bank than for those of the Exchequer, over which he presided. One of the noble Lord's reasons for reducing the debt to the Bank, was that the money had been lent at a low rate of interest. Now, if the interest was lower than the market rate, the Exchequer would be a loser  pro tanto
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  supported the Resolution. He said, that some people were of opinion, that every liability should be as easily convertible into gold as possible. He was of a contrary opinion. He thought, that it might be advantageous to throw some obstructions in the way of converting responsibilities. The promise to pay in gold was one which could not be fulfilled; and it was the business of the Legislature to take care that debts should be ultimately paid. He thought, the present clause would tend to that, and, therefore, he supported it.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  remarked, that they should have some explanation as to the manner in which this returned capital of the Bank was to be employed. If the Bank should be driven to employ a portion of its capital that was now in the hands of Government, in some other direction, it might lead to risk and to those fluctuations which were so mischievous.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  thought, that this was a question they ought to put to themselves—namely, whether any sufficient inducement was shown to them to make so great a change as was now proposed? And also, was there any one who could contemplate the right of any man possessing a note to demand gold, and not tremble when he heard that Bank of England notes were now to be made a legal tender? Would such a course not shake men's habits, and perhaps injure what ought to be the legal security of the country? He admitted, that the amount of gold in circulation was not likely to be diminished by this measure. Country bankers would now not have that necessity to make a store to
 1387 pro tanto l l l
 Mr. Blamire  expressed a hope, that as so much depended on the judicious settlement of this question, it would receive the most serious consideration. He trusted, therefore, that hon. Members from all parts of the country would state what were likely to be its effects in those places with which they were best acquainted. On these grounds he would say a few words as to what he thought would be its effects in the northern parts of the country, in which he considered that it would be productive of no advantage whatever to the country banker, and would be a serious inconvenience to the community. He could not but regret, that the noble Lord had not brought his plan to some perfect form before he submitted it to the House, which was thus inconveniently called upon to pronounce upon a part of the plan before it was made acquainted with the whole. That part of the measure which would tend to diminish the circulation of country notes, and to substitute those of the Bank of England, would be found greatly inconvenient to the people of some of the northern counties, where they had a strong objection to Bank of England paper, and preferred country paper, as they had much less difficulty in detecting forgeries of the latter than of the former. One effect of the plan would be, that the demand for gold in the northern counties would be increased, instead of being diminished, for those who now took country notes were satisfied with them, as being better able to detect any forgeries of them, but now, if the circulation of those notes was limited, they would seek for gold rather than take Bank of England notes, with which they were not acquainted.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he did not rise for the purpose of stating at the present moment what his sentiments were with respect to the Resolution proposed by the noble Lord, but to show the House what weight ought
 1388 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he hoped, that before the noble Lord moved the order of the day, the noble Lord would allow him to move for a Committee to inquire into the allegations of the petition he had presented on Friday.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the great objection which he had to the change proposed by this Resolution was that a case of necessity had not been made out; and he thought, such a change was not to be justified but by absolute necessity. The evidence on the subject went against, rather than in favour of, its necessity. He had been on the Committee on the state of our commerce, and had, therefore, had opportunities of inquiring into the subject, and, he was convinced, that the currency of the country as it at present stood was sufficient for the necessities of the country. He objected to the Bank of England because it was a monopoly. If there were other large establishments, the rivals of each other, he would not object to making the paper of that Bank which had shown itself deserving of the public confidence legal
 1399
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, that if a panic arose from a distrust of paper money, it could not be cured by a tender of paper money. The people in such a case wanted gold, not paper, and an offer of paper would increase rather than diminish the alarm.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that this was one of the most important subjects that had ever come under the consideration of that House. It was one which at different times had occupied the attention of some of the greatest statesmen of modern times, who, differing in most other points, concurred in that of the impolicy of making Bank of England notes a legal tender. Both Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox had disclaimed the intention of making Bank of England notes permanently a legal tender. Even after the restriction of 1797 it was not
 1395 * * 1396 * l.
 Sir John Wrottesley  would not now discuss that important point, whether Bank of England notes should be made a legal tender. Certainly it was not called for by the country bankers. He did not speak in their name; but he must say, in his own opinion, it would not be beneficial. He thought it would tend, in the opinion of the public, very much to depreciate the country bank-notes, if it was known that those notes could not be paid in the way in which they had hitherto been paid—in gold. He could not agree with his hon. friend, that the measure would be of any advantage whatever to the country bankers. As was stated by the right hon. Gentleman, their notes were not numerous; and on a panic, the deposits were not called for. Country bankers could not give interest on the deposits made with them, and, at the same time, have gold ready to pay those deposits at a short notice. He was sure that no prudent country banker would ever take deposits without an engagement that they should not be removed except after a certain notice.
 Sir George Phillips  said, the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten that when the run on the Bank of England was made in 1826, the 1 l l l l l l 1365 l 1366
 Sir George Phillips  was understood to say, that one-eighth per cent was paid in Manchester as an agio for gold before the establishment of the branch banks.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the argument was, that the abundance of small notes stimulated undue speculation, and that an issue of one and two pound notes had the effect of encouraging the departure of coin from the kingdom, and whenever a crisis arrived, whenever there was a commercial panic, all the deposits were immediately demanded in gold, because the depositors had no confidence in a paper currency. But his hon.
 1369 1370 l. l s. l l l l 1371 l l l l l 1372 l l l l 1373 a priori 1374
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the hon. Gentlemen need not be alarmed—no demand would be made on the country banker which the country banker would
 1363 l
 Sir Robert Peel : I am sorry if I have shaken the noble Lord's confidence in his own proposition, which I most certainly cannot think he has well considered. Nothing could be so absurd, as that a man presenting a 5 l l
 Sir Robert Peel : If he takes them separately then?
 Sir Robert Peel : If I rightly understand the noble Lord, he means that for every 5 l l
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that although the discussion in which the Committee was at present engaged might be more appropriately taken upon the 4th Resolution, yet, as the present Resolution was so much connected with it, he thought the time of the House would be saved by having that discussion now. It was to be remarked, that in all the Reports of the Committees that had sat with regard to the Bank, the amount of the debt due by the public to the Bank had been always taken as the security for the public—as the grounds for its confidence in the Bank. It was so in the Committee of 1797, and so likewise in the Committee of 1819. The debt of 14,000,000 l l 1405 l l pro tanto Althorp pro tanto l l l l l l. 1406
 Mr. Clay  thought, that the manly and noble conduct of the hon. member for London, in thus frankly avowing what he now considered to be an error of opinion, was above all praise; and instead of detracting from his character for talent and judgment, would only increase his deservedly high reputation. With respect to the plan which the Government had proposed, he thought the noble Lord had altogether failed, both in showing that there was any difficulty or danger in the present system, and that the proposed plan would obviate it. The noble Lord had shown no necessity for such a change in our monetary system, and in his opinion, no such panic as that of 1825 was likely again to occur. He believed, that the plan of the Government was not calculated to obviate any real danger; but he feared that it was likely to create some. He thought that they incurred danger, in infringing on the principle of the convertibility of Bank paper; and he should oppose that part of the plan most decidedly. Country banks had already sufficient facilities for circulating their paper; the issue of it was favoured by several different circumstances. He knew that there were instances in some of the manufacturing districts in which manufacturers paid their men in a body, so that they might give among three or four men one 5 l s name 1393
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the change in the hon. Member's opinions had taken place since the evidence he gave before the Committee on the Bank Charter, and certainly the hon. Member had little right to find fault with his (Lord Althorp's) opinions, since those opinions had been much influenced by the suggestions of the hon. Member, as given in that evidence. The noble Lord then referred to some answers of the hon. Member, given to the Committee, to show that, in those answers, the payment of country bank-notes by Bank of England notes had been recommended. The hon. Gentleman, however, now said that, since giving that evidence, other circumstances coming to his knowledge had altered his opinions, and especially the fact of the commission paid for gold in Lancashire since the establishment of the branch hanks. He must say, that he could not agree with the hon. Member in supposing that the poorer districts of the country would suffer from this measure—indeed, he believed that all the evils anticipated by the hon. Member as likely to occur in such districts would be prevented by the competition among the country hankers. The hon. Member had supposed that the poorer classes of tradesmen in the country would dislike to place coin in the hands of the country bankers, because they would not be able to draw it out again. Now, though they would not, under this Bill, have exactly a legal claim to draw it out again, yet, if there were two banks in one place, and one was ready to pay, when required, in gold, and the other was not ready to do so, that difference in their mode of dealing would make the people select one of these banks in preference to the other, and that selection would cure the evil. He believed, that the anticipated evils were never likely to be felt, except in times of great difficulty, and against such occasions the measure had endeavoured to provide. In times of difficulty it was of the greatest possible importance to increase the security of the Bank of England—and times of difficulty, like those of 1825, might again occur. But then, said the hon. member for Bridport, the effect of this measure must he to tend
 1392
 Lord Althorp : No, no.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in moving the second Resolution, he begged to state to the Committee an alteration he proposed to make in his plan—an alteration which he did not think of much importance, but which he was willing to make, to meet the apprehensions of those who were afraid that from payment in gold being obtainable solely in London for notes of 5 l l. l
 Lord Althorp : Not in the same day, for that would occasion a serious run upon the Bank. I do not apprehend any such thing would occur; but if the effect of the alteration would be to destroy the effect of the Resolution, I shall not persevere in it.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the introduction of this subject was rather irregular, but he was very glad that it had been mentioned, as he wished to set the House right on the subject. He fully agreed with the hon. Member, that the employment of spies, such as was practised abroad, was a most abominable system, and he was sure would not be for a moment supported by the House; but the question was, whether it was not only allowable, but even the duty of Government, to ascertain what took place at public meetings. Private espionage was a system never contemplated by the right hon. Baronet, who was the author of this force, nor by his successor in office; and he was sure that the two Gentlemen at the head of this force would never sanction so abominable a system. All the meetings at which the police had been present were essentially public meetings: at these meetings it had often occurred, that most inflammatory language was spoken; and he must submit, that Government
 1360
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the man Popay denied the inflammatory language, the subscription for arms, and the offer to teach the use of them. All he said lie had done was, to throw a few half-pence into a hat which was carried round for some subscription, but the object of the subscription he was not aware of. He also denied being a member of the Political Union. He would take care that the Committee should be appointed in the course of the evening.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the right hon. Baronet had said, that he (Lord Althorp) was reducing the capital of the Bank at the same time that he was increasing their liabilities. He would first observe, that in 1797 the amount due by Government to the Bank was 6,000,000 l l l l l l l l l l. l l l. l 1407 l l.
 Lord Althorp  stated, that he thought he had already answered the questions satisfactorily at the desire of other hon. Members. However, as it would appear that he had not made himself perfectly intelligible to the House, he was ready to repeat what he had stated first, in answer to the hon. member for Whitehaven, as to the duration of the arrangement. The hon. Member had asked him whether it was to be considered as permanent or otherwise? He had stated, in answer to this, that the hon. Gentleman must be aware that this was a regulation, not for the benefit of the Bank, but for the benefit of the public. He added, that as it was proposed to insert in the Act of Parliament that it was intended to renew the Bank charter for a period of twenty-one years, it followed, that the regulation could not, under that Act, exist beyond the terra fixed for the maintenance of the charter. With respect the possibility of the arrangement being
 1400 l l
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that he thought that the amount of debt which would remain due to the Bank after the repayment of twenty-five per cent which Government proposed to make upon it would afford ample security to the public. It was, no doubt, most desirable that an adequate security should remain for the public, in the shape of debt due by the Government to the Bank, but he was of
 1402 l.
 Lord Althorp  remarked, that the bargain which had been made with the Bank would come more conveniently under discussion when the next Resolution was before the Committee. In proposing the reduction which the Government proposed in the capital of the Bank, he conceived that it would be effected upon advantageous terms for the public at present, considering the state of the money-market. It was impossible to foresee what changes might take place in the money-market hereafter, and that consideration of course had been taken into account in making the bargain which he had made with the Bank. He did not think that, all circumstances considered, he could have made a better bargain for the public.
 Lord Sandon  observed, that the object of Government appeared to be to relieve country-bankers from the necessity of procuring gold in the event of a panic, by making Bank of England paper a legal tender in the counties above a certain amount (5 l l l
 Colonel Evans  said, a great outcry was raised against a graduated Property-tax, as a measure of spoliation, because the proportion was to vary; but there was a species of tax in which a graduated scale was adopted, and which hon. Members did not appear to look upon as a measure of spoliation, he supposed, because it was graduated inversely as the property of the payers, and operated, consequently, in favour of the rich. He spoke of the Window-tax, with respect to which he had heard no cry of spoliation raised. The question of the continuance of that tax was one of great importance in London and Westminster; and since a graduated scale was considered so heinous, he hoped that consideration would operate with hon. Members in the case of the Assessed-taxes.
 Mr. Maxwell  expressed his hope, that the noble Lord at the head of the Exchequer would review the opinion which he entertained of the superior eligibility of direct as compared with indirect taxation. Although he was favourable to the principle of the proposition of the hon. member for Sheffield, he could not vote for it, because he, thought it was much too late in the Session to entertain such a question; but he trusted that it would be brought forward again early in the next Session; and that in the meanwhile his Majesty's Ministers would consider the subject with all the attention which its importance demanded.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley : That might be so; but still it was true, that this sort of interference, so favourable to the rich and unjust to the poor, was the work of the Irish Parliament. In answer to the observations thus made on the evils of the system of tithes, and in answer to a question from Mr. Croker, he (Mr. Stanley) had said, that the object the Government had in view was, "the extinction of the present system of tithes." The Report of the Committee, too, said, that tithes were to be exchanged for a commutation on land, or for a charge on land. It was quite impossible that the public should have been misled by such an expression, uttered under such circumstances. The promise he then held out had been strictly fulfilled by the introduction of a measure which had got rid of the objectionable parts of the former tithe-system, and had virtually converted tithe into what the hon. member for Waterford wished to see substituted in its place—a system of Land-tax. Tithe had been converted into a charge on land—and in what respect did it differ from a Land-tax? He admitted, that the present system of tithes had been the parent of much misery in Ireland; but in what manner? It was in their mode of assessment, in the various modes in which they were collected, and in all the practical details connected with their collection; and all of these objections would be done away by their conversion into what was virtually and really a Land-tax. The difference between the present system and any other must be in the persons by whom the tithes were collected,
 47 Hon. Member 48
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he saw in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down the same unrelenting disposition towards Ireland, the same inflexible determination not to concede any thing to his unfortunate country, which had always hitherto distinguished the right hon. Gentleman. He hoped, that in consequence of that speech, the Government would, in future, exclude the right hon. Gentleman from all interference in the affairs of Ireland. Ireland was not a colony or a province—it was an integral part of the empire; and he therefore, trusted that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland would take his department into his own immediate keeping, and would not give it up to the management of the right hon. Secretary for the colonies. He could not help admiring the wonderful special pleading of the Colonial Secretary. The Colonial Secretary had not, he said,
 49 latitats 50 s s 51
 Mr. Lefroy  did not rise for the purpose of entering into a discussion of the general question involved in the proposition submitted to the consideration of the House by the hon. member for Waterford, as it seemed to be admitted on all hands that this was not the time for a consideration of the subject—but he could not permit the observations of that hon. Member, nor those which fell from the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) in reference to the alleged number of benefices in Ireland, in which it was stated there was neither a church nor a resident clergyman, to puss without a reply. The hon. member for Waterford stated, that there were 649 parishes in Ireland in which no incumbent resided, and in which there was no church. The Representation made by the hon. Member in respect of parishes was calculated to mislead the House, inasmuch as many hon. Members might be induced to believe, that all these parishes were benefices—that there was this number of benefices in Ireland in which there was no resident clergyman. He challenged the hon. Member to state the name of a benefice in which no clergyman resided. It was true that there were many parishes so circumstanced, but this arose from the fact of the revenues of many small parishes not affording a competency for the clergyman; the consequence was, that several of these small parishes were united, and the union made up an adequate benefice, amounting to between 200 l l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in Kilsheda there was no resident clergyman, though the living was worth 1,000 l
 Mr. Lefroy : The statements of hon. Members, supposing them to be correct, fell very short of the representation made, namely, that there were 649 parishes so circumstanced. There might be so many parishes in Ireland, in which there was no church, but he would venture to say that they were either united with other parishes
 52
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not object to the principle of the first Resolution, because he believed it was copied from the Report of the Tithe Committee, to which he himself had agreed; neither could he deny that tithes had been the fruitful parent of misery and ill-will in Ireland; but the question was, whether the evils which had arisen from this source, were not now about to be got rid of by the measure which the Government had introduced. In fact the hon. member for Kildare had already stated, that last year a Bill was introduced which would have the effect of converting tithes into a tax upon laud, and, therefore, of putting an end to the misery. But, before entering on that question, he must say a word or two on the often misrepresented expression of "extinction of tithes." Having done so now, he should consider it as done once for all, and never would enter on the question again. He begged the attention of the House to the occasion on which that expression was used, and the circumstances attending the use of it. The hon. member for Wicklow, who had introduced the debate on that occasion, had said, that 'The system of tithes was unjust in prin-
 46
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to be allowed to say one word in reply. Nothing could be more untrue than that extortion was employed in collecting the money alluded to. He would, in the strongest terms consistent with the dignity of that House, deny the charge. Nothing was ever asserted so little liable to credit as the statement of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Walker  said, that he was surprised, and that he saw with regret, that any one should jest upon and treat lightly, as had been done that evening, the atrocious murder committed by the yeomanry at Newtown Barry.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought, if any alteration were decided on, that the plan proposed by his hon. friend (Mr. H. Tracey) and supported by the evidence of Mr. Hopper, must be admitted to be best. He objected to the first Resolution, because he did not feel the inconvenience in point of unwholesomeness, or inadequacy for the despatch of business, of which it complained. The present House of Commons was sufficient for all the purposes for which it was wanted, and they could not remove it from its present situation without moving the House of Lords with it, and that was quite out of the question.
 Mr. Tracey  defended his own plan.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that when the hon. Member came before the House as the advocate of what he termed passive resistance, he only attempted to impose upon the community, when in the same breath in which he denounced tithes, he set himself up as a vindicator of the law. The hon. Member must have calculated greatly upon the credulity of the House as well as upon his own ingenuity, if he could persuade them into a belief of the latter part of his assertion. He (Colonel Conolly) could not help calling the hon. member for Wexford's recollection to speeches made by him in that House of
 58 l l
 Colonel Davies  rose to second the first Resolution for the purpose of obtaining an opportunity to state in what respect he differed from his hon. friend. No man could be more fully sensible than himself of the defects and inconveniencies of the present building. The result was most unfavourable upon the proceedings of the House. A stranger introduced to that place for the first time, and witnessing the disorder which prevailed, and the undignified conduct of Members, would naturally ask, "Is this the celebrated House of Commons? Are these the master-spirits of the age?" The appearance of the House was frequently rather that of a debating-club or a bear-garden, than of a deliberative assembly. The noise was excessive, and Members, instead of attending to the proceedings, amused themselves with talking, or laying stretched at full length asleep upon the benches. A great deal of this arose from the bad construction and want of proper accommodation of the House. He could not agree with his hon. friend in his proposed site for a new House of Commons, and thought that an entire change of situation, to St. James's Palace, for instance, would be advantageous, and infinitely more convenient to all Members who were not of the legal profession. The hon. and gallant Member referred to the
 63
 Major Beauclerk  was convinced, that the burthens of the country could be effectually lightened only by an extensive and real reduction of taxation. If the House of Commons did not speedily compel such a reduction, instead of receiving the gratitude, they would incur the contempt, of the country. Every honest man in the House—every well-wisher to the public good—ought to exert himself at once to relieve the people from direct taxation; and he hoped the result of the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, for the Repeal of the House and Window-tax, would redeem the character of Parliament. They had now been sitting for five months; and the hon. Gentlemen who had been so lavish in their promises on the hustings, had done nothing to carry those promises into effect. He trusted, however, that, late as it was, Members would see the necessity of doing their duty.
 Mr. Tower  would strongly recommend a Property-tax, were it not that the agricultural interest was in such a condition as to be utterly unable to bear such an impost. There was reason to fear that it would soon be in such a state that no rents would be paid at all. He must complain of the unequal treatment of agricultural and funded property since the peace; the former had been subjected to heavy burthens from which the latter
 36
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the moment the hon. member for Oldham had expressed his opinion that a graduated Property-tax was confiscation, the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer seized upon it, and had ever since put it forward in reply to any arguments which were used for imposing a tax upon property. To have recourse to that argument on the present occasion was not fair; but he had too often seen on the part of official Gentlemen, a disposition to steer clear of the point before the House, and, if possible, to cast incidentally some groundless imputation on their opponents. Hence, if any one spoke of reducing the Church Establishment, he was accused of wishing for spoliation; and if he hinted at a reform of the financial system, he was directly taunted with aiming at the confiscation of property. Nevertheless, he was not disposed to retreat from the opinion which he had expressed in favour of a graduated Property-tax. What was a graduated Property-tax? A system which would compel persons to contribute to the burthens of the State in a degree correspondent with their means—nothing more. He could not conceive how it was, that persons so glibly subsided into the opinion, that a tax of this description was confiscation. He would suppose that a graduated Property-tax were imposed upon this scale—a man with 100 l l l l l l l l l l l l 33 l l l l l bonâ fide 34
 Mr. Littleton  did not think it necessary to enter into any lengthened reply to the observations of the hon. Gentleman; for although he would be the last person to object to any hon. Member bringing forward any measure for the removal of Irish grievances, yet he could not but express his opinion, that the present was a most inconvenient opportunity for the introduction of these Resolutions. He would beg to ask whether any one subject had occupied so much of the time of the House as this very one of Irish tithes? He thought not; for not only had it been discussed on the Coercion Bill most fully, but the other day upon the Church Temporalities Bill, when his noble friend, (Lord Althorp) had given every opportunity to hon. Members to make any proposition they thought proper, as well as given notice subsequently of a resolution relative to the application of the tithe bill to lay impropriations. There did, therefore, appear no necessity for the present motion at this period of the Session. Far was he, however, from asserting, that upon some future occasion it might not be for the benefit of the empire at large that other measures should be introduced; but he must also say, that in the next year we, should be in a better situation to come to a calm judgment upon
 41
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  observed, that they were told that the law must be enforced with respect to tithes as with respect to other property. There was one
 42
 Mr. Shaw  said, it was a mistake to suppose that any measure for the permanent arrangement of the system of tithes in Ireland, had been announced by the Government during the present Session. On the contrary, it was upon the very ground that the Act of last year was to take effect from the 1st of November next, that the Government had proposed an adjustment of the tithes of 1831, 1832, and 1833, by means of an enactment limited to that specific object, and to that particular period. The observations of the right hon. Secretary were certainly liable to misconstruction, and perhaps calculated to do mischief by raising expectations which it was not intended to realise. As regarded any ulterior measure relative to tithes, it was plain that his Majesty's Government contemplated none. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Littleton) appeared to him to have very inconsiderately assented to a principle frequently advanced by the opponents of the Church—namely, that no tithe should be paid in a benefice where circumstances prevented the celebration of divine service.
 55 56
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from the Merchants of London, trading with Oporto, complaining of the great loss which they had already sustained, and the injury to which they were continually exposed in consequence of the continued struggle existing for the last ten months in Portugal. The complainants stated, that they and other English merchants were in the habit of making large purchases of wine, which were deposited in Villa Nova, on the south side of the Douro, and consequently ex-
 3 l
 Mr. Robinson  supported the prayer of the petition. The Newfoundland trade would be seriously affected inconsequence of the shutting up of the port of Oporto. The very existence of the parties concerned in that trade depended upon the ports of Portugal being accessible to their produce. He made no charge against the Government; on the contrary, he believed that all persons connected with the trade of Portugal were perfectly satisfied with the steps the Government had taken, and that it had been anxious to do justice.
 Mr. Barron  rose to submit to the House certain Resolutions respecting Tithes in Ireland His Majesty's Government had brought forward measures for the coercion of the people of Ireland, but none for their relief. A bill for the latter purpose had indeed been introduced; but it had not been carried into effect. The evils which were caused by tithes in Ireland, were not evils of the present day; they were evils which had existed for upwards of three hundred years. The tithe system had been pronounced in a Report of a Committee of that House, to have been the cause, for a long series of years, of confusion and bloodshed. He wished the House to confirm that by a declaration? The next point was, would the House continue a system which had been so characterised? Another Committee had declared, that such a change alone could be satisfactory as would involve the utter extinction of tithes in Ireland, and the substitution of such a tax on the land as might be necessary for the support of the Protestant clergy. He was convinced that the only mode of allaying the great excitement and irritation which existed in Ireland, would be, to put an end to tithes entirely. The people of Ireland would not be satisfied with any temporising measure; they would never be content until the whole system was got rid of. It was by no means his wish to propose any measure that was not perfectly practicable. The hon. Gentleman referred to the evidence of the reverend Mr. Montgomery, and of other Gentlemen, in the Reports of Committees of that
 38 39 l s l s Ad 40
 Mr. Barron  had not eulogised the system, he had only given it as an instance of the interference of the State with tithe property.
 Mr. Barron  replied, that he did not know in what way he was to understand the consistency of those who, having voted on Thursday and Friday week last, for measures similar to what he advocated, should now think fit to vote against his Resolutions. The present Resolutions were moderate, and were intended for the peace of Ireland, and did not go further than the sentiments frequently expressed by Gentlemen opposite. He maintained that five-sixths of the tenants under lease in the South of Ireland would be compelled to pay this tax to Protestants by the Act of last year, and that the consequence would be a repetition of the scenes of bloodshed which had taken place in Ireland during the last century. It was that the repetition of those scenes should be avoided that he brought forward his Resolutions. He would not detain the House any longer. His plan was, to have the working clergy of Ireland paid, and to take away the sinecures enjoyed by those who had no cure of souls. However, when he called to mind the result of the division on the 147th clause the other evening, he considered it useless to divide the House on his Resolutions.
 Mr. Lambert  denied, that the Roman Catholics of Ireland had ever paid tithe to the Established Church with great willingness, and asserted that the various Insurrection Acts which had been passed against Whiteboys, Rightboys, Peep-o'-day-boys, Hearts of Oak, &c, had all originated in the hatred of the people to tithes. As this was only the second night on which they had given the subject of Irish tithes their consideration during the present Session, he would beg leave to call their attention to one or two facts connected with that subject which had not yet received the notice they deserved. They had heard a good deal of passive resistance in Ireland;
 57
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he would support the first Resolution. The hon. Member who had just spoken had said, that the present House was not unfavourable to the health of the Members. Now, if the hon. Member had attended to the opinions expressed universally by hon. Members in their private conversation out of that House—if, instead of attending to what was spoken by Members in public within those walls, he had attended to their real honest opinions expressed by them in private conversation out of doors, he would have found that it was their general conviction, that the present House was unfavourable to the health of the Members. Several of his (Mr. Warburton's) friends had lost their health, and some of them their lives, in consequence of their continued attendance in that House. For himself, he would only say, that the scats were so inconvenient, that he never sat there for upwards of two or three hours, that he was not in a
 64
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that in drawing the attention of the House to the subject of his Motion, he was fully aware of the disadvantages under which he laboured, in having to address so small a number of Members (there being about 100 only present), more especially as expectations had been raised that another subject—that of triennial Parliaments, would have been presented to them; and their disappointment at its necessary postponement, might, in some degree, indispose them to hear any other topic with equal readiness or attention. Notwithstanding this, he hoped that before he resumed his seat, he should be able to convince them that there was no subject of greater importance to the whole community, than that to which he would immediately address himself: and that there was no time more favourable than the present for entering on its consideration. He asked only their patient attention for a reasonable portion of time; and he would evince his sense of its value, by
 5 6 7 8 Hansard 9 10 11 l l l s l s l s l 12 l l 13 l s l l l l s s l l l 14 l l l l l 15 16 d 17 18 19 20 21 l l l s d l s d l l l l l l l 22 23 l l l l l l l l l l 24 l l 25 26 l 27 Hansard 28 Hansard 29
 Mr. Buckingham  explained, that the adoption of his plan would create an additional charge of 5,000,000 l
 Mr. Roe  rose to order, and trusted the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair would interfere, and not allow the discussion to degenerate into mere personal attacks.
 Mr. Hume  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice on this subject. The hon. Member began by quoting the Report of the Committee to which this subject had been referred, and which declared that no alterations could make the present House fit for the convenient accommodation
 60 l l l l 61 62 l l
 Mr. Hume  replied. The Committee could not, according to their instructions, recommend any specific plan to the House. The right hon. Baronet, instead of acting the part of a grave senator, had gone to work in a very childish way, to criticise the conduct of the Committee. The hon. Gentleman then defended the conduct of the Committee, and declared, that he would take the sense of the House on the Resolution.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that those who had incurred the debt ought to pay the charge arising from it, and that it ought not to be paid by those who had no hand in contracting it, many of whom were unborn at the time of its being contracted. The principal load of the debt ought to be borne by that property the owners of which were mainly instrumental in contracting it. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, that the labouring classes ought not to be burthened beyond their due proportion; but that the load should be borne in a greater degree by the landed property, for the protection of which the debt was contracted, although that property was now, comparatively speaking, exempted from taxation. From 39,000,000 l l l l s s l 35
 Mr. O'Ferrall  hoped, that it would be remembered, that the Secretary for Ire-land was opposed to keeping up an establishment where clergymen had no congregations, though he doubted the propriety of making such a declaration unless the colleagues of the right hon. Gentleman were prepared to act upon it. The people of Ireland had already suffered very much by the Government making them believe that it would abolish tithes, when in fact Ministers had no such intention. When the question was first introduced, if his Majesty's Government had met it fairly and openly, and had said at once: "Tithes must be paid; we can give you no relief; and we will perpetuate the old system," the people would not have been deceived. They would have known what they were about; instead of which, they had one day one thing, and another, directly the reverse. One day a bill was proposed, which contained provisions that met with the approbation and support of a great majority of the members for Ireland, and the next day, the only valuable principle of the Bill was given up. When the Ministers laboured under any little embarrassment, and wished to increase their popularity, they expressed an opinion which could not fail to have that effect; but when the emergency had passed away, it was found no longer
 43 l 44 45
 Mr. Sheil  did not wish to say anything which would add to the acrimony of the present debate, but he could not refrain from stating that in his opinion the observations of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin on the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies were perfectly justified. They were not unprovoked, as most of them turned upon the general principles which the right hon. Secretary had declared ought to guide them in legislating for the Established Church of Ire-
 54
 Mr. Cobbett  said, it was his intention to detain the House for a few moments, in order to make some observations on two points, with respect to which his opinions had been alluded to. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Buckingham) had spoken of his observations about the obligation of posterity to pay for debts contracted by their fathers. As a child in the cradle could not be considered bound to pay the debts contracted by a father who left him nothing, so he (Mr. Cobbett) did not consider the industrious classes bound to pay debts contracted before their time, and by usurping Parliaments—Parliaments which had, in fact, no right to sit in that House. He held that they were not bound in conscience or in honour, to pay such debts so contracted. As to the other point on which he had to make some remarks—the effects of a graduated Property-tax—he was still of the same opinion. He thought, that the man who had a thousand acres of laud ought to pay a thousand times as much as the man who had only one acre; but when that was once done, he thought it enough. He considered a graduated Property-tax to be a levelling measure; and its operation in thirty or forty years would be to bring down all classes nearly to the same level. Those who had had an opportunity of seeing a community in which this species of equality of property existed, would allow, that there was no reason to believe that the working-classes were better off than in other countries. The introduction of such a tax would bring on a state of society in which a house would never be built, nor a tree planted nor preserved. His understanding of a graduated Property-tax was, that every man should pay in proportion to his income, which was very far from being the case at present. He thought that the industrious classes ought to be exempt from burthens—certainly not, that they should pay more in proportion than the higher ranks. That was very much the case at present. If a man, for instance, who had raked together 51 l 32
 Mr. Peter  referred to the opinion of Mr. Hanbury Tracey, for the purpose of showing that the present House could be altered so as to render it convenient to the Members, and adequate for the discharge of public business. Assuming that this could be effected, he was averse from building a new House, at the cost of the loss of all the recollections and associations connect-ed with that in which they now sat, and which, in his opinion, were such, as no conveniences or accommodations could compensate.
 The Speaker : No one was more sensible than he was to the impropriety of personal
 59
 Sir Robert Peel  would not consent to make an alteration in the present House of Commons, on such a very imperfect Report as that which had been presented on this subject. Of all the reports of Committees that he had ever read, he would say, that this was the most imperfect, and, with
 65
 Lord Althorp  said, that hon. Members spoke of the unhealthiness of the House, but he did not know that there was anything actually in the House that rendered the sitting there unwholesome. [Mr.  Warburton
 Lord Althorp  said, that he should not have troubled the House upon this occasion, had not the hon. and learned member for Dublin made upon his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, one of the most unfair and unprovoked attacks which he had ever heard in the whole course of his parliamentary experience. He could conceive no other cause for that attack than this, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had been so often engaged in contest with his right hon. friend, and had been so often worsted by him in debate, that there rankled in his mind a sense of his own inferiority, and that, therefore, an opportunity having been offered him to attack his right hon. friend, when his right hon. friend could have no opportunity to reply, he was to be attacked whether he had given cause for the attack or not. The hon. and learned Member had avowed that his object was not alteration in the Establishment of the Church of Ireland. No, his object now
 53
 Lord Althorp  continued. Perhaps he misunderstood the hon. Member; but he (Lord Althorp) objected to increase the burthens of the country even by 5,000,000 l l l 31
 Lord Althorp  said, that he felt himself called upon to make a few observations in consequence of the Motion which had just been made, and, first of all, he could not help remarking that the hon. Member himself had given a good reason why the discussion could not then take place advantageously—namely, the late period of the session. With respect to the hon. Member's Motion, as it involved principles of great importance, though dependent upon plain statements, he thought it was better fitted to be disposed of by the House than in a Select Committee. He certainly agreed in a great part of the remarks of the hon. Member with respect to the propriety of lightening, as much as possible, the burthens which press peculiarly upon the industrious classes, and the commercial interest. He concurred, too, with what the hon. Member had said about the propriety of diminishing the National Debt by converting interminable into terminable annuities, and a Bill had just been passed to enable the Government to do that with the surplus revenue. When he looked at the amazing amount of the Debt, and at the various schemes which had been devised for effecting the object in view, and when he remembered bow impossible it was to prevent the appropriation of the funds reserved for the diminution of the debt to the immediate purposes of Government, he felt convinced that it was quite useless to attempt to make any application of the principle of compound interest to effect the object which, he agreed with the hon. Member, was extremely desirable. As soon as the reserved funds had accumulated to anything considerable, experience had taught them that they were invariably diverted to different purposes from those for which the were originally intended. It was now generally admitted that the plan of paying
 30 l l l
 Viscount Palmerston  could assure the House that this petition should not escape the attention of the Government, and he was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down for doing justice to the anxiety the Government had felt to do justice to the petitioners, but there was some little difficulty in interfering in this matter, without appearing to depart from that line of neutrality which the Government
 4
 Colonel Evans  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of the Strand and its vicinity, on the trade of the Metropolis. The hon. and gallant Member proceeded to call the attention of the House to the complaints of the petitioners as to the distress they were suffering, and which he could confirm without hesitation. It had been stated by an hon. Member, an Alderman of the city of London, that he had recently been compelled to issue 500 summonses against persons occupying houses of 50 l l l l l l 70 l l 71 l l l l l Times l l l l l l 72 l 73 l l 74
 Colonel Evans  thought, with respect to parochial officers correcting the evils complained of, that unseen influence which had hitherto operated upon them would still influence them in not equalizing their mode of rating. With respect to the reduction of 3,000,000 l
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  presented a Petition from the Master Gun-makers of the metropolis, complaining of a falling-off in trade, in consequence of the operation of the Sale of Game Act, and praying for a revision of the same, especially as regards the sale of game. The hon. Member stated, that the
 76 77
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  was sorry that he could not agree with the hon. member for Birmingham, when he made the monetary system the cause of all the evils complained of by the petitioners. The petition said nothing about the monetary system whatever; it merely complained of the Game-laws. The hon. member for Oldham had complained of the general poverty of the agricultural portion of the community; now, he (Mr. Heathcote) would say, that, as far as he knew anything of the part of the country which he represented, Leicestershire, it was never in a state of greater contentment and prosperity than at present.
 Mr. Herries  wished to take that opportunity to ask the noble Lord, whether the report which had gone abroad, that it was the noble Lord's intention to postpone that part of his plan which related to Joint Stock Banks with limited responsibility, were true or not?
 Lord Althorp  replied, that he had intended, before the Speaker left the Chair, to make a statement on this point. He begged leave to say, that in his opinion, the regulations relating to Joint Stock Banks not being banks of issue, was not the least important part of the measure he had introduced. He attached great importance to that part of the measure, though he knew that there were many persons who objected to it. He thought it was very desirable to establish safe banks of deposit in every part of the country. He was aware that the country bankers were very much opposed to that part of the plan; and their opposition was certainly not to be despised. Indeed, from all the information he had been able to obtain, he believed that they would be more powerful than he was—at least, it was probable, that they would be so powerful as to make it almost impossible to carry that part of his measure this Session. He
 83
 Mr. Herries  rejoiced to hear what the noble Lord had stated; but he would beg leave to ask the noble Lord another question. The Committee had already passed one Resolution, about which there was some doubt—that relative to the making Bank of England notes a legal tender, and that subject seemed also a fit part of the plan to be postponed. He understood the noble Lord to have stated, that it formed no part of the bargain with the Bank of England. The public and Parliament, as he understood, were quite at liberty to dispose of that question as was most proper, without consulting the Bank. He thought it a matter of regret that a subject of such great importance should be mixed up with the enactments of a Bill renewing the Bank of England Charter. If he thought that the noble Lord would adopt his suggestion, he would recommend that it should form the subject of a separate Bill. It would be more consistent with principle, for the two things were not necessarily connected, and would be more convenient for discussion. He thought, that the two subjects ought to be introduced in separate Bills.
 Lord Althorp  could not concur in the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion. He admitted, that he had stated that it was not proposed as a  bonus 84
 Mr. Herries  distinctly understood, that the measure formed no part of the bargain with the Bank, and that it might be rescinded or altered without the Bank having any title to complain.
 Lord Althorp  said, certainly it was proposed on general grounds, and it was quite clear, that it was a measure of such a description, that if it were found inconvenient, it would be in the power of Parliament immediately to alter it.
 Mr. Baring  said, he had seen with pleasure that the noble Lord would not give up the Resolution he had carried. The more he considered it, the more he was convinced that it would be useful. He also considered, that the country bankers, generally, would not object to the Resolution, and that their general hostility was directed more against that part of the plan which had been given up, than that part of it which was retained. But, though he approved of the principle, he objected to mixing it up with the renewal of the Bank Charter. There were other Resolutions of the same kind. The one relating to the Usury-laws was not connnected with the Bank Charter. He did not expect so much good from that Resolution as some hon. Gentlemen, though he was not opposed to it; but it had nothing to do with the renewal of the Bank Charter. In the correspondence of the noble Lord with the Bank, it was not stated, that these things were part of the bargain; but in the correspondence it was said, "We are going to do so and so; we are going to alter the Usury-laws;" and as the ultimate consideration, the country was entitled to have the compensation augmented. It was rather too much, therefore, to say that the Bank might not put a veto on the arrangement as far as it was concerned, if the regulation about the Usury-laws were abandoned. The principle of making the Bank of
 85
 Lord Althorp  stated, that the part of the plan which he had abandoned was undoubtedly part of the bargain. He thought, on that point, that the Bank of England might, if it pleased, abandon the bargain. The establishment of Joint Stock Banks, not of issue, and with limited responsibility, was proposed to the Bank, and the consent of the Bank was founded in part on that. If the Bank of England should consider that it had a right to abandon the proposition, it might do so, and he should have no reason to complain.
 Mr. Clay  rose to submit an Amendment of which he had given notice. He said, that he did not blame the Bank for the bargain which they had made with the Government, because they had a right to obtain the best terms they could for themselves; but it was the duty of the House of Commons, as guardians of the public purse, to assist the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, it was clear, had been overmatched. It was some consolation to him to know, that though he had the misfortune to differ from the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the 3rd of June, he agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the 1st of April last, for the proposition which he was about to submit to the House, was identical with that which the noble Lord, at the latter mentioned period, made to the Bank. The noble Lord had not stated to the House the reasons which had produced such an extraordinary change in his opinions between the 1st of April and the present time. It would, under those circumstances, be his duty to justify the noble Lord to himself, and to place him in the same state of mind in which he was on the 1st of April. The noble Lord and the Bank admitted, that the question now pending was to be decided with reference to this question—"What are the terms upon which a new banking company would undertake to do all that the Bank of England agrees to do?" He would undertake to show that a company would do the business at a cheaper rate than the Bank of England. He had no hesitation in saying, that the Members of that House
 86 l l l l l l l l l l Althorp l l 87 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 88 l l
 Lord Althorp  begged the Committee to bear in mind, that the whole statement of the hon. Member was based on the assumption—first, that the Bank of England could not make more profit on the 14,500,000 l l 89 l l l l l l l l 90 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  thought, that the only mode of dealing with the subject was to refer it to a Select Committee, to
 91 l l 92 l l 93 l l l l
 Mr. Clay  was quite prepared to withdraw his Amendment, in order to make room for that of the hon. member for Whitehaven. He perfectly agreed with the hon. Member, that the House were
 94
 Lord Althorp  observed, that even if the hon. number for the Tower Hamlets were to withdraw his Amendment, the Amendment of the hon. member for Whitehaven could not be proposed in the Committee. A Committee of the whole House must dispose in one way or another of the business before it, and could not refer that business to the consideration of a Select Committee. The only course to take would be to move that the Chairman do leave the Chair, which, if the Committee agreed to, that proposition would give the hon. member for Whitehaven, an opportunity of moving for the appointment of a Select Committee.
 Mr. Clay  withdrew his Amendment, and—
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the effect of the appointment of a Select Committee would be to supersede the whole of the arrangement which and been made with the Bank by the noble Lord; and to leave the question to be recommenced. Now, although he certainly thought that the terms obtained by the Bank were too advantageous, he begged to ask whether it was likely, if the Select Committee decided that the offer to the Bank should be considerably diminished, the Bank would consent to such an arrangement? It had been supposed by the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, that to obtain a renewal of their Charter, the Bank would be ready to do the public business for nothing. It appeared in the evidence before the Committee, however, that such readiness had been denied by one of the Bank Directors. He confessed, that he was not inclined to disturb the existing bargain. It had been contended by the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, that there would be no new difficulty in making-a new arrangement with a Joint Stock Company, to which privileges should be given similar to those now enjoyed by the Bank of England, He did not think that
 95 l l l
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that upon the whole he should express his approbation of the plan; and though the arrangements were not, in his opinion, of the profitable nature for the country that they might have been,
 96
 Mr. Baring  said, that the question the House now had to decide was, whether the bargain made by the Government with the Bank of England was of such a nature—was so improvident—that the House could not ratify it? He could not agree with the hon. member for Whitehaven, that it would be right to send this question to a Committee up-stairs, even if there were time and opportunity to do it; for such a reference would be setting a precedent that ought to be avoided, particularly in these times, when that House possessed so much power over the other branches of the Legislature. It would be a delegation of the power of the Executive to a Committee of that House, in a way that ought not to take place. He agreed with the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, that the noble Lord had made a bargain with the Bank, and submitted to conditions that he would not have acquiesced in, had he had more time to show his firmness on the question. He admitted, that the bargain was not so profitable to the country as it might have been; but then there was some necessity that the bargain should be made; and if it had cost the country 50,000 l l 97
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the hon. member for Essex had rightly called the attention of the Committee to the fact, that the question involved in this discussion was, not only in what situation the Bank would stand, but in what situation the country would stand, if that House consented to re-open the question, more especially when it was recollected, that not only had the Government made up their minds on the subject, but, what was of still more importance, that House had already resolved on adopting the principal part of the plan proposed, and had consented that there should be but one Bank of Issue in the Metropolis. He thought that the hon. member for Essex had treated the arrangement which had been come to rather too severely. The hon. Member had not looked fairly at the question. He was not called on to contend, that the sum fixed on in the arrangements between the Government and the Bank was altogether what, under all possible circumstances, should have been settled between them; but the question was, whether the Government and that House were to run the risk of the refusal of the Bank, (supposing them to take exaggerated views of their own inter-
 98 99 100 l l l l l 101 pis aller
 Sir Henry Parnell  called the attention of the Committee to the extraordinary circumstances in which it was placed. It was going to vote a Resolution which every Member who had yet spoken concurred in describing as inexpedient. He insisted that every Member who had yet spoken had disapproved of the amount of the sum to be paid to the Bank, and added, that if opinion was so strong as to the impolicy of paying it within the walls of Parliament, it was still stronger out of doors. It would, indeed, be extraordinary if the Committee did not relieve itself from this situation; for it was evidently all owing to the obstinate determination of the Bank of England to have its own way. He felt lunch disposed to support any measure which would get the Committee out of the difficulty, and which would do justice to the public by taking care of their money. It was his opinion, that instead of
 102 l
 Mr. Grote  said, that though he felt inclined to agree to the Amendment of the hon. member for Whitehaven, it was from motives very different from those which had just been expressed by the right hon. member for Dundee. He differed from the right hon. Baronet, when he said, that no mischief would arise to the commercial interests of this country from the postponement of this question to another Session of Parliament. It was his decided opinion, that much mischief would be the result, if the settlement of this question were postponed beyond the present Session. A postponement of it to next Session was not, however, necessary, because there was time to appoint a Committee
 103 104
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  felt very strongly upon this subject, as he did upon many others; but that strong feeling had reference to the interest of the public, without any regard to political prejudice. He considered, that the soundest principles of political economy had been sacrificed by the Government in the bargain which they had made with the Bank, and as such it could never meet with his approbation. Every one knew, that the distress of the public was now very great, that it was very generally complained of; and yet his Majesty's Government, while accusing their predecessors in office with a disregard to economy in the management of the public business, were sacrificing some hundreds of thousands of pounds a-year in favour of the Bank, and against the public interest. The Government should not pay the Bank while granting a renewal of the Bank Charter, but the Bank should pay the Government, ay, and liberally too, for the exclusive privileges with which they were to be invested. The country, at present, was in a state of considerable distress, and it was the duty of the Government, in every bargain which they made, whether with the Bank, or any other body of persons, to deal with them on the most economical terms for the public interest. This principle should be looked to in every case, whether in a dealing with the Bank, or in reference to the amount of salary enjoyed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. P. Thomson) himself. He was very desirous, that his Majesty's Government should delay the further consideration of this great question till the next Session. The delay could not lead to any unjust or improper excitement; on the contrary, it would afford time for deliberation and discussion, and it would enable this House, as the guardian of the resources of the country, to give the whole subject the best and most ma-
 105 No, no
 Lord Althorp  was sure that the expressions used by the hon. member for Whitehaven (Mr. Matthias Attwood) were meant only to apply to his political conduct; and unless he felt that it was otherwise, he should not think them matters of comment. He was not at all surprised at the use of strong terms by the hon. Member on this occasion. He was strongly opposed to the two bodies engaged in this bargain. He was strongly opposed to the Government, and therefore naturally enough found fault with all its measures; and he was also opposed to the Bank Directors, whom he believed to be the cause
 106
 Mr. Lyall  was opposed to the appointment of the Committee, which, in a commercial point of view, he thought would be injurious to the country. Much stress
 107 l l l
 Mr. Clay  replied. Not one word had been said which could be regarded as a reply to what he had stated. He repeated, that the whole of the Bank papers which he had referred to, and on which he had rested his case, were gross delusions. He had withdrawn his proposition, because he was informed that it would be more fair to refer his statements to a Committee, than to call on the House for an instant decision on those statements. If the noble Lord had insisted on the terms he at first proposed, he was convinced the Bank would have yielded, or if it had not yielded, the Government would have got the money to pay off the Bank in one week [" One day 108
 Lord John Russell  wished to ask, whether it was intended to appoint a Select Committee to take the place of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and make a bargain with the Bank of England, or was it intended that the Committee should lay down the rules and conditions which were to bind the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his negotiation with the Bank—he reporting from time to time the state of the negotiation, and referring to the Committee for further instructions—or was it intended that the Committee should come to a Resolution to set aside the bargain made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and see that the Chancellor of the Exchequer made a bargain according to the wishes of the Gentlemen opposite? He wished to know what was intended, because this was an entirely new precedent, and a precedent which they might expect would have high and important consequences on their future proceedings. He felt that it was necessary that the House should know distinctly what was really proposed, as this precedent would be of importance even in its constitutional bearings.
 Mr. Wason  supported the Motion for a Committee, but amidst so much noise, that it was not possible to make out what the hon. Member said.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood,  in reply to Lord John Russell's question, whether it were intended to usurp the functions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, said that the object of the Motion was to call on the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to form a Committee to consider of the whole of the terms for remunerating the Bank on the renewal of the Charter. He wished to know in what such a Committee differed from the Committees that were continually appointed to investigate accounts, and appointments, and salaries, and all other things?
 Colonel Torrens  said, that the noble Lord had asked, whether the House of Commons meant to usurp the functions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer? He would answer that question by asking another. Did the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer mean to usurp the functions of that House, and make a bargain which that House would not have the power to alter?
 Mr. Gillon : As the Committee would not consent to the general Amendment he had proposed; he would move one to meet the particular ease of Hamilton. The hon. Member accordingly moved "That the ancient boundary of Hamilton be the boundary for the purposes of this Act so far as it extends beyond the boundary prescribed by the Reform Act."
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  had been requested to support the prayer of this petition, which he did most cordially. He could not agree with the hon. member for Oldham, that the gun-makers had come forward in support of the country gentlemen. The gun-makers had found their trade so much depreciated, owing to the present Game-laws, that they could not sell any new guns whatever; and if no other hon. Gentleman brought forward any measure upon the subject, he himself should feel it his duty, next Session, to bring the subject of the Game-laws under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  could not see anything in the remarks of the hon. member for Birmingham that called for the facetious remarks of the right hon. member for Tamworth. As to what the right hon. Gentleman had said about sinecures, he would ask why lazy sinecurists should be permitted to burthen the people of England for even a short period of time? He would recommend to the House to hasten their movements, and do something effectual before the people resorted to extreme measures.
 Mr. Sinclair  observed, that the objections urged by the people of England against sinecures applied rather to the principle than to the amount. Their existence was considered by the distressed population as an insult and an injustice. The feeling entertained by a starving weaver was this:—" I am deprived of work, and destitute of subsistence; my wife and children are in a state of wretchedness; I get nothing out of the Public Exchequer, because I have done nothing for the public; but Lord A, and Mr. B, and my Lady C, have done just as little for the country, and yet they receive from the national income many hundreds and thousands a-year. Why should not the same rule be applied to them and to me? Why should they receive public money to enable them to riot in luxury, whilst I, who, in point of service, have as good a claim as they can urge, am left with my family to starve?" This mode of reasoning, which the working classes were naturally led to adopt on this question, engendered sentiments of jealousy, heart-burning, and dissatisfaction. With respect to the Committees for examining into Agricultural and Manufacturing Distress, he should expect little or no benefit from their labours, unless they probed to the bottom the manifold evils which the resumption of cash payments, and the consequent enhancement of all public and private
 82
 Mr. Thomas Attwood,  in supporting the petition, said, that he did not attribute the distress of the petitioners to the Game-laws, but to the mischievous interference of the Legislature with the monetary system. If, however, his Majesty's Government would persevere in carrying their Resolutions respecting the Bank charter—and if they would have the kindness to give us a silver standard—and perhaps they might even let us have one-pound notes—if they did this, the gun-makers of Birmingham, and the gun-makers of London, would also have plenty of custom. He believed that all the distress of the country was monetary, and nothing else.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented a petition from the Northern Political Union, agreed to at a public meeting, complaining of the distress of trade, and particularly of the distress of the labouring classes, which the petitioners attributed to excessive taxation, and praying for a repeal of all taxes on the necessaries of life, particularly the Corn-laws; it also prayed for Annual Parliaments. The hon. Member said, for his part he was content with the present House of Commons if they would but make the people happy, and again make the country what it was before—"Merry England." He had similar petitions from a parish in Fifeshire, and from Warwick. He placed implicit confidence in the present House of Commons, feeling convinced, that either under the "patronage" of the present Ministry, or some other, that some change would be made in the policy of the country, that would bring back happiness and contentment to a large mass of the people.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that having received intimation from the hon. and gallant Member of his intention to present the petition, at the same time expressing a wish that he (Mr. Spring Rice) should be present upon the discussion, agreeably to that request he had made it his duty to be so; at the same time he trusted that the gallant and hon. Member would not feel it any disrespect to him, the subject, or the House, if he did not enter fully into the merits of the petition, especially when it was considered that the subject had lately been many times before the House, and that there was at the present moment a motion on the books on that very subject by an hon. Member. He should, however, be ready to meet the statements of the gallant and hon. Member when the subject came on for practical discussion. The reason for his refraining from entering; fully into the subject now was, that he disliked entering into discussions which could lead to nothing. He must, however, be permitted to make a few observations, in reply to some of those that had fallen from the gallant and hon. Member. He thought the hon. and gallant Member had shown, if there was an inequality in the present mode of taxation—which he admitted—that the parishes themselves, if they would only look into the matter, had the means of doing justice to the Parishioners in the respective parishes. The parish officers of St. James's, above all, deserved infinite credit for the manner in which they had applied themselves to correct the inequality of taxation. He had never denied inequality, or defended it—he was an advocate for correcting inequality of taxation where it had been found to exist. The officer of the Crown had no option, but to levy according to the parochial assessment. If the House was rated parochially at a given sum, the officers of the Crown were not empowered to take less. It would, therefore, be
 75 l l
 Mr. William Brougham  presented a similar Petition from the operative Gnu-makers of London and Birmingham. In his opinion, it was well worthy of the attention of the House, and there was nothing that could be more conducive to the prosperity of agriculture than a well-regulated system of Game-laws. It appeared to him that the great defect in the present system was, that game, being a species of property, was not protected like other property. He thought that game ought to be as well protected as fowls, chickens, or geese, and other poultry. A poacher, who took out a license had a right to shoot over the lauds on which he had leave, and through him great numbers of other poachers had an
 78
 Mr. Cobbett  said, as the hon. Member did not intend to submit any motion to the House, he would only make a very few remarks. He was sure, that the country gentlemen must be greatly obliged to the gun-makers for bringing this subject before the House. As to what the hon. Member had said about the increased number of commitments for poaching, he would only remark, that it must appear somewhat curious, when the present Act was intended to put an end to them. He said, when it was before the House, that such would be its effect, and it was now seen that he was right. But the beer-shops! The hon. Gentleman could know very little indeed about the effects of beer, if he supposed it made men poachers. No, it was not the men who congregated together at beer-shops who went out poaching; it was the quiet men, who did not go to the beer-shops, who went out poaching. Then as to the sale of game, what could be so well calculated to promote poaching as this? As to making
 79
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the gun-makers of the metropolis complained of the effect of the Sale of Game Act on their trade; but they ascribed probably
 80
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to make an observation respecting this petition. As sinecures were complained of in it, and as he had no doubt that the complaint arose from a real belief that a great deal of the public money was wasted in sinecure
 81
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  contended, that the Motion of the hon. member for Manchester, (Mr. M. Philips) not only involved the interests of the town of Liverpool, but affected the security of the elective franchise in every town throughout the Empire. He knew the unpopularity which attached to an indisposition to concede Committees of this description, but he could not concur in the opinion, that it was always the safest course to grant them, when he remembered the ruinous expense which they entailed, and the local irritation which they tended to promote. They were told, that investigation was the peculiar province of a reformed House of Commons; and he admitted that they were placed by that circumstance in a situation of considerable delicacy; but he was so far from thinking that it ought to increase their predisposition to suppose guilt, which was always too great, that he thought, on the contrary, it ought to increase their caution, and make them doubly jealous of advancing a single step in cases which were not supported by the clearest and most undeniable evidence. He characterized the petition which had been presented against the freemen as a wanton and ungenerous attack upon the part of their political opponents, and as insolent in the highest degree as regarded that House, and expressed his opinion that if any real proofs of bribery had existed, they would have shown themselves in an attempt to unseat his noble friend, (Lord Sandon). The House, too, should bear in mind that no opposition had been offered to the original appointment of the Committee, upon a distinct understanding that no further steps were to be taken, if the petitioners should fail in substantiating their allegations; and yet, in violation of this express contract, it was proposed to revive the inquiry. The success of the present Motion would be attended, in his opinion, with no one practical advantage, but would have the effect of endangering the peace of Liverpool, and of every town which was large enough to contain the elements of electioneering rancour. He should, therefore, give it his decided opposition.
 Mr. Edward Gladstone  was glad to hear some hon. Members cry "Question!" for he was bound to conclude, that those who called for the question had at least read the evidence. As it was his fortune to be intimately connected with the town
 136 137 138 139 l l l 140
 Mr. Hodgson  said, that as far as he could discover from the evidence, there was no serious case of delinquency proved against the borough, and he was not, therefore, prepared to give his support to the Motion for inquiry.
 Mr. Wynn  might, perhaps, have agreed to punish the delinquency while that delinquency was fresh; but since the Reform Act, the new constituency of every town had been so mixed up with the old, that he thought, in any attempt to punish the really guilty, the innocent might suffer. It did not appear to him, that, with respect to Liverpool, there had been established any amount of corruption beyond that which was generally inseparable from large communities, in which, as must be well known to the Members of that House, it was by no means uncommon for the electors to apply to the agents of candidates to know what they might have to eat or drink; and though they might not always make that demand in perfect seriousness, yet still it was commonly made; and whether it was made in jest or seriously, if the city of Westminster were to be tried by the same test as was proposed with respect to Liverpool, it would be found that it was not much less open to the charge. He would repeat, that the demand to which he alluded was often made in jest, and when so made, he could only say, that the jest was a very bad joke.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported an extensive and searching inquiry, which he would carry not only into the conduct of elections of Members of Parliament, but (in pursuance of the order of the 6th of
 141
 Colonel Williams  said, that he had known Liverpool for thirty-five years, and had never known but two instances of Magistrates being elected on pure principles. The object at present was not disfranchisement, but inquiry; and although he was an elector of the borough, but never implicated in these transactions, he should be satisfied to be disfranchised amongst the rest, provided the other electors shared the same fate.
 Sir Henry Willough  by knew, from experience, that a Select Committee was a bad mode of inquiring into municipal corruptions.
 Mr. Wynn  was sure it was the duty of every Member to afford every facility to the progress of public business. Whether hon. Members agreed to the measures to be brought forward or not, all must agree, that it was of the highest importance that every means should be adopted which were calculated either to carry those measures through, or to have them rejected. A new proposition was now brought forward; and would it not be proper and necessary, that upon the days on which the public business was to be taken at twelve o'Clock, the sittings of the Committees should be suspended? Whatever the measures might be, it would be extremely unsatisfactory to have them disposed of, while hon. Members were necessarily engaged with other public business? They were now at the usual period at which the Session closed, and yet there were three of the greatest questions to be considered which had ever come before the House, and upon which
 116
 Mr. O'Connell  was sure, that had the noble Lord been really of opinion, at the commencement of the Session, that the system now proposed would have been the most desirable, it would not have been objected to by the House. Indeed, he remembered, that when the Irish Coercion Bill was brought in, the Irish Church Bill was introduced at the same time, and it was said, that the latter was to be carried forward,  pari passu 117
 Mr. Wynn  had no objection that a charter should be granted to this establishment; but still the House would do well, before they concurred in the Motion, to consider in whom the Constitution vested the power of granting it. By the Constitution, this power belonged to the King, and the question therefore was, would they not be interfering with the prerogative of the Crown, if they agreed to the present proposition? Me contended that not only would such an address as the hon. Gentleman called for be an interference with the prerogative of the King, but that the Motion was in itself premature, as the matter was under the consideration of the Government. He said this without meaning any hostility to the institution, for in fact he had given some proofs of the wish which he entertained for its success. But he must at the same time join in the request made by the noble Lord, merely because he thought the Motion would operate as an improper
 127
 Mr. Mark Philips  rose to propose the Motion of which he had given notice. He had no private motive in bringing forward this Motion. In a population of 200,000 in Liverpool, it appeared that there were 11,000 electors, of whom a large proportion were voters under the ancient franchise. There was still, in his opinion, a wide door left for corruption, both in the counties and the boroughs. His great anxiety was, to eradicate these practices entirely from Liverpool, and to prevent them from spreading to other boroughs. In support of the course which he was pursuing, the hon. Gentleman quoted the opinions delivered upon former occasions, of the hon. member for Montgomeryshire, and other hon. Members; and concluded by moving that a Select Committee be appointed to pursue the inquiries entered into by the Committee appointed on the 6th of March, to take into consideration the Petition presented to the House on the 21st of February, from certain inhabitants of Liverpool complaining of bribery and corruption in that borough.
 Mr. Houlddsworth  regretted, that the hon. member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood) was not in his place, as the evidence quoted showed, that an unrestricted paper circulation had increased the price of votes as well as of every other commodity. In the course of a few years the price had increased, according to the cases which had been cited, from 10 l l
 Mr. Lloyd  did not agree with those who thought the House should wait and sec whether the Reform Bill would put an end to corrupt proceedings at elections. The question was, whether the privileges intrusted to the freemen of Liverpool had been exercised by the constituency of that town to the public benefit, and not whether depriving them of the privilege would be prejudicial or otherwise to the freemen of Liverpool? He conceived that the measure about to be proposed stood now precisely as it did last Session, when it was postponed in consequence of the pressure of business. He believed, that the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces (Lord John Russell), and the right hon. member for Montgomery (Mr. W. Wynn), then promised, that if it did not pass in that Session, the measure should have their support in the next. He thought a sufficient case had been made out for probing the matter to the bottom; and the Motion should have his cordial support.
 Lord Althorp  could not agree with the Amendment. He did not see, that a person in holy orders should be disqualified. It would, in his opinion, be better that the choice should be left in the discretion of the Crown.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought they had not yet come to the time when the House would say, that ecclesiastics should not be appointed to a Board that was to deal with ecclesiastical matters. There were here six of the Commissioners already appointed by the Crown—he would suggest that the other three should be elected by the Bishops—that plan was now pursued in the lay appointments to the Board of First Fruits.
 Mr. Sheil  thought the House ought to bear in mind what the Commission might eventually have to do. In case there was a surplus, the Parliament had not yet determined what was to be done with it—it had not been determined that it should be applied to purposes exclusively ecclesiastic. If the surplus was to be applied to temporal purposes, he would ask whether it was not reasonable that there should be temporal Commissioners for applying the fund to temporal purposes. Why should it be left entirely to clerical? In his opinion, there should be the check of lay Commissioners, and he, therefore, thought it the duty of the hon. Gentleman to insist upon his Amendment, even to a division.
 Lord Althorp  thought there was very little chance of all the three Gentlemen being clergymen. On this point, the Crown ought to have unrestricted power.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought, considering the very extensive powers which, under the 68th, 69th, and 71st clauses of the Bill, were vested in the Commissioners, to deal with any surplus fund which might come to their hands, in the building of glebe houses and additional churches, and in the increase of small livings, as in this respect, a duty of a very delicate nature would devolve on them, it was very desirable, in order to raise them above a suspicion, that there should at least he some laymen in the Commission, who could not be suspected of any other object than a wish to support the general interests of the Protestant religion.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  could not approve of the constitution of this Ecclesiastical Commission. In Scotland, every matter regarding the interests of the Church itself was regulated by the Ecclesiastical Courts, but when the temporalities were concerned, they then came to the supreme civil court, where justice was dispensed. At present the power of the Crown was so extensive under this Bill, that the nomination of the Commissioners might just as well be at once vested in the right hon. Secretary for Ireland.
 Mr. Lloyd  did not contend, that ecclesiastical persons were incompetent to the proper discharge of the functions which the Commission would impose; but in order to obviate the possibility of a suspicion, that a not illaudable, but indiscreet zeal might be exercised by the ecclesiastical members; and at the same time, to secure the independence of the Board, it would be proper that laymen should be eligible.
 Sir Robert Inglis  objected to it as establishing a most pernicious principle. If the House passed it, then how could they refuse to entertain such a motion as this, if he were to bring it forward—"Whereas, the revenues of the Dukes of Sutherland and Cleveland, far exceed those of other Dukes"—[the conclusion of the sentence was drowned in cries of "Oh, oh!"]
 Mr. William Evans  thought the income of the Bishops of Ireland was much too large for their duty, and that the diminution of their wealth and splendour, woulds
 119 l l l
 Lord Althorp  remarked, that although it was undoubtedly true, that the present Bi-shop of Derry had accepted that see, upon the understanding that it was to be subject to any deductions that might be decided upon, without any limit whatever, yet, in his opinion, upon the construction of that understanding, it would not be expedient that he should be placed in a worse situation as Bishop of Derry than he was as Bishop of Killaloe. He did not object to the proposition of his hon. friend, as he had now brought it forward, but he should have given his decided opposition to it, if its effect had been to place the Bishop of Derry in the situation to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Sheil  said, he did not rise to make any objection to the present Bishop of Derry retaining double the income he enjoyed as Bishop of Killaloe. They were at once adopting the example of reducing the salaries of the Bishops; but were they aware that, while they were diminishing their revenues, they were doubling their patronage? For example, they were combining Raphoe with Derry, and, at the same time, throwing the whole of the patronage of the former into the latter, for the purpose of compensating for the reduction of the salaries. It was much better, when they had merged one bishopric into another, that instead of extending the patronage, they should convey it at once to the Crown—or even to the Commissioners. He particularly called the attention of the House to that fact. This was a Church reform, and yet the patronage of Bishops in Ireland was doubled by it. Besides, the reduction of salary was founded on the
 120 l l l
 Mr. O'Connell said,  he should resist the reduction of the Bishop of Derry's income, because he was the only Bishop who had advocated the cause of religious liberty, when he (Mr. O'Connell) was advocating the cause of Catholic emancipation; and he knew that the people of Ireland would not desire such reduction. He should certainly oppose its reduction below that of the Archbishop of Armagh.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the benefits derived by the Bishops were in the nature of income, and that was different from salary in a legislative sense; and therefore it could not be dealt with, as the hon. member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) seemed to think it could be.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  said, that the noble Lord should recollect that, when a Motion was allowed to be withdrawn, it was upon an understanding that it was not to be brought forward again.
 Colonel Wood  thought, that the House should treat the noble Lord with common courtesy. As it did not seem disposed to do so, he begged leave to move, that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Langdale  contended, that it would he exceedingly unjust to appoint the proposed Committee unless the House were satisfied that the evidence taken before the Committee which sat two months established the fact of the existence of a gross system of extensive and systematic bribery in the borough of Liverpool. It had never been understood that the inquiries of the Committee were to be directed to the expediency of carrying the principles of which the Reform Bill was founded into further effect in the borough of Liverpool. However he might regret that when the Reform Bill was in progress, its provisions were not extended in that respect it was certainly now too late to re-open the discussion on that point with reference to a single borough. Such being the case, and the only question for the House to consider being whether or not there existed in the evidence taken before the late Committee, a case of extensive and systematic bribery and corruption against the borough of Liverpool, he had no difficulty in saying that he did not think there existed any such case. In support of this opinion, the hon. Member entered at some length into an examination of the evidence as contained in the Report of the Committee, and maintained that it by no means bore out the allegations against the borough. For these reasons he should oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that there was no chance that the question could be brought forward again, when there was so much other important business to transact. He should oppose the withdrawal of the Motion; but if the House was called upon to adjourn, that was an evil he should be obliged to submit to.
 Mr. Strutt  was much disappointed by finding this was not made a Government question. The nation was much disappointed that the taxes on knowledge were not repealed. The question was, not what was expedient at the time when Lord Brougham disclaimed a desire on the part of the University to grant degrees, but what was expedient at the present moment? The hon. Baronet had called the London University a Joint-Stock Company. It might be so, but it sought no profit; its only object was to diffuse the blessings of education amongst all classes. He did not wish to depreciate the two Universities, to one of which he owed much, but he thought it very objectionable that these honours should be confined only to those of the Established Church.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the principal error which had been made by the hon. and learned Member who spoke last, consisted in his having overlooked the fact, that corruption could exist where no direct proof of bribery was possible. With respect to the condition of Liverpool in this respect, let him only ask the House whether it was not distinctly understood, when the Committee was appointed, that their duty was not confined to the examination of bribery cases, but extended also to the question of the corruption of the freemen of Liverpool generally? He could also refer generally to the evidence taken before the Committee, as affording strong proof in support of his opinion with respect to the corrupt state of that borough; and he considered it was imperative on the House to notice it. He begged at the same time to disclaim any connexion either with a disappointed faction in that town, or, indeed, with any person interested in the matter; his observations and his vote were solely guided by his determination to perform his duty to the public as a Member of that House, and by no other consideration whatever. He was of opinion, that, unless some further proceedings were instituted upon this report of evidence of the Committee now before the House, the whole of the inquiry up to the present moment must be looked upon as a farce; and with these views he should certainly vote for the Motion before the House.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that an inquiry should be instituted as to the corruptions
 143
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was the understanding of the House, that if, on inquiry, it should be found that the freemen of Liverpool had not repented of their corrupt practices, then a general investigation should be instituted into the whole of their past delinquencies. The Solicitor General and the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, expressed themselves to that effect; the latter of whom went so far as to say, that it was not intended that the Committee should confine their inquiry exclusively to the last election, but only that they should devote their attention to it in the first instance. The question, then, was, had the constituency of Liver-pool reformed itself? It appeared, from the Report of the Committee, that bribery and corruption prevailed at the last election; and he believed the desire to be bribed, as far as regarded the old burgesses, was general and undiminished. The hon. Member quoted several portions of the evidence for the purpose of showing the general expectation and desire felt
 131 s d 132 133
 Mr. Abercromby  observed, that he was an early subscriber to the London University, and he was a hearty well-wisher to it; and he utterly denied that there was anything like a bargaining speculation in the affair, or that there was any intention of starting an opposition to the established Universities. He had advocated the new establishment, because he thought it would be the means of extending the advantages of an University education to classes of persons who were now excluded from them; and also because the method was not a new experiment, but had been already practised in the portion of the empire to which he (Mr. Abercromby) belonged, and practised with distinguished success. He had no doubt that the institution would ultimately be placed in a situation which would enable it not only to hold competition with the institutions of this country of a similar nature, but with those of all Europe It had been
 129
 Mr. Nicholl  contended, that as the Report now stood no man who was acquainted with the rules of evidence in our Courts of Justice could say, that a case had been
 134 s
 Mr. Nicholl  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, after the question had been so fully discussed, the noble Lord ought not to be allowed to withdraw his Motion. If there were any Amendments to be proposed, that was the time for putting them.
 Mr. Philip Howard  had observed with regret, that whenever a case affecting freemen or burgesses came under the consideration of the House, it was very far from being an impartial tribunal. The general vagueness of the charges which had been brought against the freemen and electors of Liverpool at the last election, had compelled him to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester. He (Mr. Howard) was disposed to concur in the views of the noble Lord the member for Liverpool. As the House would have afterwards to form a judicial opinion upon the merits of the case, it would advance the ends of justice, that the Committee should be guided in the course of its inquiry by some defined rules, and not receive all kinds of hearsay evidence, which might in future, as be feared it had already, unduly bias the decision of that House.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  did not see what advantages could result from the Motion, unless it was intended to stifle inquiry. The writ of 1831 was sent down by that House, in order that the noble Lord might have a seat to defend the electors and the interests of the borough.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  contended, that the case for those who insisted upon the necessity of inquiry was completely made out by the evidence which had established the fact, that corruption and bribery had been had recourse to in all elections, not excepting even elections for Magistrates at Liverpool, prior to the period of the election of 1830.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he merely wished to express his total dissent from the proposition that the established institutions had any desire to preserve a monopoly of education. The best proof of that was, the successful career of the London University. He had no objection to granting Charters to the new Universities; but the great point was, what was to be the contents of these Charters?
 Mr. Tooke  said, he would very reluctantly withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Tooke  said, the Motion which I have now the pleasure to submit to the House is one which, I am persuaded, will enlist in its support every feeling of liberal regard for the entire community of England. It is the first step towards breaking down an odious monopoly, by affording permanent encouragement to universal and cheap education; and whatever advantages may attend cheap law, cheap religion, and cheap government—and no one is less disposed to undervalue them than myself they will be the necessary result of cheap education; and it is really—to adopt a homely adage—placing the cart before the horse, to bestow privileges upon men until they are rendered capable of appreciating their value, and of submitting to their wholesome moral influence and restraints. It would be worse than nugatory to occupy the time of the House by entering on any detailed account of the origin and progress of the University of London. Suffice it to say, that its foundation was the spon-
 121 l l 122 123 124
 Sir Henry Willoughby  opposed the inquiry. He was afraid if the House began it they might never see it brought to a conelusion.
 Mr. John Romilly,  in seconding the Motion of his hon. friend said, that the question was not confined to the London University alone, but had, in fact, relation to the rights of the public generally. It was because of the rights of the public which were involved in the question as to the propriety of granting this Charter that gave the subject importance in his eyes. The only point they would have to consider was, whether this institution was in a fit condition to receive the privileges for which it asked—namely, whether qualified masters had been provided for the instruction of the pupils, and if proper and suitable rules and regulations had been constituted for its government. In all these respects it was, he believed, in a situation for incorporation; and when it was known that the granting of the Charter had been formerly stopped at the eleventh hour, and that many of the members of the Government took a strong interest in the success of the establishment, the present appeal to the justice of the House would not, he hoped, be made in vain. He had certainly been surprised at the opposition which the universities of Oxford and Cambridge had given, and, without being at all insensible to the advantages of those learned bodies, he must say, that such conduct on their part but ill assorted with that liberality of feeling which ought to distinguish them in the face of the country. It was undoubtedly true that genius was sometimes called forth by those ancient seats of learning, but it was equally as true that talent was not un-frequently stifled in them. The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge conferred no advantage whatever upon any person who did not belong to the communion of the Church of England; but ought they to shut their eyes to the propriety of allowing
 125 126
 Sir Robert Inglis  would not have risen on this occasion if the noble Lord had placed the matter in its right light, namely, as his right hon. friend had stated, that the Motion would be an interference with the prerogative of the Crown. That was the question which  in limine 128
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not think, that the system now proposed would either facilitate the progress of business, or shorten the Session, or enable the House to break up any earlier of an evening.
 Lord Althorp  entirely concurred with what had fallen from his right hon. friend. He had thought, at the commencement of the Session, that that would be the best system to adopt, although it had certainly not been attended to hitherto. It was the system by which business was the most likely to be got through; and he would assure the House, that hereafter one subject should be taken up, and that that should be gone through with, as far as was practicable, before any other question of importance was touched.
 Lord Althorp  said, the question of a Charter was at present under the consideration of his Majesty's Government. The mere assent to the granting of a Charter was but of little consequence; the important part of the question being the terms on which the Charter should be granted. The mere granting of honorary degrees without legal honour and advantage was but of little consequence. He was one of those anxious for the success of the London University, and who thought it reflected great credit on those who founded it. After what he had stated, he would recommend the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion, but at the same time, if he persisted in pressing his Motion, he could not feel himself justified in voting against it.
 Lord Althorp  rose and said, it was the understood intention of the House to proceed that morning (at the twelve o'clock sitting) with that important measure, the Irish Church Temporalities' Bill. Hon. Gentlemen, he thought, would agree with him, that it was necessary to devote the mornings, excepting only two days reserved for petitions, to the business actually in a state of progress, in order that the labours of the Session might be finished in moderate time. He would suggest, that these morning sittings should be confined solely to the Orders of the Day, and the passing of Bills, that not only might the public business proceed more rapidly, but such Gentlemen as had Bills in charge might be enabled to prosecute their completion. He would suggest, that that clay should be appropriated, as was appointed, to the Irish Church Temporalities' Bill.
 Lord Sandon  then moved, that it be an instruction to the Committee, that inquiry should be made relative to the two last elections, commencing with that of the year 1831, whether general corruption and bribery did exist at those elections; and also for the names of the persons guilty of corruption, and the amount of the sum given to each of them.
 Lord Sandon  would withdraw his Motion, with the understanding of bringing it forward at a future period.
 Lord Sandon  thought it did not become the advocates of popular rights to visit with severity on every occasion the smallest deviation from propriety that might take place on the part of a few of the poorest voters. He asked the House, whether the whole body of electors was to be convicted of bribery and corruption on such meagre evidence, and upon such a trifling accumulation of instances as appeared in the blue book on the Table? The whole amount of bribery (giving credence to the evidence to the fullest extent) was 34 l l l l s. 142 l
 Lord Sandon  said, that the Motion for Adjournment was only made in consequence of the lack of courtesy of hon. Gentlemen. His gallant friend would, no
 144
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  opposed the introduction of the clause, as calculated to injure the curates. He thought the subject required to be introduced by a separate Bill, and would therefore state, that it was the intention of Government to introduce a measure next Session for the regulation of non-residents and pluralities, which should be equally applicable to England and Ireland.
 Mr. Sham  remarked, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Dr. Lushington) was in too close proximity to the
 213
 Sir Hussey Vivian  believed, that there were numbers of curates in Ireland in great distress, but that arose from the tithes being paid to lay impropriators in place of the incumbents. He, however, thought the present clause would do them more injury than good.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the clause provided for the cure of souls, and the noble Lord could not therefore go on the assumption that there were no Protestants in the parish. He would appeal to the noble Lord's candour and fairness whether it was just that the funds arising out of a parish should be applied otherwise than in providing for the spiritual wants of the parishioners. He should support the Amendment, and suggest that the objection of the noble Lord might be met by the addition of the words "except in parishes where there were no Protestants."
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  thought the Amendment was quite unnecessary. If the want of churches was complained of, the Commissioners were already provided by the Bill, with means to interfere; but the Amendment would tie them down to supply that which was neither wanted nor desired in parishes where there were no Protestant inhabitants.
 Mr. O'Connell  was surprised the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) should go to the Quixotic length he had done. He had first found new churches, and since had found new Protestants, to the amount,
 217 Shaw
 Major Macnamara  said, that he could state that in one district of the county of Clare there was not a Protestant in the whole barony, and much less in any of the parishes in that barony.
 Mr. O' Connell  said, it was perfectly clear that in a great majority of cases the proposed alteration would operate most unjustly. Where ornamental improvements had been made, their value was not to be estimated, but what would be the case with the poorer tenants? Their interests would be calculated upon the full value, and they were to lose the bonus of four per cent because another class of tenants were to have the benefit of the custom. He was opposed to the alteration, because he conceived it was calculated to relieve the wealthy tenants alone, while it placed the poorer class of tenants in a worse situation than before. The clause as it stood had given great satisfaction to the Irish people, and now the government were about as usual to throw cold water on the feeling of satisfaction which they had engendered by the provision as it originally stood.
 Mr. O'Connell  asked whether because the House did an act of justice towards one class of tenants they were to do an act of injustice towards another class?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there ought to be no more delay, and the House ought to get rid of all delusion on the subject. There had been enough of both. What Committee had done last year Commission did now, and yet it was proposed that there should be another Committee, and then no doubt there would be another Commission. And what was it that they were thus delaying about? It was whether a child could work more than a negro in the West-Indies. When they were proposing apprenticeships for the negroes they did not dare to talk of more than ten hours' work, and now they were to debate whether a child was able to work more than a grown negro. The King was bound to protect all his subjects under the age of twenty-one years, and a great officer, the Lord Chancellor, was appointed, to whom that duty was assigned. If the infant had a hundred pounds in 'the world he would be sure of the protection of the Lord Chancellor, who might tear him from his mother's arms for that purpose, as he had torn a Member from that House. But the power of the Lord Chancellor could not be put in motion without money. Here were children who had no Lord Chancellor to protect them. They had no property but their labour, and the House was bound to become the universal Chancellor in their favour. The
 233
 Colonel Torrens  objected to the Bill being referred to a Committee up-stairs with such instructions as those recommended by the noble Lord. Parents might be willing to make the sacrifice of the wages attendant on a diminution of the hours of working to ten, but he doubted
 246
 Mr. Matthias Allwood  said, he agreed with most of the remarks of the hon. member for Middlesex, with regard to the propriety of going into a Committee of the whole House upon the Bill, although he did not think that Ministers brought forward the Amendment merely for the sake of delay. He also fully appreciated those feelings which animated the hon. member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), in referring to his own early sufferings—feelings which, in his opinion, and evidently in that of the House, had done the hon. Member the greatest honour. The House had heard a great deal said about the excitement which undoubtedly prevailed among the population of the manufacturing districts; but what was the course proposed by his Majesty's Ministers likely to produce, if not additional excitement? What
 247
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  wished to recal the attention of the House to the real subject before them. The hon. member for Whitehaven had charged his noble friend with a desire to delay the Bill, but if the hon. Gentleman had only heard his noble friend's statement, he would have seen that there was no foundation whatever for the allegation. The right hon. Gentleman contended, that the Bill in its present shape could not be passed without much discussion and a great waste of time, and that the proposition of his noble friend, instead of impeding, would have the effect of facilitating its progress in such a form as would give general satisfaction to all parties interested in it. The Committee up stairs was not intended to receive evidence, but merely to see whether the protection proposed to be given by this Bill might not be carried even further than it had been carried by the noble Lord. The subject was one of such difficulty and delicacy that it could not properly be discussed by a Committee of the whole House; and hence his noble friend's anxiety to have it sent to a Committee up stairs, where it could receive all the consideration it deserved. For his own part he should like to have the whole subject fully discussed, and he was satisfied if it were completely argued out, the ignorance and delusion that prevailed regarding it would be effectually dissipated. It had been said, the Lord Chancellor was the protector of all infants who have property, and this House was called upon to make itself the protector of all infants who have no property but their labour. He entirely agreed in that sentiment; the House was bound to take under its protection not only infants, but every other of his Majesty's subjects; but protection might sometimes be an injury, as arose from the very protection of the Court of Chancery, where the protection was often very dearly paid for by those parties who were unfortunate enough to obtain it. He felt confident of what would be the result of
 249
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Shell) had led the House to imagine, that they were about to refer the question to a Committee to consider whether they would legislate or not, and upon what principle. It was for neither one nor the other, for both were equally beyond the consideration of a Select Committee. It was only proposed to refer the Bill to a Select Committee to consider its details, and in order to enable Gentlemen to come to the consideration of the question with more knowledge of the real circumstances, with more calmness, more temper, more of dispassionate investigation, than had been shown by the hon. and learned Gentleman, with more deliberation than it was possible for the details of a measure to meet with in a Committee of the whole House. The West-India Company, the East-India Company, the Bank Charter—none of these questions, had yet come to that point at which they referred this to a Committee. They were not on the question
 252
 Lord Ashley  observed, if there was any inconsistency in bringing on the measure to its present stage without having the Report of the Commissioners in the hands of the House he was not culpable. From day to day had he been put off by the noble Lord, until he found himself placed in that situation that if he did not endeavour to bring the question under discussion, he must give up all hopes of legislating upon it during the present Session. With regard to the proposition of the noble Lord, he had only to observe, that if the noble Lord would affirm at once the preamble of his (Lord Ashley's) Bill, he was at perfect liberty to do what he pleased with it, either in Committee of the whole House or in Committee up-stairs. If the noble Lord, however, refused to do so, he should resist his proposition, for he was convinced if it once reached a Select Committee without an admission of its principle, it would be either detained there till the end of the Session, or sent back so completely altered that he should find himself unable to recognise it. As far as the noble Lord's proposition related to the inspection of the mills with a view of seeing the law enforced, he begged to say, he entirely concurred in it; and if not afraid of giving additional offence to the opponents of his measure, provision for such an inspection would have formed part of his Bill. Nor would he make any objection to that part of the proposition which related to confining the hours of labour for young persons under fourteen years of age to eight hours a-day. There was another part of the noble Lord's proposition which God forbid he should object to; namely, that which went to provide competent education to the children. The great moral defect in the existing condition of society arose from the want of any provision for the education of the lower orders; and he only wished that the noble Lord, availing himself of his influence as Minister of the Crown, would push forward and provide suitable education for all classes of children among the lower orders, whether employed in factories or otherwise. So far he was disposed to concur with the noble Lord; but when the noble Lord went on and spoke in terms of reprehension of the clause relating to accidents occurring through the use of machines, it was imperative on him to raise
 225 226 Hon. Member: 227
 Colonel Perceval  could not permit the speech of the hon. member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) to impose upon the House. He knew little of those parts of Ireland which heretofore returned the hon. and learned Gentleman to that House; but if his statements referred to Dublin, or to those parts of Ireland with which he was acquainted, he must be permitted to say, that they had more of good humour than of fact to recommend them. He could state, that in places where churches had been built since the Union, the average number of Protestants attending exceeded 300. The hon. member for Mayo (Mr. Dominick Browne) took upon himself to answer for Connaught. He (Colonel Perceval) had heard of persons assuming to themselves the right of representing all Ireland, and he supposed that the hon. Gentleman wished it to be imagined that he was the representative of all Connaught. Now he (Colonel Perceval) had the honour of representing zone of the counties in the kingdom of Connaught, and he would inform the hon. Gentleman that he was misinformed with respect to the Protestant population in that district. He could state, that in Sligo every church was attended both by congregations and communicants. In the parish in which he (Colonel Perceval) resided, the church, within his own recollection, had been enlarged, and it was now much too small for the congregation. In all the churches in his neighbourhood, the number of persons attending divine service was much more than the buildings could accommodate.
 Colonel Perceval  suggested, that the minimum of a curate under an incumbent of 500 l l
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, he was satisfied that of late the Protestants had much decreased in Ireland. He admitted, that several hundred new churches had been built, but he was certain that many of those churches had no congregations. He himself knew parishes in Galway and Mayo in which there were only two Protestant families—those of the rector and clerk. He was ready to support the Church as far as the Protestants required it, but would not go one shilling further; and he should therefore oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that if his hon. friend (Mr. Dominick Browne) had taken as much pains to ascertain the fact as he had, he would have learned that generally in the new churches that had been built there were congregations averaging from three to four hundred. He had, without any returns being moved for, and merely through some friends who were casually in London, ascertained that such was the result in three or four dioceses. He had before stated the minute details of these cases to the House; and in the diocese of Tuam, which his hon. friend ought to know, the establishment of these new places of worship (more frequently in licenced houses than in churches, owing to the poverty of the parishes) had been attended with the most beneficial effects. It was not of new churches but new congregations (which with attention were sure to follow them) that the opponents of the Church were so much afraid.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the clause had stood 110 in the last copy of the Bill—and he had to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. The power conferred by that clause, of suspending incumbents where service had been intermitted for the last three years, he always regarded as one of the worst features in the Bill; and the reason he had reserved his Amendment for the present stage was, that he so much deprecated the whole of the clause, he would not move an Amendment until he had first taken the sense of the Committee upon omitting the clause altogether. He had already argued the question at much length, and he would not detain the Committee further than to remind them, that in the last thirty years four times as much had been effected in providing for the celebration of divine service according to the forms of the established religion in Ireland as in the preceding century. In 1800, there must have been 700 benefices where service had not been performed for the three years preceding, for there did not exist the means of its performance; since then, 500 churches had been built, and he supposed about 100 places of worship licensed where there were not funds for building a church. This progressive and rapid improvement bad left but about 100 benefices unprovided. The influence of the Protestant established religion was extending itself over the whole country, and, in three years more, if uninterrupted in its course, would perfectly cover it. The Bill before them cut off half of the episcopal bench, under whose au-spices and close personal superintendence the process of advancement was taking place; even the Commissioners who were substituted for them were to be directed, by the clause under consideration, to cut a trench between the cultivated district and that which still remained unimproved, (being in the proportion of but one-seventh to what had been accomplished), and there to stay the benefits and blessings which it was but reasonable to infer would soon have been supplied to every part of Ireland. This was the proposition of those who called themselves the friends of the Church. If such friends had proposed a similar law twenty years ago, it would probably have I kept half instead of the fourteenth of the
 215
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he considered it a matter of no great importance whether the future revenue of the bishopric of Derry was 8,000 l l l l 211
 Mr. Shaw  said, there were two distinct questions—first, whether the bonus of four per cent should ever have been given to the tenants; and next, whether, at all events, having been given, it could then be withdrawn, in consequence of what he believed sincerely to have been but an act of strict justice being done to tenants—for he must ever maintain that it was no more than justice that a man should not in a purchase from the Commissioners have to pay over again the value of a building, or ornamental improvement, which had been undertaken upon the faith of the Bishop not valuing it in the calculation of his renewal fine. As to such improvements, he denied that it had been the custom to charge them in any diocese. Whether the noble Lord was right or wrong in first granting the bonus he would not say; but he certainly thought it ought not to be introduced on the ground the noble Lord had put it.
 Mr. Finch  supported the Amendment, and maintained, that as Protestantism was
 216
 Mr. Sinclair  would cordially support the proposition of the noble Mover, and the more so, as, according to the new arrangement of his noble friend opposite, with respect to public business, Committees could only meet two or three days during the week. He hoped, that Parliament would not be prorogued until this most important measure had been finally and satisfactorily adjusted. His Majesty's Ministers would wish the House to continue its labours until the West-India question had been settled; and flu; people of this country, however anxious they might be for the liberation of the negroes from a state
 254
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, he felt that a case was made out for the interference of the Legislature, and he should be sorry if the Session passed over without the House adopting some measures on the subject. But he should vote for the appointment of a Select Committee, because he had no means of judging of the evidence on the side of the manufacturers. He thought it absolutely necessary that there should be some provision for enforcing the regulations of any Bill that might be passed, for there were already several laws which ought to be carried into effect, but which were totally disregarded for want of means to enforce them. Sir John Hobhouse's Bill for restricting labour to twelve hours, had been carried into effect in Manchester, by a committee of master-manufacturers; but in other places it was evaded. Although there was no more decided advocate than he was, of the interference of the House in favour of the factory children, yet, for the reason he had stated, he thought the question ought to be referred to a Select Committee. If be were a member of that Committee, he should feel it his duty to recommend that
 229
 Mr. George Wood  thought the House ought not hastily to come to a decision upon a subject of so much importance. He rejoiced much at the manner in which the feeling address of the hon. member for Salford had been received by the House; and though his hon. friend had pointed out a middle course to be pursued on this question, yet he feared, from the tone and temper manifested by the advocates of the Bill, there was but little chance that a middle course would be adopted. He, however, hoped the House would not proceed to adjudicate lightly upon this important question. The existing law had not been proved to be ineffective; and until it was shown that the proposed prohibition or restriction would be so, great caution should be used. The hon. Baronet (the member for Oxford) had made a strong appeal to the feelings, by calling upon the House to afford protection to young women under eighteen years of age, by passing this Bill; but he would remind the hon. Baronet, that in such an event as the Bill passing with its present restrictions, females under eighteen would be discharged by the master, and those above eighteen years of age, whether unmarried or married, would be employed; and if the latter were the case, the effect upon the state of society would be most prejudicial.
 Mr. George Young  supported the clause as it stood, and hoped the noble Lord Would not press the Committee to a division upon the Amendment.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that taking away the bonus would be an act of injustice towards the poorer tenantry. All that was required by the clause as it stood was, that the tenants should have the benefit of the existing custom. It was plain that it was the custom in some dioceses to charge for the improvements, and in others not.
 Mr. Hardy  thought, that the course proposed, of submitting the matter to the investigation of a Committee up-stairs would impress the country with a belief that it was intended to conceal the delinquencies of the master manufacturers under that covering. For this reason he deprecated that course. He meant not to say anything in disparagement of the Factory Commissioners. He believed them to be on the whole honorable men. But he was of opinion, that they had not chosen a favorable period of the year for the prosecution of their examinations. He knew many (if the Commissioners personally, and was convinced, that they were incapable of unfairness in the prosecution of their inquiries. But, he repeated, they had undertaken them at the wrong period of the year. They went forth in the month of June—the month of all others most calculated to give a favorable coloring to their Report. They instituted their inquiries into the condition of the factory children, he insisted, at a period when that condition was presented under the most favorable appearances—when the factories were newly white washed, and when every thing in the way of comfort that was attainable by the wretched inmates was accomplished. They ought to have gone in the winter season to make their examinations and their inquiries; and then they would have observed the wretched and desolate condition of the poor inmates of the factories,
 253
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that all persons were agreed that some legislation was necessary. That was making a great progress, for twenty years ago not a single master would allow that legislative interference was necessary. Now, the public, the masters, and the working men, all agreed in appealing to Parliament to make regulations for the labour of factories. They had different motives for demanding it. The masters demanded it because they desired to prevent some amongst themselves from working too long. The adults required
 234
 Mr. Hume  said, that though it was an established principle or rule, that any restriction or regulation of labour or wages was mischievous, yet he thought the case of children was an exception to that rule. He had voted for a Commission of Inquiry on the grounds of the complaints as to the allegations preferred against that important interest, the manufacturers of this country; but he was of opinion that now, when so strong a feeling had been raised in the public mind, that the Bill ought to be discussed, clause by clause, in a Committee of the whole House, in order that the public might know all the bearings and principles of the Bill. By sending the Bill to a Committee up-stairs, not one hour would be saved. A Committee had already sat, and a Commission of Inquiry had been issued, and this was the proper time to come to a decision upon the subject. The charges of partiality which had been raised against the Commissioners, who were, no doubt, honorable men, would not be set aside by the secret inquiries of a Committee up-stairs, and therefore the discussion ought to be in this House, so that every man might know the opinions in favour and the opposition offered to every clause of the Bill. Such a course would afford satisfaction to the country, and believing it to be the best for all portions of the community, he should support the motion for going into a Committee of the whole House.
 Mr. Sheil  asked, what was the amount of patronage to be added to the see of Derry in consequence of the other see merging into it. The Government apparently reduced the income of the Bishops, while they doubled their patronage, thereby affording them additional means of providing for their families. He thought the patronage of the suppressed bishoprics ought to be vested in the Crown.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the opinion of a Gentleman so closely connected with the Established Church as the hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Lushington) opposite must be received with respect. But he (Mr. Sheil) submitted to the hon. and learned Gentleman himself whether it might not be, that as objects might be sometimes so close to the eyes as not to be seen, so the hon. and learned Gentleman might be too close to the Church to take so telescopic and comprehensive a view of its interest as others who stood in a position of less proximity. Surely, if a rector received an income of 500 l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Sheil  reminded the House, that Resolutions on this subject were first introduced into that House by Mr. Sadler years ago, and were supported by an appeal to much evidence. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, at that time admitted, that it was a fit subject for legislation, but suggested that the Resolutions were not sufficient, and that a Bill ought to be presented. Accordingly a Bill was drawn up and presented, and upon some suggestions was deferred. A great deal of evidence had been since obtained, and as for himself he could truly say, that he was present at the detail of so much misery that it had gone beyond anything he could conjecture or any statement he could make of it. The Parliament was then dissolved, and the matter was brought forward in the new Parliament by the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) who stepped into the honourable station held by Mr. Sadler. When the question was pressed, an application was made for a Commission, and carried by a majority of one. ["More."] One, he believed; but, however, he would not object to add another. It was now nearly two years since the proceeding commenced, and now it was proposed to go before a Select Committee. First, there was the resolutions of Mr. Sadler; then the declaration of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), that it was a proper matter for legislation; then a Bill was presented; then evidence was heard; then the matter was again brought forward, supported by this new evidence; then there was a Commission; and now, after all, there must be a Select Committee! For what  251
 Mr. Slaney  recommended the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) to make some concession in his propositions for the purpose of carrying them into effect. The difference between the two propositions before the House, the one being, that all children under eighteen years of age; should work but ten hours a day, the other that all under fourteen should work but eight, was not so great as to require much time to settle it. But surely the difference between these two propositions could be better settled in a Select Committee than by any other plan of investigation. In case the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Al-thorp) should be carried he (Mr. Slaney) trusted the noble Lord would be prepared to bring the Bill to a conclusion during the present Session, as might be recommended by the Committee, the appointment of which depended on the vote of the House this night.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that in point of practice the adoption of the clause would rather be injurious than otherwise to the class of persons whom it was intended to serve. He apprehended, that as the law stood the Bishop had a power of fixing the remuneration of the curates in his diocese. The rector would decline making any agreement with his curate if the income of his parish did not yield him a sufficient return to pay it; he would drag on in the business
 212
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that they had had abundance of evidence and figures. The hon. Member's (Mr. Poulett Thomson's) language was sometimes literal and sometimes figurative; but the whole amounted to this—mammon against mercy. After the eulogium on the humanity of the House pronounced by an hon. Baronet (Sir Samuel Whalley), he trusted that mercy would prevail. He trusted, that it would. But, at any rate, if they were not to be so humane as the hon. Baronet anticipated, he expected they would be, at least, sincere. If they were sincere, how could any man say, that a Committee up stairs could take a book containing 1,500 pages, could analyse and understand it all,
 250
 Mr. Finn  said, that the amount of property in the possession of the Established Church of Ireland was sufficient to pay for the competent discharge of all its duties. The superior clergy were eulogized on all sides of the House; but he would ask, did they appoint those to benefices who actually wanted them? The curates were as well educated as the rectors, or even the Bishops or Archbishops; yet they had not a tenth of the income of the one, or a hundredth of the income of the other. Besides, competence was not an essential qualification to their appointment to a living; on the contrary, he knew few who had been appointed for other than political reasons, or through the influence of political connection. He also knew, that many curates in Ireland were driven to do things unbecoming their character as clergymen and gentlemen simply to obtain the mere means of existence. In making these observations be was solely influenced by a feeling of justice and charity; and he was well aware that they would petition, individually and generally, but that they were afraid of their diocesan.
 Mr. Finn  proposed, that a clause should be introduced between 88 and 3;), to the effect, that in all cases in which the value of a benefice should amount to the sum of 500 l l
 Mr. Hyett  hoped as no debate had hitherto taken place upon the merits of the measure, that he might be permitted, notwithstanding the prohibition on the part of the
 235 236 237 238 239 240 cœteris paribus 241 242 243 244 245
 Mr. Ward  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Shaw) boasted much of the new churches and the number of places of worship the Bishops had established. He wished to know if there were Protestants to attend them? for it was easier to build churches than to find congregations for them.
 Mr. Jervis  was of opinion, that the noble Lord (Althorp) had from the outset admitted the principle of the Bill, which was simply the necessity of some legislation, and, therefore, he would suggest to the noble Lord (Ashley), that so far his opposition to the Amendment was unnecessary. He thought if the Bill was at all to be referred to a Select Committee, that it would be much better not to fetter such Committee with instructions, but leave it for them to decide upon a full investigation of the Commissioners' Report and the evidence, what description of measure was called for. He for one begged to say, that if eight hours' labour was to form a principle of the Bill he would not assent to it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  complained of the disadvantage under which ninety-nine Members out of 100 laboured, in never having seen even the outside of the volume now before them (the Report of the Commissioners) until that moment. The Report had not yet been delivered to the Members of the House. Copies had only been given to some favoured individuals, and also, he supposed, to his Majesty's Ministers; but with the exception of a copy which he had met an hon. friend of his carrying, like a burthen, in the streets of London, a day or two ago, he had never until that moment seen the Report. And yet it was upon that Report that the House was now called upon to legislate. He must, however, say that the difficulty he felt was considerably reduced by the recollection of the former Report on the factory system. If he knew no more than the evidence of the medical men contained in that Report, he should be quite prepared to say that sixteen or even thirteen hours' labour during the day, was much too great for the human animal at that period of life when it was the object of his noble friend to protect children. As his noble friend was now absent from his seat, he might indulge himself by saying, that, since this question had lost the benefit of Mr. Sadler's able advocacy, it could not possibly have fallen into better hands than those of his noble friend. It was surely not necessary to carry such a question from Committee to Commission, and from Commission back to Committee again. The Bill of his noble friend only said, that no more than a certain quantity of labour should be imposed upon children under a certain age. Could there be a stronger case than that which was supported by the evidence of such names as Bell, Brodie, Roget, and Carlisle, and other medical men of equal eminence, all of whom concurred in declaring, that females, under a given age, were incompetent to perform the quantity of labour now imposed upon them? He did not wish to attack the mill-owners, either as individuals or as a body; but he could not help deeply censuring the system under which so extended a quantity of labour was imposed upon female infants, for such they were, both by law, and, in many cases; in strict phraseology. It was the bounden duty of that House to step forward and say, that henceforward such labours should not be imposed. He was fully prepared
 230
 Sir Robert Inglis  was sorry to have differed
 219
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that much as be was opposed both to the principle as well as the details of the Bill, he was yet bound to state, that his Majesty's Government had shown a very disinterested feeling in one respect. It was evident, that they might if they pleased have transferred the patronage of the suppressed bishoprics to the Crown. Such a course would have rendered the measure so much the worse, that he (Sir Robert Inglis) could not but feel grateful to them for allowing the patronage to remain with the Bishops.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  objected to referring the Bill to a Committee, because he conceived that there was already ample evidence for the House to proceed upon. The late Commission was most uncalled for, and unjustifiable, as a wanton and useless expenditure of public money, without effecting any practical results. This was not a way of dealing with a measure like the present, on which so much popular feeling was interested. And it appeared to him, moreover, that the Commissioners went to their work more as partisans to make out a case for the manufacturers, rather than as searchers out of truth. The manner in which they had conducted their proceedings, too, was most blameworthy—he meant with reference to their unconstitutional and un-British practice of taking evidence with closed doors. He did not believe, that this Bill of the noble Lord would effect the objects he had in view, unless the limitations of labour were altered.  Ash 228 l
 Lord Althorp  said, he felt the force of the arguments adduced against his Amendment; and as it appeared that it would have the effect of giving a bonus to the richer tenant, which was not given to the poorer, he should withdraw it.
 Lord Althorp  rose, to call the attention of the House to the situation in which the measure just brought before them stood, and to suggest what appeared to him the most reasonable course to be pursued, in order to arrive at the passing of the measure during
 220 221 222 223 224
 Lord Althorp  thought the better way would be to leave the application of such fluids to the discretion of the Commissioners. If the proposition should be adopted, it would tie up the Commissioners to the appropriation of the funds in a specific manner. In cases where no service had been performed for three years the probability, was that it had arisen from there being no Protestants in the parish. In such a case it was too much to apply the funds to the purposes suggested in the Amendment, and the Commissioners were not precluded by the clause as it stood from the application of the funds in the manner suggested in case there were Protestants in the parish.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman showed distinctly that the alteration made in a previous Committee was a wrong one. The Act made the lease perpetual, and that he considered a sufficient bonus in itself. He should be sorry that great dissatisfaction should be felt in Ireland upon the subject as he really felt obliged to persist in deducting the bonus.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had an alteration to propose in the terms of this clause. As
 218 l
 Lord Morpeth  said, that ever since the conduct of this measure had passed from his hands into those of his noble friend it had been his study to offer no obstruction to its course, in the hope that his noble friend might be blessed with the means of conducting Parliament to such a decision as should secure efficient protection to the children in the factory districts, with the smallest possible injury or interruption to employment and industry. With this view he had voted against the appointment of a Commission, though now, after it had been appointed, and the consequent delay incurred, he should think it very preposterous and stiff-necked not to derive such assistance from its labours as they might fairly seem entitled to afford. What that amount of assistance might be they had at present very inadequate means of deciding, as the Report had not yet reached them. All he could say at present was, that if the Commissioners, after much communication, both with masters and men, felt themselves authorised to recommend for children under a certain age a shorter term of labour than that which both his noble friend and himself would have concurred in suggesting, that was, ten hours, he should feel disposed to accede to it. But then he must add, that he should be sorry to leave all young persons above fourteen years of age wholly without any regulation or protection from excessive working, nay, possibly exposed to the aggravated toil of working through the double set of hours for the younger children. Under these circumstances he thought they might come to some agreement to continue persons between the ages of fourteen and eighteen under the present limitations of Sir John Hobhouse's Bill,
 231 232
 Lord Stormont  contended, that the effect of the proposition of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be, if not to throw the Bill out altogether, at
 248
 Mr. Shiel  rose to move the addition of a clause, by way of rider; the object of which was to reduce the incomes of all the Irish Bishops to 3,000 l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that with regard to the Archbishopric of Armagh, that diocese was peculiarly situated. There was an outstanding debt for repairs, &c. on that see, which debt was from time to time increased, and, consequently, a large annual
 258 l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he should speak with the greatest calmness, on the subject not withstanding the charges brought against him by the hon. Member. The hon. Member took credit to himself for being perfectly polite. Some of his language did not precisely justify the hon. Member in his assumption; but, however, it was certain, that the hon. Member was a meek and forgiving Christian, for he protested to Heaven that he was so, and he was right, according to his own account, for those whom he chose to persecute were the enemies of the Lord, and no Christians. He was prepared to cut the throats of the unbelievers, and to tell them afterwards, that he did so in mercy to the survivors. The hon. Member had read them a homily, and had argued that this measure was brought forward of malice prepense to the Church. He had also asserted, that the oath taken by Roman Catholic Members of Parliament ought to prevent them from voting upon the subject; but was there any inspiration in a certain number of pounds, shillings, and pence? He (Mr. O'Connell) bad heard, before, that godliness was great gain, but he had never before beard that great; gain was godliness. He was not aware of the  tertium quid 260
 Mr. Shiel  then rose to move the introduction in the preamble of the Bill of a recital, declaratory of the right of the Legislature to make such appropriation of the property of the Church as should most conduce to public utility. He made this Motion in consequence of the unanticipated, unfortunately, be might add, discreditable, withdrawal of the 147th clause of the Bill; that clause contained a principle, which he sought to restore, and without which he was convinced, that the measure would be unavailing. It was true, that Church-cess was abolished, but the Irish people would look, not to what was conceded, but to what was withheld—to what was omitted, not to what was retained—would compare the original tender with the ultimate fulfilment, and contrast the magnitude of the promise with the diminutiveness into which the performance had lamely and impotently dwindled. Let it also be borne in mind, that, while this Bill operated as a release to the people, it worked as a confirmation to the Church. It released the people from the payment of a few thousands annually, and confirmed the clergy in their doubtful title to upwards of a million of pounds. It actually made an addition to their wealth, by applying the perpetuity fund to the in-crease of livings. A new mine was opened, and its products were to be applied to the enrichment of the tabernacle. As
 261 262 * l * † Ibid. p. 564 263 * Hansard * 264 * * 265 * * * 266 267 * Hansard l * 268 269 270 Expressum facit cessare tacitum. 271
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would not detain the House one moment. He regretted the omission of the 147th Clause, because he thought it contained the only really valuable principle in the Bill. He was, however, bound to admit that the Church-cess was dealt with to the extent he desired. He was surprised to hear the hon. Baronet who spoke last state that the Catholics of Ireland did not contribute to the support of the Church Establishment. Were not Catholics distressed for the payment of tithe? But he supposed that the hon. Baronet meant that the Church was maintained by the landed proprietors. Now, admitting that nineteen-twentieths of the landed property of Ireland was held by Protestants, still there was the remaining twentieth, which belonged to Catholics. The fee-simple of the whole county of Kerry was in the possession of Catholics; and surely the hon. Baronet would not deny, that they were taxed for the support of the Protestant Church? He hoped the time would come when the House of Commons would be prepared to declare—that every man should support his own clergyman, and should not be obliged to contribute to the maintenance of a Church to which he did not belong.
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed an Amendment to the 50th Clause. He would remind the House that this Bill, as originally proposed by the noble Lord, contained a system of taxation upon all the present incumbents of ecclesiastical benefices in Ireland. That system was objected to as unreasonable, and in consequence the Bill was altered so as to make the taxation commence immediately after the decease of the present holders. This alteration applied also to the Bishops and their revenues, so that there was not a single-person possessed of a benefice in Ireland who would suffer any diminution of his income during his incumbency. This rule was universal, with one exception, and that exception was the present Bishop of Derry, and his reason for now proposing an Amendment, was to call the attention of the House to the unseemliness of making
 284 l
 Mr. O' Connell  wished to know whether, after the statement which the House had just heard, any man could doubt, that the Bishop of Derry had been the uniform advocate of Catholic emancipation? He also wished to know who the person was who had brought the right hon. Baronet that petition. He thought that the right hon. Baronet ought to have been more cautious in speaking as to the contents of a petition which had been raked up out of the oblivion in which it had slumbered for so many years.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was not impressed with the propriety of acceding to this Motion by the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. If the House were legislating for the indulgence of political principle, or for the sake of gratifying private feelings of regard, there
 285 l l l
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that what had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet, was neither candour nor the affectation of candour. The Bishop of Derry had certainly placed his signature to that petition, but the right hon. Baronet had forgotten to tell the House the disgraceful manner in which his signature to it was obtained. He had also forgotten to tell the House, that, as soon as that right reverend Prelate bad discovered that his signature was attached to it, be had published in the newspapers a letter explaining the circumstances. He said, that be had, for some time previously, been labouring under a typhus fever; that, as he was recovering from it, a petition was brought to him as he was lying; in bed in the dark, for he was then too it to bear the light; that he was told that it was only a petition for the protection of the rights of the Church, and that it had been signed by Dr. Magee, the then Archbishop of Dublin; and that he bad signed it under a total ignorance of the illiberal sentiments which it contained, and which he took that opportunity of totally disclaiming. Under these circumstances, he thought that those who had made this use of a petition to which Dr. Ponsonby's name was surreptitiously obtained,
 287
 Mr. Lefroy  rose, and some manifestation of impatience having been exhibited, the hon. and learned Member said, that he trusted when hon. Members considered the length of time that had been occupied—not in discussing the provisions of the Bill—but in endeavours to carry Amendments much beyond the provisions of the Bill—assailing the very foundation of the Established Church—they would not consider it unreasonable that a person standing in the relation that he did to the Church, should be indulged with a hearing, while he stated to the House his reasons why the Bill should not now pass. If hon. Members were prepared to say, that without any discussion whatever—if they were prepared to say, that without any regard to the consistency of the votes which the House had hitherto come to, no matter whether the Bill were at variance with the principles on which the House had acted at an early stage of it—hon. Members were prepared to pass it at all hazards, it would of course be vain for him to address them upon the subject. But on this point he did feel anxious to address them, and to this chiefly he meant to confine himself; and he trusted that the House, in fairness and in justice, would hear the observations which he had to make. The House had decided that Church property in the hands of the present possessors was not to be interfered with. Now, one of his main objections to the Bill was, that it did essentially interfere with Church property—not merely with respect to the property of the Church as a corporation, but it went further with respect to the Bishops, and interfered most unjustly with the enjoyment and ownership of the present possessors. The interest in the fee-simple of the property of the Bishops' estates was transferred by the Bill from the present possessors. The transfer of the interest in the perpetuity was not to take place on the demise of the present Bishops, or merely as to the suppressed sees, but was to take effect immediately from the passing of the Act; and as to all the present Bishops, this was manifestly unjust, and directly at variance with the principle which had obtained the sanction of the House, that Church property, in the hands of the present possessors, was not to be interfered with. At present the Bishop was entitled to deal with his property as he pleased. He had a right to say to the tenant whether he would
 289 290 291
 Colonel Hanmer  said, he should not be doing justice to the sentiments of that respectable constituency who had sent him to that House, nor to his own, if he did content himself with giving a silent vote of dissent to the measure under the consideration of the House. The existing interests of the Irish clergy were, in his opinion, as much entitled to the protection of the Legislature as any other class of his
 292 bonâ fide
 Colonel Evans  observed, that the only reason assigned for withdrawing the 147th Clause was, an apprehension of a collision with the Lords—a fear, however, which did not seem to actuate the House or Ministers a few nights ago in the affair of Portugal. The population connected with the Church in Ireland was 500,000; the revenue of the Church amounted to at least 1,000,000 l
 Mr. O'Connell  was almost at a loss to know whether he should vote in favour of the Bill or against it. The only feature of the measure of which he approved consisted in its abolition of vestry cess; but the main principle of the bill had been violated by the abandonment of the 147th clause. He could not reconcile himself to support the Bill after the abandonment of its leading principle. The reduction of the Bishops was a gratuitous insult to the Church, and did not benefit the Roman Catholic population. What the Catholics wanted was, relief from the burthens that oppressed them, but without damage, insult, or injury to the Protestant Church. Thinking that the Bill would not afford the necessary relief, he should vote against it.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that when it was considered that the hon. and learned member for Dublin was daily in the habit of taunting Ministers with never undertaking any measure for the relief of the Irish people, it did appear a little inconsistent with the hon. Gentleman's doctrines and taunts that he should be the man, when a bill which tended materially to relieve his countrymen, was proposed on the responsibility of Government—that the hon. and learned Member should be the man to stand forward and say; "the Roman Catholics of Ireland shall continue to pay vestry-cess. I will not allow them to escape from the burthen of contributions to a Church to which they do not belong. I shall vote against the Bill." The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that the main principle of the Bill had been violated, and that he, therefore, felt it his duty to oppose the measure as it now stood. He (Mr. Stanley) denied that there had been any such violation. Every member of the Government who spoke upon the subject, had stated from the outset that a conversion of Church property to other than Church purposes formed no part of the Bill; they neither affirmed nor denied the abstract proposition, but they over and over again, declared, that it formed no part of the principle of the measure; therefore, he could not hear the hon. Gentleman taunt Ministers with abandoning that which they had never brought forward. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that there was nothing valuable in the Bill except its abolition of vestry-cess; and in his great tenderness towards the Established Church, he thought
 296
 Mr. O'Connell  believed, that there was but one man in the House, who could have made the assertion which had been uttered by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that somebody had informed him, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had avowed, that his object in voting against the Bill was, to have it thrown out in the House of Lords. He did not believe that any person had told the right hon. Gentleman so. He had, certainly, no wish to commit a breach of order; perhaps he ought to have said, that nobody could have told the right hon. Gentleman so with truth. He was convinced, if his vote could have any weight whatever in another place, that the fact of his voting against the measure, would rather operate as a reason why it should not be thrown out in the Lords.
 The Lord Advocate  objected to the proposed alteration, on the ground that it would render a new system of registration necessary. It was totally inconsistent with the present system. The principle of the Motion had been discussed over and over' again, and had been rejected.
 Lord Allhorp  was somewhat surprised at hearing the sentiments of the hon. Gentleman; for, if he did not mistake, the hon. Gentleman had, on a former occasion, supported the Bill, and he did not conceive how that could have been consistently with the opinions the hon. Gentleman at present avowed. He could not comprehend how the hon. Gentleman could ever have supported the Bill, if he had entertained his present sentiments. To night the hon. Gentleman had spoken out, and fairly said, that he did not want a Church establishment at all. With such sentiments it was impossible for that or any other Bill proposed by the Ministers to satisfy the Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman would Certainly, if he could, destroy all Church Establishments. It was most extraordinary, if the hon. Gentleman had ever been favourable to the Bill, that the omission of the 147th clause from it should have wrought such a change in the hon. Gentleman's opinions. He did not suppose that the omission of the clause could have made any change in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman. He saw, that on this occasion, the Government was to be opposed by the Gentlemen of both extremes—by those who thought that the Parliament had no right to meddle with the Church at all, and those who thought that the present measure did not go far enough. The Government was now to be opposed both by those who, like the hon. Baronet, the member for Oxford, objected to all Reform of the Church, and those who like the hon. Gentleman, desired to push that Reform a great deal further than the Ministers. The parties who were entirely opposed to each other would unite to vote against this Bill. That was, he thought, not a bad compliment to the course the Ministers had adopted. They had displeased both parties, which showed that the measure was neither imprudent nor unwise, and he hoped that the majority of the House would support the Bill.
 Colonel Davies  had no hesitation in asserting that the conduct of Ministers had lately been anything but consistent with what they professed some weeks ago, if there was anything that was valuable in the Bill, it was that very part of it which had been expunged. If the clause had never been introduced into the Bill, the question never would have been mooted: but, as it had been introduced, and as public attention had been directed to the matter, it ought not to have been withdrawn. There was a great deal of difference between not introducing such a clause, and introducing it only to withdraw it; but it was still worse, when it was remembered under what admonition it was withdrawn—namely, that if it were not withdrawn in that House, it would be thrown out in the other House of Parliament. He was almost inclined to say, that if the principle of the hon. Member's Motion were rejected, and a Motion was afterwards made to throw out the Bill, that he should support that Motion with his vote. Without this recital, the Bill, instead of giving content to the people of Ireland, would only create
 276
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, he was determined to move the previous question. He had always understood that the hon. member for Tipperary had, in common with the other Roman Catholic Members of that House, pledged himself, by his oath, not to interfere with matters affecting the stability of the Protestant Church. He was a Protestant Member of that House, and he conceived that no Roman. Catholic ought to interfere in the discussion of any question affecting the interests of the Protest-ant Church; or take any steps calculated to weaken that establishment, or in any way affect the Protestant religion. He was aware that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had, on former occasions, endeavoured to overwhelm him with argument, but he did not think the hon. Member was successful. He knew that the Council of Constance and the Council of Lateran had decreed certain regulations with respect to the Catholic doctrines. He would quote the opinions of Mr. Wilmot Horton, who stated, that though an advocate for the Catholic claims, he thought they ought not to vote upon questions affecting the Protestant Church. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. O'Connell) had alluded lo him in a manner, which, if it had not been for the declaration of the hon. and learned
 259
 Mr. O'Dwyer  seconded the Amendment, and complimented the Bishop of Derry for the patience with which he had long suffered a sort of political proscription on account of his supporting the claims of the Catholics.
 Mr. Harvey  complained, that the principle of the measure had been entirely lost sight of in the midst of personalities. It was evident, he thought, that the statement of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, as to Mr. O'Connell's avowal of a particular motive for voting against the measure, could not be correct, after the hon. and learned Gentleman's disclaimer of any such avowal. He (Mr. Harvey) found fault with the measure, because it did not adequately
 297 l l l 298 l l l l l 299 300
 Mr. Hume  declared that for the reason assigned by some hon. Members for supporting the Bill—namely, that it was calculated
 295
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  rose to second what was formerly his own Motion, and he did so with regret that those principles had been so long unattended to by those who were pledged to their maintenance. He regretted,
 272 273
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion; and if it were only for the sake of getting rid of the inconvenience and abuses attending the present system of translation, he would support the proposition.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  said, that being the representative of an agricultural county, he felt it due to his constituents to vote for this measure.
 Mr. William Gladstone  did not wish to shelter himself, on this occasion, under a
 293 Hear, hear 294
 Mr. Finn  opposed the proposition of his hon. and learned friend, which he thought a most extraordinary one, coming from Church reformers. If there was any great debt of gratitude due from the Catholics to the right reverend Prelate, they ought to pay it out of their own purses. He would reduce the whole of the incomes, but he would make no exception of this kind on the ground stated.
 Mr. Gillon  could not resist the last opportunity which was afforded him of making an improvement in the Bill consonant to
 302 l
 Mr. Peter  said, that he did not rise to reply to the hon. Gentleman, who had just addressed the. House. That was wholly unnecessary; for, with all the respect which he entertained for his talents, he could not refrain from saying, that a speech less applicable to its professed purpose—a speech more irrelevant to the subject of debate—he had never heard within the walls of that House. It was to the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, that he chiefly addressed himself. The Amendment proposed by him, he (Mr. Peter) considered as most unnecessary and uncalled for. It could effect no possible good, and might be productive of much mischief. Here was a Bill, which whether considered on principles of policy or justice—which, though attacked by some as going too far, and by others as not going far enough—which, even according to the admission of the hon. member for St. Alban's, was a great boon, a great benefit to Ireland; and should we foolishly throw it into jeopardy—should we unnecessarily endanger its safety—should we hazard its very substance—for a mere shadow? The hon. and learned member for Tipperary, as well as his friend the member for Middlesex, had each referred to a debate of 1825, and to the opinions expressed in it by many Gentlemen on that side of the House. In those opinions he fully concurred. He believed Church property to be national property, and, as such, to be applicable by Parliament to national purposes. But though such were the opinions of many, they were not the opinions of all. Some there might be, both within those walls and elsewhere, who had come to a
 280 cuncta prius tentanda 281 282
 Mr. Ward  thought, that the House ought to adopt the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman, if they wished that Ireland should be a means of strength to this country, instead of being, as she was at this moment, a cause of weakness and anxiety. All the differences of Ireland might be settled, if justice was fairly done between the people and the church Establishment. He agreed with those who thought that this Motion was rendered necessary by the fact of the clause having been once introduced; but he was willing at the same time to say, on behalf of the Minister, that much of the importance now properly attributed to the clause, was probably owing more to the manner in which it had been taken up by the House, than to any other circumstance. Hon. Members—and he among the rest—had received what they deemed to be an assertion of the just powers of the State in so marked a manner—cheering it so as to draw down on the noble Lord the reproof of the right hon. Baronet opposite—that they had at once leaped to a conclusion, which, perhaps, the Ministers had done their best to avoid, and indeed to disclaim; but which they most readily, and joyfully adopted. They did this the more readily when they observed that Lay Commissioners were to be appointed to administer funds proceeding from the church. It was not wonderful, then, that the people had taken up their tone, and not being able, like themselves, to receive rapidly new lights upon any particular subject, had not been capable of following them with equal speed in the change that had since occurred. The result was, that the people were now disappointed with the Bill, or would be so, if this clause should now be omitted. If the clause had not been introduced at all, the people might have thought that, in the opinion of parliament, the time had not arrived when such a principle could be advantageously asserted; but having been introduced, and most cordially received, it was impossible that they could entertain such an opinion. The fact was, that the clause was another instance of that fatality which seemed to attend all the measures that were introduced for the relief of Ireland. There was a good deal of reason in what had been said by Dean Swift about England and Ireland. Dean Swift observed, that in all matters relating to the Government of Ireland, England expected to be addressed in terms,
 277 "Forbid it, Heaven, my life should be" Weighed with her least conveniency." 278 279
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that the speech of the hon. member for St. Alban's (Mr. Ward) might have been introduced with much greater propriety into a discussion on Catholic Emancipation than a debate on the subject now under the consideration of the House. He begged to remind the hon. Member that Church Property in Ireland had a very different foundation from canal and rail-road property. It was established by the treaty of union. The hon. Member had repeated an assertion which had been made for the thousandth and first time in that House, that the Roman Catholic people were obliged to pay for the support of the Irish Church. That he begged for the thousandth and first time to deny. It was the property and not the people of that country which paid for the maintenance of the Church.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was prepared to support the Amendment, without reference to the political principles of the right reverend Prelate for whom the hon. and learned member for Dublin had been pleading. He would not be a party to diminishing the income of a single clergyman, much less to leaving a right reverend Prelate a solitary exception to the rule applied to all other persons of his rank and importance in the Church.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that before the hon. and learned Gentleman had made this attack upon him, the hon. and learned Gentleman should have had some grounds for supposing that he was aware of the existence of a letter which had appeared so many years ago in the newspapers. If he had been aware of the circumstances contained in that letter, he should certainly not have alluded to Dr. Ponsonby's name being attached to that petition; but he declared, upon his honour as a gentleman, that up to that moment he had not been at all aware of them. The petition had not been brought to him till that evening; and the hon. and learned Gentleman, who knew of the existence of that petition, and of all the circumstances connected with it, ought, in speaking of the uniform advocacy which the Bishop of Derry had given to liberal principles, to have explained the manner in which the right reverend Prelate had been betrayed into this seeming inconsistency.
 Sir Robert Peel  took the same view of this question as the right hon. Secretary for the colonies. He should, however, be extremely sorry, if, in so doing, he should be supposed to mean anything derogatory from the high character of the Bishop of Derry. As that right reverend Prelate had received his first appointment to a Bishopric when be (Sir R. Peel) was Secretary of Stale, it was clear, that he could have but one opinion as to his merits. He could not, however, consent to the
 286 l l
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to express Ids opinion, that the right hon. Gentleman deserved credit for not having advised the Crown to assume the whole patronage of the Church. He was of opinion, that no better system could be devised than that which placed the responsibility of making a proper election of clergymen upon twenty-two individuals, in every way qualified to carry into effect the intentions of the Legislature. At the same time, he objected to the power which the Bishops' tenants were to possess, of changing the leases by which they now held land into perpetuities. Some of the Bishops had let their lands for a mere trifle, and in such cases, for a mere trifle, the tenant would, by this Bill, acquire the fee-simple of the property. He would suggest, that they should guard against such cases.
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the day for the third reading of the Church Temporalities' (Ireland) Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shiel) had commenced his speech by quoting the speeches of others. He knew this was a fashionable mode of debate, but he was sure, that those who debated thus ought to take good care that an answer from some of their own displays might not be found for them. He spoke impartially on this point, for the hon. Gentleman could never quote any speech of his (Lord Althorp's); and, at all events, the utmost that could result from such a practice was an injury to the mere party concerned. If the hon. Gentleman quoted a good argument, that would be very well; but a speech quoted was not of value. ["As an authority,"  from Mr. Shiel 274 l 275
 Mr. James  wished to ask the noble Lord a question respecting the inequality of the Assessments for Taxes. There
 376
 Mr. Baring  rose to order. By a stretch of courtesy, and a straining of the rules of the House in his favour, the hon. Gentleman was permitted to put a question to the noble Lord opposite. If, however, he entered into an argument on the subject when an interrogatory only was permitted, he (Mr. Baring) thought the House for its own sake ought to interfere.
 Mr. James  replied, that he had not taken up a single moment in the House during the Session, and he did not mean to occupy the attention of the House but for a few moments. The noble Lord must have observed that the argument against—
 The Speaker : The hon. Member certainly knows the distinction between argument and statement. If he had any question to put to the noble Lord, he was in order in doing so; but he could not be permitted to go into any argument upon a subject not before the House.
 Mr. James : He wished, then, to ask the noble Lord, if his Majesty's Ministers had authorized the assessments that had been made?
 Lord Althorp  thought, that it would have been apparent to every one from the discussions which took place on the Reform Bill, that all persons who claimed to vote as proprietors or occupiers at 10 l 377
 Mr. Baring  said, that as there was so much important business for determination in the present Session, it might, perhaps, save time, if he were to ask the noble Lord whether it was his intention merely to state his views on the question before the House, and then postpone the matter until the next Session, or to pass any part of the Bill in the present Session?
 Lord Althorp  said, it was his intention to omit every part of the Bill which was compulsory, and to retain those which were merely permissive. The Bill consisted of two parts—the first permissory, by which composition for tithes and liberty to contract for their commutation, was permitted and encouraged; the second compulsory, which made commutation imperative. The latter part he proposed to omit altogether, because he was aware, that a great deal of opposition existed to it in the country, where people had not thought much about tithe composition until he introduced the Bill. Therefore he would omit all the clauses subsequent to the 12th, with the exception of one or two, which he should explain to the Committee. Before the hon. Gentleman opposite originated a discussion on the present question, the hon. Gentleman would do well to wait for the Bill, as he should propose it to the Committee.
 Mr. Baring  was of opinion, from the noble Lord's own explanation, that in consequence of the number of important questions before the House it would be better to postpone the Bill altogether to next Session. This was a subject which he hoped the House would decide on its own merits, for it affected the peace and tranquillity, as well as the property of the country; and no Gentleman in that House could be suspected of supporting it, or any part of it, on any other grounds than for the public good. Certainly, if the noble Lord had been able to bring it in at a proper period of the Session, he (Mr. Baring) should have looked upon it as a most desirable measure for the House to take into consideration; and he knew, that there was no person in the House move capable of
 378 379
 Lord Althorp  was surprised at the observations of his hon. friend as to the time at which this Bill had been read a second time, it was by no means unusual to dispose of Bills, at such a stage, in such a way, without at all prejudicing the right of hon. Members to object to their details, and he was, therefore, he again said, surprised to have heard such an objection urged upon the present occasion. His hon. friend had been pleased to compliment him as very competent to bring forward a measure upon this subject and to say that the Bill would have been much more satisfactory had it not been for the pressure of official duties. He could not take the compliment intended by his hon. friend, because he had given to this subject all the attention of which he was capable before the commencement of the Session, and had brought forward the best measure he could frame. He had taken into his consideration a great number of suggestions, and had endeavoured to frame a Bill liable to the fewest exceptions. He again said, that he was prepared to give up the compulsory part of the measure, but he was desirous of carrying the permissive part of it to discover the objections which might exist. Suggestions had been made for taking the valuations of tithes, on the amount of the rent; lint this he believed to be a mode very difficult of adoption, as in many cases it would be
 380
 Mr. Herries  suggested to his hon. friend, the member for Essex, that it would be better to withdraw his opposition at the present stage of the Bill, and reserve it for a future time, when it would be before the House in an amended form. Before sitting down he begged leave to call the attention of the House to the position in which the various Committees were placed by the order which passed the House a few days since. Under present circumstances, there were several Committees which were in doubt as to whether it was competent for them to sit while the House was thus proceeding with the business.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, he would have joined in the opposition to this Bill, if the compulsory part was to have been pressed forward; but as this was not the case, he should take no exception to the Motion for going into Committee. He could have wished, however, that, instead of such a Bill as this, the noble Lord had introduced a simple Bill, giving permission for tithe-receivers and tithe-payers to make a commutation for twenty-one years. This would materially have facilitated a permanent settlement of the measure, which he did not anticipate from the present Bill.
 Mr. Estcourt  agreed with his hon. friends who intended to withdraw their opposition at the present stage of the Bill; but he was of opinion, that the Bill should be ultimately postponed until the House was in possession of further information.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that whether the measure which his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed, in relation to the present ques-
 381
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  as the Representative of a large agricultural constituency, might be permitted to say a few words on the subject before the House. His hon. friend, the member for Essex, did right, he thought, in withdrawing his Amendment until the plan proposed by Government was fairly before the House. Until then they could hardly decide, with any show of reason, upon its merits. He could not, however, help thinking that his noble friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, did perfectly right in expunging the compulsory clauses from his Bill. He would take that opportunity of protesting against the hon. member for Newcastle's plan of commutation for twenty-one years. He thought it neither wise nor feasible. Every man could learn the price for the past twenty-one years; but no man could tell what would be the price for the twenty-one years ensuing.
 Mr. Charles Kemeys Tynte , as Representative for a large agricultural district, begged to assure the hon. member for Essex, that the Bill had been sufficiently circulated through the county he had the honour of representing, to cause petitions to have been sent in masses against it. He thought the noble Lord, the Chancellor
 382
 Major Beauclerk  agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the noble Lord had done well to postpone the compulsory part of the Bill. The House had passed the Session most un-profitably. They had passed Coercion Bills and other measures of a similar nature, but not one measure of public utility. He was glad that the noble Lord had put off that part of his measure which would have met the expectations of neither party. If the noble Lord thought that he possessed sufficient enchantments to win the affections of both parties, he would find himself mistaken. It was vain to suppose, that without compulsion it would be possible to bring the Clergy and their parishioners to a fair and equitable arrangement. This was a question of paying and receiving taxes, and in all such questions it was impossible to lead to a fair settlement, by attempting to please both parties. He hoped the noble Lord would wait until next Session, when, perhaps, by pursuing a straight forward course, the noble Lord might do justice to both parties, without exactly consulting the pleasure of either. pro formâ
 Mr. Lloyd , as a member of the Committee, would give the Amendment his most decided opposition. The definition was the only really important part of the Bill, and had been agreed to almost unanimously by the Committee. He was sorry the hon. Member who proposed the Amendment, had not attended the meeting
 383
 Mr. Lloyd  observed, that if he thought the tendency of the Bill would be to injure manufacturers, he should be the last man to support it: but he was convinced it would have a directly contrary effect. He hoped, for the honour of the county of Lancaster, that the House would receive a denial of the statements made by the hon. Member.
 Mr. O'Connell  was extremely glad to find, that the noble Lord who had just sat down did not directly oppose the Motion; but that, as far as feelings went, there was perfect unanimity upon this most important subject. Many of the observations of the noble Lord deserved the highest applause. Some of them were, perhaps, to be regretted; but he (Mr. O'Connell) would not say, that there was anything to be censured. He was sincerely glad to find, that all parties in the British House of Commons joined in condemning the cruel, barbarous, and abominable conduct of Russia towards the people of Poland. He (Mr. O'Connell) had on a former occasion applied the term miscreant to the Emperor Nicholas, and though an hon. Baronet then thought proper to censure him for the use of such an epithet, the hon. Baronet's own description of the conduct of this individual—this miscreant—justified the application which he had made of the term, unless indeed a stronger epithet, an epithet more expressive of the atrocity of his conduct, could
 441 442 443 Movement
 Mr. Secretary Stanley , far from condemning the warmth of expression which had been used in reference to the treatment of the unfortunate Poles, considered it honourable to the House and to the country. But they were bound to ask what effect the course which they were by this Motion called upon to pursue, was likely to have on our already delicate and complicated foreign relations. The hon. member for Middlesex, and his hon. and learned friend who had introduced the Motion, declared they had no wish whatever to force the country into a war; but the House was bound to look, not at intentions, but at probable consequences. And he would ask, if it were probable, that the proposed Address, coupled as it was with speeches, in which the Emperor of Russia was so personally attacked, by the grossest abuse, could go forth otherwise than as a direct offence and personal insult, and as a provocation to war and enmity?
 456 457 Hon. Member:
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, that the expression of detestation of the conduct of Russia which had been heard in the House that evening, only echoed the sentiments of the country at large. It was, in his opinion, a proof of the weakness of the position which Ministers had thought proper to assume upon this question, that they had done little else than endeavour to ridicule the opinions expressed by the hon. member for Birmingham. The constant appeals which they had made respecting the danger of war, when nothing of the kind was contemplated, were merely  ad captandum 458
 Lord Granville Somerset  thought, that the objections to proceeding with this Bill, this Session, were unanswerable. The Bill might be made useful; but to be useful it must be materially altered. It ought to be withdrawn; and if introduced in another Session, he trusted that many of the clauses would be materially altered, particularly as regarded manufacturers.
 Lord John Russell  said, that although his Majesty's Ministers might possibly concur in the sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. and learned Member who had brought forward the Motion, it was their duty to protest against the language made use of by the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. He agreed with his hon. and learned friend, who brought forward the Motion, that there had been a violation of the Treaty of Vienna on the part of Russia; but, nevertheless, the hon. and learned member for Dublin was not justified in applying the epithets "wretch," "brute," and "monster," to a Sovereign with whom his Majesty was on terms of amity. Were the Motion carried accompanied by such
 444 445
 Mr. Rotch  said, no clause had received more attention by the Committee than the one under consideration; for, knowing it to be the almost vital one, they had spent hours and days in drawing it up. His hon. and learned friend had said, that the law as it at present stood was clear and definite enough. Now how did that stand? Why the books showed that no two Judges took the same view of it, which led to great difficulties.
 Mr. Finch  said, the Bill was a Statute of protection; it ensured to the poor man one-seventh of his time as was done by the common law of the land. It ought, however, to have been brought in earlier.
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, he had presented many petitions on this subject, urging well-founded complaints. Various operatives represented that they had no opportunity of observing the Sabbath; the like was the complaint with large bodies of manufacturers; and surely those classes ought to have some remedy for such a grievance. He doubted, however, whether it could be passed this Session.
 Mr. Aglionby  was an advocate for paying ingenuity, but there were daily taking place throughout the trade of the country minor improvements, which he considered the present Bill would have a tendency to check.
 Mr. Aglionby  was afraid that the Bill would prevent the increase of improvement in manufacture, and be productive of endless litigation. He wished that the further consideration of the Bill should be postponed till the next Session, and he called upon the House on behalf of the manufacturers of the country, to postpone the Bill. He was quite satisfied that the whole county of Lancaster would rise up against it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he should feel less induced than at present to oppose the Motion, if it repealed or counteracted the numerous and contradictory Acts already in existence. But the repeal was not confined to restrictive Acts, it revoked also some Acts of indulgence. For instance, there was, in one Act of Parliament, a proviso by which
 390
 Mr. Warburton  believed that the effect of the Bill in its present state, whatever might be the hon. Member's wishes, would be such as he had stated; and this was only one of the many enactments to which he must give the most uncompromising opposition. Again, by the present laws, the sale of mackerel on Sundays was allowed. But the Bill would put that down. Did the hon. member for Bodmin mean to compel the fishermen to observe the Jewish Sabbath, and to work upon the Christian Sabbath, for the Monday market. It would be of little use for them to fish upon the Saturday if they were not allowed to sell what they caught upon the Sunday, unless they did it for mere amusement and threw the fish upon the dunghill. The hon. member for Bodmin did not seem to be aware that there must be very numerous exceptions to any general measure of this kind. There were a great many of the most indispensable employments which could not be laid aside on the Sabbath. The shepherd must attend to his flocks just as much on Sunday as on any other day of the week; and the navigation of a ship upon the seas could not be suspended to enable the crew to obey the hon. Member's Bill. If the Legislature attempted to interfere too far and too minutely, the law would become a dead letter and a matter of derision, rather than of respect and obedience. If the Bill were to pass in its present state, nothing could be worse calculated to ensure the Observance of the Sabbath, in the way in which the hon. Member himself (Mr. Peter) desired it to be observed. There was one clause which forbade the navigation of barges on the Sabbath. But was not the hon. Member aware, that on many rivers, and some of them communicating with the river Thames, there were shallows over which barges could pass only on the Sunday, when the mills were not at work, and the water being consequently let down from the mill-dams afforded sufficient depth for the barges? The hon. Member (Mr. Peter) had said, that his Bill did not interfere with the recreations
 391
 Mr. Warburton  certainly saw somewhere in the Bill a clause which would have the effect of which he complained, and it gave besides an encouragement to informers to cause it to be enforced. However, he thought that the Bill ought to be allowed to pass this stage. He was not disposed to deal with it as the Bill of the hon. Baronet (Sir Andrew Agnew) near him had been dealt with. But even this Bill would require very great alteration before he could consent to its becoming the law; and he was by no means certain, that it was possible to make the necessary changes in the present Session.
 Mr. Warburton  said, there was not one word in the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, who brought forward this question, and not one step in his argument, in which he did not concur: but it was one thing to entertain such opinions as an individual, and another thing for the Legislature to express them in a recorded vote, unless it was prepared to follow up the vote by an appeal to arms. The question, therefore, which he put to the House was this; was it prepared to support the vote by an appeal to arms? Was it prepared to see the Government come down to the House with a proposal to take such a course in the present state of this country and of Europe? The pledges which his Majesty's Government had given to the country on taking office he had approved of; and as the vote must compel the Government to hold a language towards Russia, which would be anything but conciliatory, and must lead to warfare, he could not support it. If the House were to say, that the Poles shall be free, that they shall have a Constitution, was that an attainable object? Did those who looked to an alliance with France against Russia, Prussia, and Austria, think the object attainable? He doubted whether it was. If we went to war, we ought to have a precise object in view; that object was not to ward off an invasion of India, or a partition of Turkey, but to secure to Poland independence and a constitution. Even if the object were attainable, it could be attained only at a vast sacrifice, and all hopes of internal improvement must be adjourned to a distant day. He could not concur a vote which would lead to such a result as war, of all possible evils the greatest.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that the deep interest which he felt in the subject now before the House, had made him anxious to deliver his sentiments upon it at an earlier stage of the debate. But he did not at all regret his having given way to others, as every successive speech delivered, only tended to confirm him more and more in the propriety of supporting the Motion now submitted to their consideration. If the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced this question (Mr. Cutlar Fergus-son) had convinced his judgment, by the historical evidence which he had produced, and interested his feelings by the melancholy and touching details with which he followed this up, in support of his Motion, he must say, that the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had served even still more to satisfy him of the necessity of such a Motion as that now proposed; and if the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin had roused his indignation at the atrocities to which he alluded—the speech of the noble Lord the Paymaster of the Forces (Lord John Russell) had strengthened his conviction of the necessity of pronouncing a solemn opinion on the conduct thus brought under review. With the permission of the House, then, he would briefly state the reason which induced him to give his cordial support to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and the grounds on which he would entreat him not to withdraw it, however strongly he might be urged to such a course, but to persevere in his determination to press it to a division, by whomsoever it might be opposed. I He conceived it to be both the duty and the interest of England to exert the full weight of her influence on behalf of the unhappy Poles; first on the broad principles of justice and humanity; secondly, on the grounds of national honour and national safety; and thirdly, for the preservation
 446 447 448 449 450 Moscow Gazette 451 452 453
 Mr. Hume  protested, that there was no-body more anxious to keep the country from getting into war than himself; but he was surprised at the course just taken by his hon. friend, the member for Bridport. Did his hon. and learned friend, who made the
 455
 Mr. Bernal  gave every credit to the hon. Member who brought in the Bill for his meritorious and praiseworthy intentions, but he doubted very much whether the evil would not be increased tenfold by the measure. It could not be expected that sufficient consideration could be given to the Bill, so as to correct its faulty clauses, at that late period of the Session. He thought, that the best mode of increasing moral and religious feelings was by good example. But the Bill did not at all promote that, for by it the poor man would be prevented from commencing a journey, however urgent, at certain hours in the morning, by a stage-coach, while there was nothing to prevent Gentlemen from following their own wishes or duties by the employment of post-horses and nothing to prevent them from travelling at any hour. Could it be borne, that a person wishing to visit a sick or dying friend, for instance, should be prevented from doing so on the Sabbath, until a certain hour, unless he could afford to hire post-horses?
 392
 Mr. Godson  said, that he had received letters from almost every county in England, proposing an alteration in the law on the subject of patents, but more especially from Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds, at which places, as well as at London, public meetings had been held, and the greatest anxiety displayed on the subject. The object of the Bill was the protection of the poor but ingenious inventor, who, from want of capital, was encroached upon by the rich.
 Mr. Godson  thought it was important, for the security of inventions, that the law on the subject should be settled. He hoped his hon. friend would not press his Motion, but would allow the Report of the Committee to be made. The recommendation of the Select Committee was, that the Bill be divided into two Bills.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he thought the Government ought rather to have dissuaded the hon. member for Kircudbright, from bringing forward his Motion at all, than now to suggest the propriety of withdrawing it. The noble Lord, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, had made two most important admissions—first, that the greatest horrors had been perpetrated and committed in Poland; and, secondly, that a treaty had been violated. Such admissions being made, was it proper that the House of Commons should not come to some decision upon the subject? Or, should not such a decision be come to, it might well be said, that the British Legislature refused to interfere, when the most monstrous outrages upon humanity by Russia were permitted to pass without notice. The hazard of a war had been urged upon one side as an argument against the Motion; but it should be remembered, that, on the other hand, the certainty of the loss of national honour presented itself in opposition. The inferiority of Russia, as compared with this country, was acknowledged; and could it then be said, that the British Legislature was only to make speeches, and leave Poland to perish? There had been expressed a convenient sympathy for the
 459
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he had brought forward the Motion after due and deliberate consideration, and having done so, it was his intention to adhere to it. The step he had taken in submitting the Resolution he had moved was one which he was justified in taking, and having done so, he should not hesitate to bring the question to the test of a division. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Colonies, had, instead of answering his (Mr. Fergusson's) arguments, addressed his observations entirely to the hon. Gentleman who had most widely departed from the question before the House, and the whole tenor of the right hon. Gentleman's speech was calculated to deter Members from bringing any Motion of such a nature before the House. He must, however, remind hon. Members, that neither in his speech nor by the terms of his Motion, did he call for war; indeed, the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had gone much further than he had done. The noble Lord's declaration was most extraordinary, because the noble Lord had acknowledged, that he would have gone much further than the Resolution, and had voluntarily declared to Russia that she had violated a treaty, and had persisted in that declaration after such an interpretation of the treaty had been denied by that power. What he wanted was, a record of the solemn opinion of the House upon this topic, and to gain the
 460
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that it was now twelve months since he had for the second time called the attention of the House to the present unfortunate condition of Poland, to the wrongs and sufferings of her brave and heroic people, and to the claims which they had to the protection of this country, which was by a solemn treaty pledged to the independence of Poland. He rose once more to submit a Motion upon that subject, which he hoped that the Ministers would not consider it either their duty or their interest to oppose. He had no wish to embarrass the Government, nor did he think that the success of his Motion would have that effect, but on the contrary, it would strengthen their position as regarded Russia, and enable them more effectually to obtain redress for Poland, if they had it in their power to say, that the British House of Commons considered the conduct of Russia towards Poland to be in contravention of the tenor of existing treaties. The Motion which he intended to conclude with was as follows:—"That a humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased not to recognize, or in any way give the sanction of his Government, to the present political state and condition of Poland, the same having been brought about in violation of the Treaty of Vienna to which Great Britain was a party." When the Hungarian Diet at the very gates of Vienna had ventured to protest against the attempt of Russia to blot Poland out of the map of Europe, surely the British House of Commons would not hesitate to act the same liberal part. The world expected of England, and of England's House of Commons, that they should raise their voices against the usurpation thus daringly perpetrated in the face of Europe. It was expected by the whole nation, it was expected by all Europe that the Parliament of Britain should declare its reprobation of the outrage committed against the laws of nations and in violation of a treaty to which Great Britain had been a party. The question before the House was not that they should engage in war, but merely that a declaration to the effect which he had stated, should be put forth, and that they should state, that Russia had been guilty of a shameful infraction of treaties. He felt
 396 397 398 399 400 401 surveillance 402 regime 403 404 405 procès verbal 406 407 408 409 410 ci-devant 411 412 413 414 Polish Record was 415 * * 416
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  presented two Petitions—one from the Glasgow Political Association, and the other from the inhabitants of Birmingham—praying the House to interfere in order that the Polish nation might be restored to independence.
 Mr. Slaney  seconded the Motion. The Bill was not altogether a perfect one, but its imperfections might be remedied in Committee, and relieving the Statute-book of seventeen or eighteen inoperative Statutes and framing out of them one like the present, was an act which did the hon. Member no small credit. As he had said, there were one or two details to which he should object in the committee more particularly with reference to the novelties introduced into it, several of which, by their over-strictness, were more calculated to throw an air of ridicule over the observance of the Sabbath, and to make the law inoperative than otherwise. The Bill steered a fair course between extreme severity and extreme laxity of legislation upon a subject, regarding which the feelings of the people had been distinctly manifested by their petitions to this House; and it was from the extreme anxiety which he felt to avoid too great strictness in legislation upon this question, that he ventured to support this measure. In addition to these considerations, he would merely observe, that some legislative enactment was necessary as to the observance of the Sabbath for the sake of the humbler classes. If the Bill went to trench upon the rational and necessary recreations of the middling and labouring classes on the Sabbath, it would be a great evil, and would encroach upon one of the greatest blessings which that portion of the community now enjoyed. But they must take care that the higher classes
 389
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  seconded the Motion. The history of Poland inspired the most heroic sentiments. So imbued was her soil with the blood of Patriots, that John Sobieski once said, if you grasp a handful of it, it will distil drops of gore. It was customary in England to speak of Poland as a land of slaves. But it was a great mistake to suppose that slavery was common in Poland. That kingdom had never been reduced to slavery. There was no word in the language to express "slave;" they had no nearer approach to it than the words expressing "prisoner of war." It was only from choice the serf was attached to the soil—not from the operation of slavery. Poland had suffered much—she had contended in many wars—she had attained most glorious distinction; but she had, till her friends destroyed her, always been free. The very motto which had been adopted by Poland, and which, he hoped, would yet bring her through her difficulties, proved the love of liberty—"Poland is not lost as long as we have life." Poland had always, until the usurpation of Russia, enjoyed national and political independence. He would not speak of the horrible cruelties of the emperor Nicholas, he would only remind the House of the vast encroachments of Russia, and of the necessity of England, for her own safety, setting bounds to the further aggrandisement of the barbarian. He had, within the last 150 years extended his arms on all sides, and now embraced half the world. England ought now to interfere, because, as the hon. and learned Member had
 417 418 l 419 420 l l l toto imperio certare 421 surveillance l 422 423
 Mr. Estcourt  approved of the principle of the Bill, but not of its details. He hoped his hon. friend would withdraw it for the present Session, and introduce it next Session in more than one Bill.
 Mr. Peter  said, he had no objection to send the Bill to a Committee above stairs, and adjourn till the next Session, after those parts had been corrected which were deemed objectionable.
 Mr. Peter  explained that the clause referred to was mistaken by the hon. member for Bridport; barges and wherries were to be prohibited only from carrying "goods" for hire on the Sabbath.
 Mr. Peter  explained that the hon. member for Bridport was in error. It was meant to leave the law precisely as it stood on that point.
 Mr. Peter , having presented petitions from Lutterworth and Pimlico for the better Observance of the Sabbath, moved the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of the Bill for the better Observance of the Sabbath.
 Mr. Peter  said, though it might be regretted that the subject had not fallen into abler hands—into hands more competent and accustomed to labours of that kind—he felt assured, that,—with the wishes of the people so strongly expressed as they had been on the question—with so many petitions lying on the Table from all parts of the kingdom, and from all classes of the community—the House would concur with him in thinking, that the time had arrived for considering the subject, for revising the existing Laws in relation to the Sabbath, and for modifying and amending their several provisions in such manner as might seem most consistent with the true interests, and most conformable to the just feelings and habits of society. In whatever way they approached the subject—whether they regarded the Sabbath as of divine, or of human institution—whether they considered it as a day set apart for religious and moral improvement, or for mere purposes of bodily rest and worldly relaxation—in whatever view they contemplated the subject—the House, he was confident, would concur with him,—it would concur with a much higher authority than his—(he meant that of the learned commentator on the Laws of England)—that the observance of one day out of seven was of essential service to a State—that it tended to humanize the manners of the lower classes, which might otherwise degenerate into sordid ferocity and selfishness of spirit.—that it enabled the industrious tradesman and labourer
 385 386 387 388
 Sir Andrew Agnew  reminded the House of the remarks of the hon. member for Cheshire, who alluded to the petitions which he had himself presented, from men actually working on canals in his county, and which showed that they were desirous of a day of rest. This entitled him to say, that much false sentiment had been uttered about the indulgence and pleasures of the lower orders. The fact was, that all the false sentiment which had been spoken about Sunday indulgence had only reference to the pleasures of the upper and middle classes, while the actual lower or working classes were left altogether out of the account: for instance, it might be very agreeable to gentlemen of the upper classes to travel in their own carriages to Richmond, and those of the middle classes might find it agreeable to go there by public coaches; but would the House keep in mind that there was another class—the working class—the ostlers, horse keepers, and all other operatives connected with travelling, who had petitioned that House for protection on the day of rest, and which was now no day of rest to them? He took this as an illustration, and he warned hon. Members who had laid on the Table so many petitions (signed chiefly by the humble classes), and who were about to return to their constituents, who had manifested so much anxiety on this subject, that such a Bill as that now before them would not meet the wishes of their constituents. Opposed to all this false sentiment, this morbid sensibility, he stood there as the advocate of the poor man, now in many trades condemned
 394
 Sir Harry Verney  complimented the hon. and learned member for Kircudbright, for the excellent manner in which he had introduced the question to the House, and regretted, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had taken such a different view, and should have represented this question as a question of making war upon Russia, and as if he were prepared for that alternative. Certainly, if England had any thing to fear from any power, it was from Russia; and he regretted, that the hon. Member should have described her as a barbarian power. He wished she was a barbarian power. There was, however, no power which adopted such wise means to attain its ends as Russia. She was intent on promoting civilization, extending commerce, and establishing in every part of her empire the most useful institutions. She sent abroad the most enlightened of her citizens to collect correct information of the improvements of other countries. Did the hon. member for Birmingham know, that steam-boats were navigating on the Wolga, and that you might travel in Russia with almost as much facility as in the United States of America? The hon. Member had libelled Mr. Canning, for never, in that statesman's time, did any power insult England without that insult being resented. He regretted, that the House should have been diverted, by the observations of the hon. Member, from the excellent speech of the hon. and learned Member who brought forward the Motion; for it was of great importance to give a temperate and firm support to the cause of Poland. Poland was the only power which could form a barrier against Russia, and preserve that balance of power which it was the interest of England, and all other European states to preserve. Napoleon had said, that
 424
 Mr. Jervis  objected to that part of the Bill which contained the definition of a patent, and moved an Amendment.
 Sir Robert Inglis , after eulogising the speech of the hon. and learned member for Kircudbright, expressed his regret that any person should have diverted the attention of the House from that speech:—a speech combining better taste, better feeling, and higher talent he had never heard. On a former occasion when the subject was introduced, he felt reluctant to come forward and state his opinion, particularly after the language used towards the Sovereign of Russia—language unblamed by his Majesty's Ministers. He regretted to hear it, because he thought that no language ought to be used in that House respecting any of the Sovereigns of Europe, allies of the King, which could not be uttered in the presence of their representatives. He had on that occasion carefully abstained from giving any opinion on the subject of Poland itself. He would now say, that he thought the cause of Poland was the cause of Europe and of Christian civilization. The Emperor had unwarrantably assumed a power over it which was equally condemned by the law of nations and repudiated by facts. He had assumed that he possessed it by right of conquest; and he might as well have applied that assumption to Paris, or to any other place which his armies had ever entered. The phrase applied to it in the Organic Statute, which was on the Table of the House, was, that Poland, by the law of conquest, was possessed by Russia. The phrase was: "The Kingdom of Poland once heretofore conquered by the victorious arms of Russia." But the fact was, as it had been stated by his hon. friend, that Russia held Poland by a compact with other powers. The Emperor Nicholas held it by the same right as the Emperor Alexander; and Alexander held it on the ground to which
 425 426 427 428 The Morning Post 429 430 431 432
 Sir Robert Peel  had not the slightest notion that the hon. and learned Member had risen to reply, but merely to answer a question put to him, or he should have interposed before the hon. Gentleman had spoken. He was aware of the inconvenience of speaking after a reply, but the hon. Gentleman having expressed his determination to press the Motion to a division, that circumstance imposed upon him the duty of stating the grounds upon which he could not acquiesce in the Motion. He did not deny the right of the House to offer advice to the Crown with reference to the diplomatic relations of the country. He could conceive circumstances to arise of so grave a nature as to impose upon the House the duty of declaring its opinion and tendering its advice to the Crown; but he must contend, that the House ought to have a clear foresight of all the consequences which might ensue from their intercession. Care ought to betaken not to trench upon the royal prerogative, without a clear perception of the necessity of such a step: nor without scrupulously and carefully weighing the probable results of the interposition. Above all there ought to be nothing equivocal or ambiguous in the advice tendered to the Crown. The import of the present Motion, however, was in his judgment equivocal and ambiguous. It contained two distinct propositions; first, that this country was party to the Treaty of Vienna; and secondly, that that treaty had been violated. If the House were prepared to place this Motion upon record, the next step surely ought to be to offer some advice to the Crown, in language, clear and decisive, as to the course to be pursued. If this question related distinctly to any interest of our own, what language, consistently with the dignity and honour of England, would be used by the House? It would say to his Majesty—"Your Majesty is a party to a treaty—that treaty has been violated—the national honour is implicated—and we, the House of Commons, demand redress." But what was the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman in which advice was tendered? Not that the Crown should enforce the observance of those rights of Poland of which Eng-
 461 brutum fulmen 462 463
 Lord Althorp  had trusted, that his hon. and learned friend would have been content with the statements of his two noble friends, and that he would not have pressed his Motion. The House was well aware, that one of the principles upon which his Majesty's present Government took office was, the preservation of peace. His hon. and learned friend, however, seemed disappointed by the tone which his Majesty's Government assumed towards Russia respecting Poland. He seemed to think that his Majesty's Government ought to have gone further. How they could have gone further without involving this country in war, he (Lord Althorp) knew not. He could assure his hon. and learned friend, that his Majesty's Government had not been actuated by any pusillanimous fear of war. But when they knew, that the governments of Prussia and Austria differed from them, they felt, that if war were entered into at all, it would extend over Europe; that, in fact, it would be a war between England and France on the one side, and all the northern Powers of Europe on the other. He did not mean to say that he should entertain any fear of success in such a contest; for he always felt, that if France and England were united, they need not fear all the Powers in the world. But although he did not fear the event of such a contest, he well knew, that it must be attended with such calamities, that he sincerely hoped, such an event would never occur. What was the Address? A statement of the opinion of that House, that the emperor of Russia had been guilty of a violation of the treaty of Vienna. Now, what answer could his Majesty be advised to give to such an Address; or what conduct could he be advised to pursue? It was quite impossible that his Majesty's Government should consent to become parties to such a vote, and not follow it up by some strong measure,
 454
 Lord Ebrington  interrupted the hon. Member and said, he had a petition to present which he was afraid could not be received, but as he had been asked to present it he could not do otherwise than mention it to the House. It was from the members of the National Committee of Polish Emigrants at Paris. It was signed by several distinguished persons but he
 395
 Viscount Palmerston  thought, that his hon. and learned friend needed no apology for having introduced the present question, for he knew of no subject which deserved more to command the attention and engage the sympathy of an English assembly than anything connected with a nation distinguished for its gallantry and devotion as well as its misfortunes; and if any Member more than another was qualified to bring this question forward in such a way as to secure the goodwill and attention of the House, it was his hon. and learned friend, who, with those generous feelings which peculiarly characterized him, combined talents adequate to do justice to any subject, however difficult, and who brought to its discussion that good temper, discretion, and judgment, which never failed him. In most of the arguments—he might say almost all, of his hon. and learned friend, he was prepared to say, that he was willing to concur. It was true, as stated by his hon. and learned friend, that the kingdom of Poland was not an ancient part of the Russian empire—it was not held by old right, but bore the date of the Treaty of Vienna, and the possession of it was founded on the sanction of Europe. The British Government, therefore, felt, as one of the contracting parties to that treaty, that they had a right to entertain and express an opinion on any Act which tended to a violation of or a departure from those stipulations to which they were pledged in common with the other contracting parties. The first article of that treaty stated, that the kingdom of Poland was inseparably united with Russia by its constitution; and if he were called on
 433 434 435 436 437 438 l l 439 ad libitum; 440
 Lord Sandon  feared much lest the arguments of the hon. mover's supporters might be taken as a part of his Motion, and that its passing would only add to the difficulty which now prevailed, and perhaps excite delusive hopes amongst the Poles, which might be productive of dangerous consequences. These were the reasons which would oblige him to vote against a Motion which he had formerly supported.
 Colonel Evans  supported the petition.
 471
 Mr. Lloyd  thought it a matter of the highest consequence, that the bar should be kept free from suspicion on all occasions; but he conceived the only question was whether this assembly of benchers should be amenable to public opinion or not? He had himself formerly entertained a considerable prejudice against the conduct of the hon. member for Colchester, but he was bound in justice to that Gentleman to say, that after a careful investigation into the whole of the case, he felt assured, that it would require very strong facts indeed to remove the impression on his mind that there was nothing in his case that warranted the exclusion of that Gentleman from the bar. He believed that the benchers, in this particular instance, were actuated by the best motives, but he thought that the error they had committed in this particular instance was an irresistible argument for an alteration of the system.
 Mr. Shell  supported the prayer of the petition, because he was prepared to show, from a variety of considerations, the absolute necessity of a repeal of the Legislative Union. He said, that the Gentleman who had just sat down had declared, that the repeal would lead to dismemberment. The hon. Member's country gave him some right to a sort of political second sight; but, after all, when they heard these prophecies, they should look a little to the prophets. What did they know of Ireland who indulged in these predictions? "Repeal led to dismemberment! "It was said, that Reform would lead to revolution, but as the Reformers were not seared by the announcement, the advocates of Repeal would scarcely be deterred by these fore-warnings, unless some better evidence were offered than the authority of the soothsayers. He (Mr. Sheil) would admit, that, at this moment, the feelings and opinions of the great body of the English people were adverse to Repeal; but English feeling and opinion were subject to mutation. In June, 1827, Lord John Russell said, that he almost despaired of carrying Reform, in consequence of the insensibility of the public to its value. In a few years what a change had been effected! And it was not impossible, that, when this question came to be discussed, the English nation might see, that it was their interest that Ireland should be permitted to settle her own affairs. It was quite true, that Ireland now enjoyed (whatever be the advantage) the exclusive benefit of the English market. But let Englishmen beware how they pressed that argument. It rested on the Corn-laws, on arrangements at variance with the principles of the political economists of the House. Let them abolish the Corn-laws, give cheap bread, and then to the argument in favour of the Union, drawn from the English market, there would be an end. Sir H. Parnell had stated, in his work on finance, that England paid 12,000,000 l 476 non causa pro causa 477 478
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, he entirely approved of the opening of the China trade, as well as the separation which was about to take place with respect to the East-India Company, of the characters of sovereigns and merchants. He was also of opinion, that the Law Commission would be productive of much good. He anticipated, that the result of the labours of the Commission would be the removal of all those anomalies which at present existed in the law of India. This improvement in the state of the law would have the effect of encouraging the settlement of Europeans, which circumstance would prove the greatest blessing to that country. The House would not be surprised that, entertaining this opinion, he should regret that part of the Bill which had for its object to place a limitation to the holding of land by Europeans. The European settlers ought to be encouraged by all possible means, and the agriculture of the country would be best provided for by the labour of Europeans. The culture of
 503
 Mr. O'Connell,  after eulogizing in very warm terms the speech of the hon. and learned member for Leeds, as one combining with the most statesmanlike views, the most enlarged and enlightened principles of legislation with regard to our Indian possessions, proceeded to say that, while he approved generally of the measure brought forward by Government, he must enter his protest against some of the details of it. He potested against the giving a further twenty years' lease of India to the East-India Company. He also thought that the pecuniary bargain which the Company had got was an extremely hard one for this country. Why, he would ask, should so distant a period as 1834 be fixed as the one when the people of this country would be entirely disembarrassed from the control and monopoly of that Company? The monopoly which they possessed in salt and opium ought immediately to cease with the passing of this Bill. He trusted, that several of the objectionable details of the measure would be remedied in Committee. It was to be regretted that there was nothing in the Bill to correct the abuses incidental to the existing system of titles to landed property in India; on the contrary, the present measure went to continue those exactions which had been hitherto levied on the occupiers of land in India, and which so materially interfered with the enterprise of the inhabitants, and with the improved cultivation of the soil in that country. They might depend upon it that they never would effect substantial good for India until they erected the occupiers of the soil into real proprietors, instead of being as they now were mere tenants-at-will.
 Mr. Todd  was understood to disapprove of the clause for the abolition of slavery in India, it being unaccompanied with that which the inhabitants of India had a right to claim—namely, an equalization of the duties upon their native produces. He must also object to the proposed mode of dealing with Hayleybury College and he thought that the best thing would be to get rid of the college altogether.
 Mr. Wynn,  after praising highly the speech of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Macaulay) expressed his concurrence in almost every principle laid down by the hon. and learned Member, although he differed somewhat, as to their application to the Bill before the House. In nothing, however, more unreservedly did he agree with the hon. Member, than in the sentiments which he so forcibly impressed on the House at the close of his speech, He had
 537 538 * * 539 540 Charles Grant: 541 542 543 l 544 545
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  hoped, that the President of the Board of Control would give that preeminence to the Presbyterian
 546
 Mr. Charles Grant,  in replying, said, he would advert very briefly to some of the suggestions which had been offered in the course of this debate. Before doing so, he must first embrace the opportunity of expressing not what he Celt, for language could not express it, but of making an attempt to convey to the House his sympathy with it in its admiration of the speech of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Leeds—a speech which, he would venture to assert, had never been exceeded within those walls, for the development of statesmanlike policy and practical good sense. It exhibited all that was noble in oratory, all that was sublime, he had almost said, in poetry—all that was truly great, exalted, and virtuous in human nature. If the House at large felt a deep interest in this magnificent display, it might judge of what were his emotions when he perceived, in the hands of his hon. friend the great principles he had propounded to the House, glowing with fresh colours, and arrayed in all the beauty of truth. He must also express
 548 l l l l 549
 Mr. Harvey  trusted that the subject would go before the Committee unincumbered by any consideration of a personal character, and would be viewed as a public question.
 Mr. Littleton  said, as to the observations of the hon. Gentleman with regard to the Repeal of the Union, he had but a very few words to utter in reply. That was a
 473
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  presented a Petition from New Ross, for the Repeal of the Union (Ireland). He observed, that it was in vain to expect any peace for Ireland till the ways to
 472 s d l
 Mr. Sinclair  regretted that the hon. Member had, in the course of his speech, cast reflections upon the conduct of the Scotch and English Members of the House, in reference to Ireland. How could it be supposed, that they could entertain any other than friendly sentiments towards that country? Such remarks had a most pernicious tendency, as they were calculated to foment feelings of acrimony on the part of the Irish towards their fellow-subjects. If he were writing a Dictionary of Synonymes, he should place dismemberment of the empire as an equivalent to the Repeal of the Union. The Coercion Bill had not been intended to overthrow, but to protect the liberties of the industrious and peaceable inhabitants of Ireland—to check the nocturnal outrages of incendiaries, and restore the empire of the law. Were English and Scotch Members the only supporters of that measure? Was its necessity not contended for by a large proportion of most respectable Irish representatives? When he or any other Member, not connected with Ireland, took any part on any Irish question, he was immediately told, that he knew nothing about that country; but, on the other hand, lot him take what view he might of any subject interesting to the sister kingdom, he was sure to be borne out by competent Irish authority—for there was no single point in which gentlemen, who had resided equally long in that country, and possessed an equal share of patriotism, fortune, talent, and experience, did not express opinions the most contradictory and irreconcilable. The hon. Gentleman, like many others, had constantly reiterated the fact, that the Irish population amounted to eight millions. He hoped, that this assertion was not resorted to by way of menace or intimidation—if so, it reminded him of a borough monger, who wanted to extort certain concessions from a Prime Minister—and whose reply to every argument or objection was, "we are eight." It was thus that the House was continually met, when any arguments were adduced against the Repeal of the Union, by the averment, that the Irish population amounted to eight millions. He trusted, that a large "proportion of that number were attached to the permanence of the Union—a senti-
 475
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that however desirous he might be of facilitating the progress of public business, and anxious to remove every obstacle in the way of its despatch, still there was a limit to that desire, when injustice was likely to be the result of haste; and as this limit would, he conceived, be passed, if the second reading of the Bill now before them should be at once agreed to, he felt it his duty to enter his solemn protest against its principle rather than its details—and on that ground he intreated the attention of the House while be stated to them the reasons which induced him to oppose the Bill in its present stage. The idea of consigning over to a Joint-Stock Association, composed of such heterogenous materials as the East-India Company, the political administration of an empire peopled with a hundred millions of souls, was so preposterous, that if it were now for the first time to be proposed, it would be deemed not merely an absurdity, but an insult, to the meanest understanding in the realm. This, indeed, seemed to be indirectly admitted, by the apology for this anomaly which was always coupled with its annunciation. While the East-India Company were mere traders, it did not seem altogether unreasonable that they should have the direction of the small factories in which their commercial transactions were conducted. But from the moment they passed from the character of mere traders to be merchants and sovereigns at the same time, their position was one that was rather excused than defended, in the confident belief that when their commercial body should cease, their sovereignty would be at an end; and that though they might be allowed a Charter to trade, no one would ever dream of their asking for a Charter to govern—as that was the business, not of private individuals, but of the Government and the State. Now, the Bill upon the Table of the House took away from them entirely the mercantile character of the Company, prohibiting them even from having any further concerns whatever of trade;—commanding them to sell all their mercantile property, dismiss their mercantile servants, dispose of their ships, warehouses, and stores; and, in the same breath, it erected the members of this Joint-Stock Associa-
 480 481
 Mr. Philpotts  had been requested to support the prayer of the petitioners, but, he must say, that the powers possessed by the Inns of Court were always considered necessary to prevent the admission of improper persons to the bar. He had investigated the case of the hon. member for Colchester, and he was enabled to say, that a very material circumstance connected with the case of that hon. Gentleman had been kept back from the knowledge of the persons who were inimical to his admission. He thought, therefore, in justice to that individual, a fair opportunity ought to be afforded him of adducing evidence to rebut the charges which had been brought against him, out of respect to his own character as a member of that House, as well as out of respect to the character of the House itself.
 Mr. Hume  said, he rose to offer a few observations upon the original question.
 499 500 501 l l 502
 Mr. Sheil  considered it a great anomaly that a gentleman who had been a Member of the Legislature of his country for a period of fourteen years, and, indeed, a Member distinguished for his great abilities should be deemed by any set of persons unworthy of holding a place at the bar. It appeared to him a monstrous anomaly.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson,  in assenting to the second reading, desired to say, that he considered himself, with respect to the details of the Bill, perfectly unfettered. There could, he thought, be no objection to the erection of a fourth presidency; but with regard to the additional powers to be given to the Governor General,
 550
 Mr. Robert Wallace  begged to express his unqualified approbation of the measure which had been brought forward by his Majesty's Government. The general satisfaction
 547
 Mr. Macaulay : Having, while this measure was in preparation, enjoyed the fullest and kindest confidence of my right hon. friend, agreeing with him completely in all those views which on a former occasion he so luminously and eloquently developed, having shared his anxieties, and feeling that, in some degree, I share his responsi-
 504 505 506 crassa negligenlia 507 roi faineant 508 509 510 prochain ami 511 512 513 514 515 a priori 516 517 518 519 520 521 522 523 a priori 524 525 526 527 528 529 l 530 531 532 533 534 535 536
 Mr. Spring Rice said, he would not now enter into the discussion of a Repeal of the Union; the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Fergus O'Connor) stood for Tuesday, when he should be fully prepared to accept the challenge he had given him. He expressed a hope, that as the hon. Member stood pledged to his constituents, to the House, and his own consistency, he would not retract the pledges he had given, but would bring it as manfully before the House as he had now challenged him to do.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he also felt it his duty, as the representative of a great commercial constituency, to express the great satisfaction which the general tenor of this measure had afforded him. Me agreed, however, with the hon. Gentleman opposite, that if they abolished slavery in India, they should give to the people of India an equalization of duties with those imposed upon the rest of their fellow-subjects, and that they should receive from them the natural products of their soil (sugar and coffee) upon the same terms that such productions were imported from other quarters of the globe. He concurred with the hon. member for Dublin in thinking that the bargain which had been driven by the East-India Company with the Government had been too hard a one for the public. He regretted that the monopoly of salt was not to be abolished. Within the last three years his constituents had exported 340,000 tons of that commodity, which proved how injurious the monopoly of such an article by the East-India Company must be to the people of India in enhancing its price, and how necessary it was to give them the benefit of a free trade in it.
 Mr. Finn,  in supporting the petition, said, that Ireland could never expect any justice from a Legislature in which English and Scotch feelings of self-interest absorbed every other consideration. The Reformed House of Commons had given Ireland a pretty sample of their good feeling and sympathy in the Irish Coercion Bill. Yet this was but of a piece with the rest; for Ireland had been thus trampled upon by her English "protectors" for the last 600 years. It was time this monstrous tyranny should end. There was great talk about Poland and her wrongs; if England talked to Nicholas of Russia about Poland, he would point to Ireland, and tell England to hold her tongue for shame. In Ireland there had been no pretence for the worse than Russian outrage which had been lately perpetrated on her; there was not evidence enough to convict a miserable wretch of petty larceny, yet was the sentence of the Coercion Bill passed. This could not last; it was time that Ireland should effectually assert her happiness, and, above all, her independence. Out of 8,000,000 (the whole population), 6,000,000 were Repealers; and, next Session, that 6,000,000 would send in their signatures to the House to tell them so. The Irish would no longer submit to their miseries, which they found, instead of diminishing, were increasing. They would no longer feed the English, and starve themselves; they would no longer be persuaded that they were getting fat upon the beef and bread consumed by the English. The Irish were said to be indifferent as to how things were going on; but did it speak nothing for the opinions held in Ireland, that he, an humble individual, with but a bare competence, was sent into that House, ousting a man of enormous property in the county? In short, the people of Ireland would no longer starve, and have their trade destroyed, merely to please the English; and, therefore, all
 474
 Sir Francis Burdett  admitted, that the Government had committed a great error as regarded the Tithe Bill; but he denied that any Catholic Association had accomplished Catholic emancipation. It resulted from an improved sense of liberality on the part of the Protestant mind in England as well as in Ireland. As to the Repeal of the Union, he wished to know whether the grievances of Ireland had grown up since the Union only. He regretted irritation on the subject, because irritation was not necessary to a good cause. He denied that there existed any want of sympathy on the part of the Members of that House or the country in the cause of Ireland. Instead of such general allegations which could be productive of no benefit to Ireland, if hon. Members would only bring each subject separately before the House, be was persuaded the greatest possible attention would be paid to the arguments in their favour, For his part he was not against arguing the question: as it was agitated, he wished to hear what could be said in its favour.
 Sir Francis Vincent  presented a Petition from the attornies of Westminster, complaining of the regulations whereby students were entered, and subsequently called to the bar, and praying a Committee of Inquiry into the conduct of the benchers relative to the mode in which students were admitted to the bar. The hon. Member had given a notice of Motion on this subject, but the House having been counted out on the day for which it stood, he felt it his reluctant duty to postpone the question till the next Session of Parliament. The grievance pressed peculiarly hard upon the petitioners. The privileges exercised by the benchers of the different Inns of Court had only this to recommend them, that they had been possessed for a great length of time, and had been suffered to exist
 470 mandamus
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would, for various reasons—some of which he would state—support the Amendment of the hon. Member who had just sat down. The opposition to this Bill was obviously not founded upon any party feeling; for Irish Members who differed upon other matters, had agreed in opposing this Bill. His first objection to this Bill was, that it left the compulsory assessment on the counties of Ireland. In this way the Grand Juries of Ireland discharged the highest and most important function of Parliament, without any parliamentary responsibility. These Grand Juries, which were wholly irresponsible, had the power of putting their hands into the pockets of the people, and over the money thus taken from them they had no sort of control. The consequence of thus putting the Grand Juries in the condition of the oppressors of the people, was, that great dissatisfaction was felt against the gentry of whom they were composed. The moral effect of this was very bad, and the unconstitutional principle it involved was equally objectionable. He (Mr. O'Connell) proposed that the further consideration of this measure should be postponed in order to get rid of this power of the Grand Juries  in toto. 565 566
 Mr. Thomas Wallace  could not see why the measure should be pressed forward at the present advanced period of the Session. The postponement of the question for one year could add little to the existing evil. He admitted, that the whole system wanted remodelling, but the question was, whether such remodelling should take place in haste, and against the consent of those hon. Members of that House who were most deeply interested in the subject, and who were better acquainted with the effects of the present system, and the change in it proposed by the Bill now before the House, than English Members could be by any possibility. Great difficulties would arise from a hasty arrangement of this most important subject, all of which would be avoided by a postponement until next Session, the propriety of which he would earnestly urge upon his Majesty's Government.
 Colonel Evans  thought it, right on the part of his Majesty's Ministers to resist the taunts which had been thrown out against certain parts of their public conduct, but at the same time he could not help expressing his surprise at the confidence which the noble Viscount (Viscount Palmerston) seemed to place in the good faith of Russia. If they were to judge by its former acts, he would say, that there existed no grounds for such confidence, and that it was utterly unfounded; nay more, was altogether disproved by her conduct, not only towards Poland, but towards Turkey. With regard to Poland, she had been guilty of twenty years of infidelity and breach of faith; and with respect to Turkey, her conduct had been marked by want of faith and honesty. He was not anxious to see this country plunged into war, but he felt that if we, with France, had interfered immediately after the battle of the Pruth, we should have been right: but we allowed this opportunity to escape, and three months after the Russians had entered the Turkish territory as protectors, they declared that they had claims of their own, independent of the
 583
 An Hon. Member  moved, that the House be counted. Forty-one Members being present,
 Mr. Ruthven  disclaimed the idea that the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down was to be taken as the sentiments of the people of Ireland, or their Representatives, the Irish Members. He hoped the noble Lord opposite would afford Ireland the benefit of a full consideration of the Bill this Session, despite
 562
 Lord Duncannon  said, he thought it would be highly improper in him to withdraw the Bill, after it had been so long before the House. It was before the House last Session, and was then printed and sent to Ireland, and soon after the commencement of this Session it was again introduced by his right hon. friend present, the Colonial Secretary. It had also been two months before the Committee, and had had as much discussion as any Bill that was ever introduced. He would detail a few of the alterations which the Bill would effect; it would associate those who paid the taxes with the Judges of the petty Sessions, and thereby give them an interest in all works to be performed; it would, by the appointment of surveyors in each county in Ireland, give to those who paid the rates an assurance, that the money raised was not more than requisite; by compelling all public works to be done by contract and open tender, it would assure the taxpayer that such works were performed at the lowest expense. One of the great complaints against the present system was, that all the business of the country was done by the Grand Jury, with closed doors; but the present Bill would compel the Grand Jury to act in open Court, and in the presence of the public. He thought the Bill would effect a very great improvement on the present system. He did not say, that some of the clauses might not be capable of yet further improvement, and if so, such alterations as might be necessary could be made in the Committee.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, there was one ground on which he should press the postponement of the measure. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland in the course of his observations said, that he could only look upon the measure with an English eye—it was in fact the only one with which the
 570
 An Hon. Member,  for a second time, moved, that the House be counted; but there being forty Members present,
 Mr. Baldwin replied,  and withdrew his Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the House would do an act of injustice if it did not call for the minutes. He denied the dangerous doctrine laid down by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grant), that calling for the minutes of a Court-martial was a reflection upon the members. The evidence of Lieutenant Sweeney and the letter, contradicting each other, had both been received by the Court-martial, which, he contended, was not correct. Lieutenant Sweeney was admitted to have prevaricated, and of what value was the testimony of a prevaricator? He was the sole witness in the case. Being convicted on the evidence of a prevaricator, Captain Robison had a claim upon the House, and was entitled to call for the minutes of the Court-martial.
 Colonel Evans  observed, that there was great difference of opinion in the House on this subject. It was quite as essential to the honour and character of General Darling and the Court, in his opinion, as to Captain Robison's, that the minutes should be produced. If ever the production of such records was necessary, it was necessary in this case.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that he had hoped that the unanimous wishes of the Irish Members which had been so unequivocally expressed, would have induced his Majesty's Government to have delayed the further progress of the measure for the present Session. The Bill was really so crude, that if persisted in the country would have all the inconvenience of a change, without any of the benefits of an improvement. He believed, that all the Irish Members who were in the Committee were most anxious that the measure should not be persevered in; and he therefore hoped, that his Majesty's Government would show some deference to the opinion of those gentlemen, whose local knowledge certainly entitled their opinion to respect and consideration. He also trusted, that his Majesty's Ministers would give the Irish Members credit for not wishing to impede their views, and for being anxious to lend their assistance to the introduction of a better measure in the course of next Session. These continual changes in the Grand Jury laws of Ireland operated most prejudicially, and though he (Colonel Conolly) did not object to a change in the present law, any alteration now made should be permanent. The present measure was partial in its operations, impracticable in its details, and left the root of the evil untouched. He hoped that though he differed on many subjects with his Majesty's Ministers, they would notwithstanding give him credit for being solely actuated in his opposition to the Bill then under consideration, by a wish to forward a better digested measure than that before the House. He thanked the noble Lord (Lord Duncannon) for the exertions he had used to accomplish a good purpose, but he would ask him, whether he thought that such a chaos as the present Bill had not greater claims to novelty than utility; and whether, supposing such a measure to be passed, he considered it likely to give satisfaction to the people of Ireland?
 Mr. Baldwin  proceeded to read the paper. It related principally to the number of artizans and manufacturers in Dublin
 586 587
 Mr. Baldwin said,  it was his wish not to press his Motion at present, but to record his own sentiments on the subject.
 Mr. Baldwin  rose to submit the Motion of which he had
 584 l l l
 Mr. Baldwin  proceeded. Wealth, he argued, was of no value, except as it was used. Money was made for man, not man for money. The proper distribution of wealth was the great benefit which it conferred on nations. The wealth taken out of Ireland by absentees might, had they continued to reside, have been used for the benefit of the Irish people. If a country exported all its raw material, and imported all its manufactures, the people of that country must necessarily be idle and discontented, and exposed to all the evils flowing from idleness and discontent. Such was, in a great measure, the state of Ireland. The landlord who drew all his rent away from that country, inflicted the injury upon it of withdrawing the most powerful stimulus to exertion. At present Ireland exported all her raw material to England and other countries—thereby throwing away the advantages which she might otherwise enjoy. By these means the incitement to labour was taken away, which might render the Irish an industrious and a happy people. It
 585
 Lord Oxmantown  should oppose proceeding further with the measure, because he considered it in its details to be impracticable. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had not answered one of the objections to the Bill which had been urged by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. That hon. and learned Gentleman showed distinctly, that the Bill could not work; but to that portion of his speech the right hon. Secretary had not given any reply. The measure came before the House under circumstances of the most extraordinary nature. It was introduced for the purpose of amending the Irish Grand Jury Laws. It was referred to a Committee up stairs, who, after a laborious investigation, agreed unanimously to recommend its withdrawal. But the noble Lord (Lord Duncannon) said, let us now go into Committee and make such alterations in the Bill as will render it a wise and salutary measure. Now he would ask, could the House in Committee do that which was found to be impracticable by a Committee up stairs? It was impossible, even supposing the Bill to be passed, that it could come into operation before next Summer Assizes, and he there-fore trusted, that his Majesty's Ministers would consent to its withdrawal. Let them employ competent persons in the mean time, who, by inquiring into the subject, and consulting with those most conversant with the details connected with the system of Grand Jury Law in Ireland, might be prepared early in the next Session with a measure calculated to remedy the abuses which no man doubted had existence. He should hope, that Ministers, seeing, that gentlemen from Ireland of every shade of political opinion, concurred in recommending the withdrawal of the measure for the present, would concede; but if they persisted, he hoped, English Members would not insist on forcing a measure upon Ireland which the great majority of Irish Members reprobated.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he regretted the opinions which had been announced by his Majesty's Ministers. If the minutes were refused, in his (Major Beauclerk's) opinion, there would be a case of gross injustice. He did not mean to say, that the members of the Court-martial had not done their duty; but, in his opinion, it was the duty of that House to call for the minutes of their proceedings. It was no
 607
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the Motion was a very important one, and that hon. Members who brought forward questions relating to Ireland were not to be laughed at.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  did not wonder at the lecture read the Irish Members by the hon. member for Worcester, for that hon. Member had experienced the evil effects of the practice he reprobated in his own instance, when he effectually depopulated that House by a Motion regarding taxation. He thought that there ought to be a tax upon absentees; but, if they did not like that, they might effect the same object by increasing the facilities for the transfer of property. The evils of absenteeism were very great. Most of the disturbances that took place were on the estates of absentee landlords, and were occasioned by the misconduct of those who represented them. The people on other estates were at the same time quite tranquil. Such had been the case with the tenantry of Lord Cloncurry, who resided on his property, and who, in the year of the famine, had not only supported the poor among his own tenantry, but many others.
 Mr. Littleton  never had been able to comprehend how an absentee tax could effect any good for Ireland. It would prevent any Englishman from investing his surplus capital in Irish property, and it would make Irishmen invest their surplus capital in England, where they might enjoy it with freedom, and thus, instead of tending to increase the means of employment in Ireland, it would diminish them.
 Mr. Littleton  would not give a peremptory opinion on the subject, but must confess, that he thought the utmost necessity prevailed for the adoption of some new measure. Looking at the present measure with an English eye, it appeared to him to be founded on principles worthy of recognition. The principle of taking the powers from the Grand Jury which they now enjoyed, and the conducting the business in open Court, was a point of such importance, that he thought it expedient, that the House should allow the Bill to go into Committee. In his opinion, the most important part of the Bill was that which
 567
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the indifference with which Irish Members were often pleased to charge English Members upon the subject of Irish affairs, was not an indifference to the interests of Ireland, but was the result of the want of conduct and discretion on the part of the Irish Members themselves. Whenever any matter of practical advantage to Ireland was to be considered, the English Members were attentive enough; but it was impossible to expect them to be so when hon. Members from the Sister Country brought forward mere formal Resolutions for the purpose of making them the means of introducing a series of observations to the House. He trusted that that system would not be persevered in, and that these unfounded accusations would not be repeated.
 Mr. Aglionby  observed, that Captain Robison had been convicted of misconduct with respect to the letter, solely on the evidence of Lieutenant Sweeney, which testimony was of an equivocal nature.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, when the Bill was first introduced, and its principles explained by the right hon. Gentleman, now Secretary for the Colonies, the hon. and learned member for Dublin expressed his concurrence in them [ "No, no," from Mr. O'Connell 569 Mr. O'Connell "no no
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he knew neither of the parties, and only interfered from a sense of duty. He thought, that it was extremely prejudicial, that when Courts-martial had acted in a proper
 606
 Sir H. Hardinge  asked, whether the instructions which were given to the police would come under the investigation of the Select Committee.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the character of General Darling being brought forward to prevent an act of justice being done to an individual. The character of Captain Robison stood as fair as that of General Darling, and perhaps purer, in the present matter. No Court-martial in any colony had been regarded as more oppressive than the one in question.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that there was a great delusion as to the evils of absenteeism, and he hoped the opportunity would soon arrive when the question would be fairly discussed, and that delusion put an end to. Absenteeism was an evil, but the remedy now proposed was a greater evil. The real and the greatest evil in Ireland was the want of employment. That employment could not be given without capital—there was plenty of capital in England that the owners were anxious to send over to Ireland, but they were prevented by the disordered state of the country. Civil discord, anarchy, and bad Government were the causes of the evils of
 592
 Mr. Perrin  regretted, that the Select Committee on the Bill had not received the advantage it might have received from the advice and experience of the hon. member for Dublin. He did not admit, that the operation of the Bill would lead to any nomination of two or three tenants, as had been described by the hon. member for Dublin. His hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin objected to the Bill, but why did he not suggest something better? He approved of the principle, which was founded on economy and justice, and so must every man who knew anything of the system of the Grand Jury in Ireland. It separated the fiscal from the judicial duties of the Grand Jurors, and which, in his judgment, was an exceedingly great improvement. These were the principal features in the. Bill. He would assist his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, in any practical improvements of the details; but he hoped and trusted, that the Bill would not be thrown out.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the evils of absenteeism were admitted. But what was done to get rid of them? Nothing—only a wish was expressed that quiet might be restored, and then it was said there would be no more absenteeism. He almost doubted that. It was a habit of the landlords to be absentees. Scotland suffered from absenteeism, but not so much as Ireland, and there was this difference between the two countries, that in the first place, there were no confiscated Scotch estates possessed by large English proprietors; and in the next, Scotland was a tranquil country. He observed then, with regard to Ireland, that every year England gave less and less to Ireland. In the year of the cholera morbus, England sent over to Ireland 40,000 l Hume Hume l
 Mr. Sheil  objected to the principle upon which the Bill was founded. There was, notwithstanding the decision of the preliminary Session, an appeal given to the Grand Jury, whose adjudication would under the provisions of this Bill, be final. The Grand Jury was appointed by the Sheriff, upon whom it was made obligatory to select three at least from each barony; and this anomaly would arise, that in the county of Louth there would be only five Grand Jurors so selected, while in the neighbouring county of Meath there would be no less than eighteen out of the twenty-three to constitute the Grand Jury. He contended that, on the principle that those who taxed the people should be elected by the people, the Sheriffs ought to be so chosen, instead of being nominated by the Judges; and unless representation accompanied taxation in this Bill, it would be most injudicious now to proceed with it.
 Mr. Cullar Fergusson  declared, that he reposed no confidence in the pledges of Russia, and believed she would continue to violate them on every occasion, as she had already violated them, when it was her interest to do so. Had she not pledged herself to maintain the Constitution of Poland, pledged herself by Treaties, and had she not broken through them all? He would not trust her; for he was of opinion, that if she now retired from Turkey, it would only be for the purpose of rendering her return more easy, and her prey more sure. Such was her honesty
 582
 Mr. Robert Grant  remarked, that his hon. and learned friend in the speech which he had just made had culled out of the paper which Captain Robison had circulated only two or three of the charges which he had brought against the Court-martial which had tried him, and had entirely left out of consideration the many other charges which Captain Robison
 598 599 600 601 602 603 604 605
 Dr. Lushington  rose to move for the production of the minutes of the Court-martial on Captain Robison. He said, that he had on a former occasion presented a petition on the subject, and he had no hesitation in saying, that the principles upon which Courts-martial were constituted had been violated in this case. His object was to obtain justice for an injured individual by means of that House, which was now the only tribunal which could administer justice to him. He would shortly state the facts upon which he required the House to accede to his Motion. In the year 1828 Captain Robison, who had been appointed to the command of three veteran companies, which had been raised in this country for the purpose of being sent out to New South Wales, to serve there as mounted police, was brought to a Court-martial at the instance of General Darling, the Governor of that colony. General Darling, who was at that time exercising all the powers of the Crown, acted as prosecutor of Captain Robison. General Darling had the selection of the Court-martial which was to try Captain Robison, and he mentioned this to induce the House to consider the odds which this officer had to combat in contending with the tremendous powers with which the governors of our colonies were armed. Knowing those powers, the House would see that if it shut its ears against complaints of the misuse
 593 594 595 596 597
 Mr. Fitzgerald  wished, that the Bill should go into Committee, when, if no one else did, he would move as an Amendment, that none but baronial Magistrates should make a cess, and that the people should not be overpowered by the influx of Magistrates from other districts, as was now frequently the case.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that there had been no such thing, and that it was only to save trouble he made the suggestion. He knew the subject ought to be inquired into, but the hon. Mover himself saw that at this period no practical result could follow from his Motion. Neither could it be supposed that indifference on the subject influenced the House; for, if so, it was equally chargeable upon some of those Irish Members who claimed most emphatically to be the Representatives of the people of that country, and who were absent upon this discussion. When the proposition should be made, he would be ready, as he was then, to negative it, particularly because a Motion professing to inquire into absenteeism was in reality one for the introduction of a federal Government; and when such a proposition as that was to be considered, it was one to be considered by the whole Legislature, and not delegated to a Committee. To a Committee on absenteeism he should have no objection, as he was not one of those political economists who did not consider it an evil, and above all, an evil in a country circumstanced like Ireland. This he admitted, but how was it possible to remedy it? That could not be done without destroying the right of property, as well as degrading the people of Ireland, by leaving them without the power of free agency and making them mere  adscripti glebœ 588 primâ facie 589 l l 590
 Mr. Spring Rice  suggested, whether it would not be better for the hon. Gentleman to give a notice for the next Session.
 Mr. Finn  said, that absenteeism was the great evil of Ireland. She made more progress than any other country—than even England between the years 1782 and 1796, when she had an independent Legislature of her own.
 Mr. Finn  was quite sure, that the Bill had been drawn up with an intention to do good; but he would implore the Government to give time to the Irish Members to consult their constituents, so that they might come to a proper and satisfactory conclusion.
 Sir Edmund Hayes  said, the argument of the noble Lord, that the Bill, having now been so long before the public ought to be persevered in, appeared to be of very
 563 564
 Sir Edward Kerrison  said, that, notwithstanding the opinions of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, British officers were equal to the proper discharge of their duties on Courts-martial. Those officers acted upon their oaths, and he would venture to assert, that no nine officers in the British army would be found capable of being intimidated from a proper discharge of their duty. He had himself been a long time in the service, and he had never known any instance of the kind. He would say, too, that he had long known General Darling, and had always known him as an honourable and upright man. The hon. member for Dublin might enter as he pleased into the more minute points of the law; with these he did not pretend to be acquainted; but he would say, that the officers of the British army carried about them as much common sense and understanding as any lawyer.
 Sir Francis Vincent  considered, that the question was not so much what was the conduct of Captain Robison, as whether there were  prima facie
 Sir Harry Verney  was bound, though he did it with reluctance, to condemn the conduct of Captain Robison. General Darling was an honourable and high
 608
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer,  on being called on by the Speaker, said, that before he proceeded with the Motion of which he had given notice, he wished to ask whether any Government existed? *
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  said, it did not follow because they were there, that they constituted a Government; but, as he presumed, from the noble Lord's answer, that he must consider them as yet in power, he would proceed with the Motion which he rose to bring forward. He begged in the first instance, to assure the noble Lord, that he made his Motion without any hostility to the Government, since he had never heard one word from the noble Lord in the House which did not do honour to his situation, and because from every opportunity he had had of knowing what the noble Lord had done out of the House, he believed, the conduct of the noble Lord to have been all that could be desired. But whatever confidence he had in Government, he thought that when such great events took place as those which threatened a complete change of the political relations of Europe, it could not, be supposed that this country viewed them with indifference, nor that the House was not anxious to be acquainted with the policy of the
 * 571 coup de main. 572 573 574 575 576 577 578
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer,  in reply, said, that after what had fallen from the noble Viscount, he would not press his Motion. He was satisfied with the expression of opinion which had taken place, and would, with the leave of the House, withdraw the Motion.
 Sir J. Scarlett  considered, that the course which had been pursued by the Court-martial, in respect to the evidence of Lieutenant Sweeney and the letter, had been correct. In his opinion, there was no just ground for calling for the minutes of the Court-martial. The petitioner had been misled, and his statements, brought forward at the end of five years, had been completely refuted. The proceedings of the Court had, in fact, been revised by two Judge Advocates General; and, if the House were ready to listen to such complaints, men of honour would not be very willing to sit on Courts.
 Sir Rufane Donkin  denied the possibility of a Court-martial being tampered with: he appealed with confidence to every military man in the House, to confirm that statement. After detailing the services of General Darling, the hon. Member pronounced a eulogium on the character of that officer, which he declared to be wholly above suspicion.
 Lord Althorp  rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the conduct of the Police on the occasion of the meeting in Coldbath-fields. He observed, that the verdict of the Jury on the Coroner's Inquest, and the decision of the Jury on the subsequent trial at the Old Bailey, rendered this course desirable. The meeting in question was clearly assembled
 610
 Lord Althorp  said, that the instructions under which the police acted must certainly be brought before the Committee.
 Lord Althorp  who had just entered the House and taken his seat, replied, "Here we are."
 Lord Althorp  was ready to admit that absenteeism was an evil. But the remedy now proposed would be a greater evil. Absenteeism was an evil in England, Scotland, and Ireland. Those who said that to remedy the evils of Ireland, it was necessary to increase the value of property there, spoke truly, but those who proposed restrictions on property were proposing
 591
 Lord Ebrington  said, that those who now opposed this Bill had been amongst the loudest and foremost to call for amendment of the Grand Jury Laws of Ireland, and he maintained, that if this Bill did not effect all that some might desire, it did embrace some considerable and important improvements. It did, amongst other valuable improvements, recognize the principle, that in such matters taxation should follow representation, though the principle might not be carried out to the extent required by the hon. and learned Members opposite. There might be objections to the Bill, but he had not expected to hear it objected or intimated, that the Bill was a hasty measure. After all that had passed, and after the condemnation
 568
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was hardly necessary for him to state that he should consider it his duty to oppose the Motion, because the transactions to which the papers called for referred, were incomplete, and the character of the whole transaction would depend upon its termination. The papers asked for, related to the late interference of Russia with Turkey, and the part this country took with reference to that proceeding; and, as the results were not yet known, the House would at once perceive that the Motion of the hon. Member must be premature. The hon. Member had taken advantage of the Motion before the House, to express his opinion as to the general policy of his Majesty's Government with regard to Russia, and from the tendency of the hon. Gentleman's speech, he seemed to attach greater importance to the opportunity afforded him of declaring his sentiments on this subject, than to the production of the papers he moved for. There was always some inconvenience attending the entering into a detailed discussion on the conduct of the Government on foreign affairs, when the transactions to which it had reference were not, complete. The Ministers were, no doubt, responsible for their acts, but it was too much to expect that, while transactions were pending, Ministers should undertake to explain not only their own conduct, but the motives which influenced the conduct of others. It was probable that at the very time at which they were speaking the Russian troops had evacuated Turkey. The pledge to do so had been repeatedly and solemnly given, not only to this country, but to all the other Powers of Europe, and, it was certainly, premature to declare that Russia did not mean to keep her faith? The hon. Gentleman had urged it as an accusation against. Ministers that they had not interfered to defend the Sultan against Mehemet Ali, and prevent the advance of his army. He was not prepared to deny, that the
 579 580 581
 Mr. Whitmore  entirely concurred in what had been said by the hon. member for Sheffield, and he could not hesitate to vote for the Amendment. It was most desirable that the Board of Control should have the power of taking the administration of India at the end often years out of the hands of the Directors, if they should have mismanaged the trust. He could not think that the effect of that Charter could be to encourage the Directors in a profuse expenditure, for assuredly, if they should be lavish, the Board of Control would not continue them in the government of India. He did not see how the limitation was to be considered arbitrary. It was to be remembered that we were now making an experiment. We were giving the government of India to a body which was confessedly anomalous for the purposes of Government. It would be most unwise to tie up our hands for too long a period.
 Mr. Marjoribanks  did not wish to see India made the scene of an experimental Government. The great promoter of prosperity was stability, which the Amendment would entirely do away with.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  would support the Clause as it stood. When the House passed even a Turnpike Bill, in order to give a feeling of certainty, it fixed the term of twenty-one years, and surely, in a question of such magnitude, they would not depart from such a wise rule.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the Bill was now an anomaly. There was a trading Company which had lost its power to trade. It was obvious that the difficulties of the subject arose from the apprehended results of taking the Government of India from the Company, and transferring it to
 626
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the only object of the House in legislating on this subject should be, the welfare and happiness of our Hindoo subjects. This principle had been recognised by the Court of Proprietors as the only ground of their acceptance of what they appeared to treat as a burthen imposed on them. No valuable consideration was given. Under these circumstances, therefore, it was highly desirable that the House should have an opportunity, at the end of ten years—if they found the plan did not effect its object—of terminating the present arrangement on two years' notice.
 Colonel Evans wished to ask the Solicitor-General whether his attention had been called to a circumstance of great Importance which had occurred at the Old Bailey. An apprehension was entertained, in consequence of certain proceedings on the part of the Middlesex Magistrates, that all the Middlesex trials which had taken place there were irregular, and that the prisoners who had been convicted of very serious crimes, might again be let loose upon society. He wished to know whether his Majesty's Government knew anything of the circumstances.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that being himself a Middlesex Magistrate, in the absence of the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough (Mr. Rotch), who was Chairman of the Middlesex Sessions, he would inform the House what those Magistrates had done when they met at the Sessions House yesterday, on Clerkenwell-green; and he would state what the course was, which they had, perhaps imprudently, adopted. It was alleged, that the Court had adjourned from Monday to Thursday, and that, in consequence, all that had been done in the interval had been illegal. They, however, found, on inquiry, that the adjournment had been from Monday to Tuesday, from Tuesday to Wednesday, and from Wednesday to Thursday, as usual. The question yesterday discussed was, whether the course which had been pursued was a regular one; and they called before them the Crier of the Court, who had been in the service of the Court for sixty years, and he said it had been the uniform practice to do as had been done in this instance, during all that period. The Crier stated, it was true, that on that and other occasions he had been alone when witnesses were sworn to go before the Grand Jury. The difficulty which the Magistrates felt was, that there was no Statute law to guide them; therefore they imagined that the ancient custom must prevail. He could only say, for himself,
 635
 Mr. Chapman,  as a Magistrate for Middlesex, maintained, that the usual practice of the Court had been followed on the late occasion.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that repeated instances were found on the minutes of one Magistrate only being present whilst the Grand Jury was sitting.
 Mr. O'Connell : No Magistrate was present on Tuesday. As far as he could learn, the Crier was the only Magistrate.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes : Several Magistrates were in and out of the building in the course of the day, but they had no business to detain them.
 Mr. O'Connell : Precisely; and so the whole dignity of the Court was left to be represented by the Crier. The Court, however, had business, witnesses were to be sworn, and bills to be brought up. If there was a Chairman, why at least did he
 636
 Mr. Wynn  entirely concurred with the hon. member for Dublin in the opinion that the Magistrates, in this instance, ought to respect the higher authority of the Judges. The House, however, ought now to consider what was to be done. No remedy appeared to lie in any existing Court, and he consequently thought, that an Act should be passed to authorize the appointment of a special commission to retry the prisoners in question.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that the reason
 631
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, he had been misunderstood. What he meant by compromise was, that, as Government might fee suspected of taking too much or giving too much, the measure had been founded on conciliatory terms.
 Mr. Charles Grant lamented, as sincerely as the hon. Member, the effect that must inevitably be produced upon a considerable portion of the community, in the vicinity of the Company's trading establishments. If it were possible to obviate this difficulty, he should be most happy to do so; the subject had been, and still was, under the serious consideration of his Majesty's Government. Aware, however, that no precaution could entirely avert the pressure that must, for a certain period, weigh upon particular classes in consequence of the transition of the trade from the Company to the general merchant, he hoped, that it would not be so ruinous as the hon. Gentleman expected. The hon. Gentleman wished the Company gradually to withdraw from trade. When the opportunity for discussing that question arrived, he should have no difficulty in proving that there was no option, and that the trade must be discontinued at once. If it were not a matter of necessity, one of the greatest benefits of the measure to the country at large would be, the complete cessation of the Company's trade at the expiration of their Charter. That cessation was of the greatest importance to the commerce of the country; and he should not have done his duty if he had not used every effort to induce the Company to abandon its trade. Me hoped, notwithstanding the anticipation of some hon. Gentlemen, that it would be found that the advantages of throwing open the trade would compensate those who might suffer for a time during the transition.
 Mr. Charles Grant  observed, that the course which had been recommended by the hon. member for Middlesex, was one that could not be so easily settled as he seemed to imagine. The hon. Member desired that the majority of the Commissioners of the Board of Control should be permanently members of that Board. There would be this inconvenience attending such an arrangement, that as the Chief Commissioner must be changed with every Ministry, he might, on coming into office, find himself surrounded by men whose opinions differed from his own. He thought besides, that even if that objection did not exist, too much importance was attached to the matter, for all the routine business of the Board, everything that depended on official experience alone, might be safely intrusted to the subordinate officers of the Board, who were very well capable of discharging their duties. The officers of the Board of Control deserved this compliment from him, and he was happy to have this opportunity of paying it.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, there was no expression in the Bill which could fetter the power of Parliament to interfere, excepting as to the point which the hon. Gentleman had just alluded to. It was agreed on all hands that some term ought to be given; the question, therefore, was, what term ought to be allowed? He thought ten years too limited a term, because he agreed with the hon. Member, that much good ought to be expected, and he trusted and believed that much benefit would result from this measure; but he also believed, that the effective way to ensure the most beneficial results would be the security and stability given by the present plan to the Court of Directors. Where men had nothing to look to beyond a certain short period, they naturally became careless; but the consciousness of power and stability gave the Company a direct interest to govern India wisely. Another reason he would urge in favour of the Bill as it now stood was, the result it must have on the revenue of India. The India Company were now so intimately connected with the revenues of the country, by means of this Bill—they took upon themselves such an onus in taking upon them the management of the income, that it was obviously their own particular interest to do everything for the best in their future administration of the affairs of India. If they had, on the contrary, only a temporary terra of the government of the country—say ten years, for instance—they would naturally enough feel no such inducement to a development of its resources as was now absolutely incumbent on them, for their own sakes, to feel and force onward. These were his principal reasons for supporting the present measure, and designing to give this longer time to the Company. A difference of opinion might exist as to the particular term of years—whether it should be fifteen or twenty—but he certainly was of opinion
 620
 Mr. Charles Grant  could not consent to sanction any such proposal, after the arrangement entered into between his Majesty's Government and the East-India Company, on which this present system was based. They had begun with conciliation and concession—the system was founded on a compromise with the Company—therefore, it should be persevered in as it had been begun. The real question before the House in the hon. member for Middlesex's Motion was, whether by sacrificing a little time they were not gaining the cordial co-operation of the East-India Company? And whether, for the sake of the country and the people of India, such a sacrifice was not to be considered necessary and advisable?
 Mr. Charles Grant observed, that entertaining any of these three Motions would be entering on the general principle of the revenue of India. He would, however, ill answer to the observations of the hon. Members, say, that the subject of the opium and salt monopolies in India were under the serious consideration of the Government. Any discussion which should be originated on the present occasion was but delaying the progress of the Bill. If any hon. Gentlemen wished to enter into a discussion on the revenue of India, let them appoint a day for that purpose, and he should be most happy to meet them and give them every information on the subject; of if the hon. Member were disposed, he could move his Amendment when the Committee arrived at the fourth clause of the Bill. He thought, however, it would be inconvenient to occupy the time of the House now with the subject.
 Mr. Charles Grant suggested, that it would be better to defer the discussion of the point referred to by the hon. Gentleman until the clause upon which his recommendation might be moved came under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Charles Grant  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the East-India Company's Charter Renewal Bill.
 Mr. Charles Marjoribanks  begged leave to call the attention of the Committee to the effect which the Resolution that deferred the opening of the China trade to British shipping till the 22nd of April, 1834, would have on British commerce. The effect of this would be, the throwing the whole China trade, for some five months, into the hands of foreigners, for the Company's vessels cleared out from China in the month of January. The Report on
 628
 Mr. Charles Marjoribanks  took the opportunity of stating, that there was no branch of the Company's service more entitled to the Company's gratitude than its navy. It was the finest commercial navy ever known in the world. For the last thirty years there had not been an instance of a 1200 ton ship, on her return voyage, being lost.
 Mr. Charles Marjoribanks  doubled whether the Company's ships, upon the long run, were more expensive than other ships. They had been the means of saving a great deal of expense by affording that protection to trade, for which king's ships would otherwise be required. The hon. member for Middlesex could not surely forget, that a fleet of East Indiamen beat Admiral Linois.
 Mr. Charles Marjoribanks objected to the clause. From the way in which it stood at present in the Bill, it might authorize the vote of a man actually dead. For instance, a man might die between the time of sending his power to vote by attorney and the tendering of that vote.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the House should know distinctly what sort of a council the Governor-General should have, and how it was to be constituted.
 Mr. Charles Wynn  was happy to be able to add his testimony to that of his right hon. friend, as to the great efficiency of the officers of the Board of Control, and certainly, so far as they were concerned, the permanency of the members of that Board was useless.
 Mr. Charles Wynn  said, he much wished to know what were the grounds of this clause, and what would be the effect of it?
 Mr. Wynn thought, that the appointment of a Vice President, not liable to removal on a change in the Administration, and bound to constant attendance to the business of the Board, would be productive of great advantage.
 Mr. Wynn  added, that the whole political Government was vested in the Board of Control; and the Court of Directors could only be considered subordinate to that, and chiefly useful as affording a check upon his Majesty's Government. He could not subscribe to the perfection of the system that had hitherto prevailed in India; for he could not forget that the natives and half castes were excluded from all employment in situations where they could be more effective than Europeans, and at a much smaller cost. The principle of employing those persons he considered to be essential to the good government of India; and he could not applaud that system which had been founded on a violation of that principle.
 Mr. C. W. Wynn said, the monopoly of salt affected the future government of India as much as any other matter in the plan proposed for the renewal of the Company's Charter by his Majesty's Government. The instructions he thought could be moved now, for the House had always exercised the right of giving mandatory instructions to a Committee.
 Mr. Wynn  did not at ail approve of the proposed arrangement. He thought it advisable, instead of limiting any particular period of ten or twenty years, that no term should be assigned, but that each party should have power to determine the agreement, on giving to the other a particular notice. The subject was one of immense importance, and involved the interests, not only of the commerce of this country, but also of millions of the inhabitants of India; and it was very material that the attention of the House should be recalled to it in a much shorter period than twenty years. Should they now vest the power of Government for a period of twenty years, if would be impossible for Parliament to terminate the arrangement before the expiration of that long term, unless there was so gross au act committed by the
 622 scire facias.
 Mr. Finch  supported the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex; he felt certain, that if the question was brought forward at the end of ten years, every thing required for the interest of the public would be taken into consideration, and the honour of Parliament would not be compromised by any unfair act being committed towards the East-India Company.
 Mr. Lyall, speaking disinterestedly (for be trusted that the House would believe that his being a Director would not influence him in his opinion as a Member of Parliament) would recommend to the Proprietors not to assign over the whole of their assets without having the government of India secured to them for a considerable term of years. He could assure the House, that not one of the Directors wished to retain his seat for a single hour, after it was found that they did not benefit both the people of India and England. One strong argument, however, in favour of the longer term would be, the very great fluctuation in the value of the stock which would be consequent upon the frequent discussion of the question, by which many might be ruined who depended upon their stock.
 Mr. Robinson  admitted it was true, that this Bill, in its present shape, gave the Directors the government of India for twenty years; but the Government would be subject to a species of control by Parliament, for Parliament would superintend the Board of Control. Parliament had the power at any time to repeal or alter any law made by the Governors-General in Council; annual reports also were to be made, which would enable the House constantly to have its eye on the proceedings of the Court of Directors; and without detaining the House further, he would merely say, that they ought not to let out of their hands the superintendence of the Board of Directors, on so important a question as the future good government of India.
 Mr. Wilbraham  did not wish to take up the time of the House; but he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grant) would assure him of an opportunity of bringing forward his Motion at some other stage of the measure.
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, he had also to move an instruction to the Committee, relating to the monopoly of salt in India, and its effect on the commerce of this country.
 Mr. George Young  said, the House was placed in an embarrassing situation by the turn the debate had taken, and the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grant), that the House should bear in mind that this was a compromise, although they had been before told, that the delegation of the government of India to the Company for twenty years, was done upon principle only, and not upon any compromise. He, for one, was wholly at a loss to conceive, as the Company had lost their trading powers, what interest they could possibly have in retaining the government of the country. As to whether the period of the Charter should be ten or twenty years, it could not be argued that the greater period would better ensure the payment of the dividends than if it were for only ten years. The payment of the dividends would be ensured in either case; besides, as the debt was not wholly redeemable until 1870, the Charter would fall far short of that period if it were to be granted for twenty years. He should support the Amendment.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, the addition to the clause would prevent it being possible to disturb the Charter in less than twelve years. Surely that term was long enough, if it should then be deemed advisable to terminate or to alter the Charter. As it would be most desirable to continue these morning sittings till they got through this Bill, he suggested the propriety of extending the meetings till six o'clock, and then retire for two hours to dinner.
 Mr. Buckingham said, that the question of a compromise with the East-India Company, was one which the Government, as a Government, might reasonably entertain; but it was a question on which Parliament had to decide for themselves—and follow the dictates of their own feelings on the subject. With respect to the continuation of the government of India in the hands of the Company, he would say, that if Parliament granted it to them for that period, they would be granting them a longer terra of existence than they possessed themselves. He should advocate the restriction of the term to even a lesser period than that of ten years, if possible. It could be renewed if the government of the Company were found beneficial to the
 621
 Mr. Hardy  said, he would support the opinions advanced by the hon. member for Middlesex upon this question, that of extending their Charter ten years, with power on the part of the Government to extend it two years further. Now it did not follow that it was necessarily to cease at either period; because, if the government of the East India Company went on well, and as it ought to do, there would be good ground for renewing the Charter. The Amendment therefore proposed no absolute restriction; but, as the present plan was an experiment, if it did not succeed, Parliament ought to have the power of stopping it. Ten years was neither too long nor too short a period of trial.
 Mr. Hume  begged to observe, that if the Company's navy had been the finest in the world, it had also been the most expensive. He did not disparage the talent of the officers, for a more efficient set of men never set foot on ship-board; but the Company's naval service was too expensive.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the government of India could never be properly administered while the members of the Board of Control continued subject to removal on every change in the Government of this country. He suggested the propriety of making the appointment of a certain number of the Commissioners permanent.
 Mr. Hume observed, that the argument of the noble Lord would justify their extending the duration of Parliament to fourteen or twenty years. The question was simply one of responsibility. If they wished to hold the Company responsible for the exercise of their sovereign power, they must limit the duration of the possession of that power to the shortest period consistent with its efficiency. Parliament ought to retain in its own hands the power of making any alteration in the government of India, and all the purposes of the measure would be answered, if the Company were to obtain the power of regulating the government of India, according to the system proposed, for ten years, subject to a notice of two years. At the same time he was anxious that it should be understood that he did not speak out of any hostility to the East-India Company.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that it had been suggested to him that it would be better
 625
 Mr. Hume wanted merely to put the question of the renewal of the East-India Company's Charter on a footing similar to that of the Bank of England Charter. He had no objection to fix the term of the Company's government of India at twenty years; but he wished an intermediate period should be fixed—say ten years, as in the Bank Charter, when it would be optional with Parliament to re-consider the Charter, and amend, or abrogate, or continue, as they chose. He thought it a principle which ought to be particularly recognized, that great questions, such as the present, should be reviewed by the House every ten years at the least. If the right hon. Gentleman would consent to adopt and embody this suggestion, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  suggested the postponement of these points to some other more fitting period, for instance, when the General Customs' Bill should be under consideration.
 Mr. Hume  rose to object to the extension of the East India-Company's Charter to the year 1854. He thought, twenty years too long a period to consign the government of India into the hands of the East-India Company. In his opinion, public interest required, that some break should take place in that period; and the House should, as in the case of the Bank Charter, say, that at the end of ten years it should be open to the Government, if the public interest required it, to recall the Charter; it being impossible to say what events, political or commercial, might take place requiring the adoption of such a step. The question was whether they should bind themselves and their successors for twenty years to the present arrangement let what would happen. Circumstances might take place in India, in the mean time, to render a modification of the government in that country necessary. Should this not turn out to be the case, there was no reason to believe, that Government would make any alteration
 619
 Mr. Hume said, that the Committee was consuming its time in useless discussion, for they were left unacquainted with the very point they were disputing about—namely, the establishment of councils attached to the subordinate governments. The intentions of the Government should be distinctly stated on that subject.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  admitted the hardship of proprietors having to come such a distance as from Scotland to London to vote in the election of Directors, as was the case in his own election, and at their own expense too, for none of them would allow their expenses to be paid; but though he admitted this, he did not think the effect of this clause would be greatly to extend the constituency of the Directors, for most of the proprietors in England would attend, and few of those who would not attend would be at the trouble of sending an authority to have their vote given by attorney.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson suggested, that the Presidencies of Madras and Bombay should be allowed to remain on their present footing, and that there should be established at Agra a government subordinate in rank to the others, but suited to the circumstances of that part of our Indian territory. If the Presidencies of Madras and Bombay were to be reduced in the manner proposed, no men of efficient talents or high character would be induced to accept them, and the result would be that the whole of India must fall under the dominion of one governor unassisted, utterly uncontrolled—a state of things which he could but regard as fraught with much mischief.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson said, that the hon. member fur Sheffield had no occasion to tell the Committee that the whole question was open to discussion. If any hon. Member thought, that the terms made with the Company, were not such as the public had a right to expect, it was certainly open to him to oppose them. The hon. Member spoke of handing over India to the government of the Court of Directors. But the fact was, that the Board of Control and his Majesty's Ministers, were responsible for the government of that country, as well as the Board of Directors of the East-India Company it was the duty of the House, in making a great change in the government of India, to take care that the people of that country should have confidence in the stability of the government under which they were to be placed. But if the Charier were to be renewed every ten years, which, in fact, would limit the office of the Directors to little more than seven years, there could be no confidence in the stability of their measures. The Company, with every facility for carrying on the trade with China, had given that up for the advantage of the public, and they ought certainly to be enabled to look with confidence to the management of the territorial revenue, and to the permanence and stability of the government. He trusted, therefore, that the Committee would have no hesitation in agreeing to the Clause, as it originally stood.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that no reason had been given for this limitation. It was highly important that the Government of India should be assured to the Company for a sufficient term, because their dividends were to be paid out of the surplus of the territorial revenue—thus giving them the strongest interest in the good government of India. In considering the claim of the Company, the large property given up by them should not be left out of consideration.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the Company by Act of Parliament, were compelled to equip their ships in a particular way in case of war.
 Mr. Robert Gordon  opposed the Amendment, as calculated to give Parliament power of control over the Board of Directors, and depriving the latter of that feeling of power and reasonable stability, so essential in producing good government.
 Mr. Robert Grant  protested against the notion, that the Company was to be considered a mere council-board to the King's Government. If he entertained that view, he would not continue the Company even ten years. It was, undoubtedly, intended to be the real governing power of India, and upon that principle he supported this measure. He would have been ready to have given the Company that power, without fixing any definite term at all; because he knew, that the most useful improvements were suspended from a consciousness that the period for reconsidering the whole system would arrive too soon to admit of the improvement being accomplished.
 Mr. Robert Grant  observed, that if the members of the Board were permanent, and the chief of it were not, he might often be subjected to the inconvenience of finding himself out-voted on the business of his department.
 Mr. Robert Grant  thought it right that all the presidencies should be subordinate to one supreme government, which being at present fixed at Calcutta, could not conveniently be changed in locality. He should be sorry to imagine that the presidencies would be placed in such a situation under this Bill as to render the acceptance of their direction by persons of weight and character at all problematical. It was proposed to make the three presidencies equal in point of rank, and he had no doubt that competent persons would be found to act as governors. The Bill was so framed as to leave it open for future discussion whether the subordinate governments in India should have councils or not attached to them. He would therefore suggest that that point should not be brought into discussion now. It was absolutely necessary to enlarge the council of the Governor-General, and to give it more comprehensive powers, in order to relieve him in some degree from a load of business which was too much to be imposed on any one individual.
 Mr. Hubert Grant  said, that the whole of the plan of his Majesty's Government
 633
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that the same objection might be raised in any case where a vote was given by proxy; for instance, a peer voting for the representative peers of Scotland or Ireland might send in his list, and die before it was tendered as his vote, but unless his death was known at the place of voting at the time of the putting in of the list, his vote would be good. It was only two nights ago, in the other House, that the proxy of a noble Lord was used, but it happened that the noble Lord had expired before the proxy was tendered as a vote.
 Mr. Macaulay said, the term of twenty years was originally the proposition, not of the Government, but of the Company. He agreed that the House had the power to revise any arrangement which the Government made; but he did not see why it should be treated as a nullity; on the contrary, he thought strong reasons should be required, before they set aside any part of an arrangement founded on a negotiation of which they generally approved. It was suggested to him, that the best criterion by which to know whether a country was well or ill governed, was the state of its finances—certainly, that was so. Now, if the government of India was so bad as to throw its finances into confusion, so that they should require to apply to Parliament, then that would let in the whole question in the same manner as was done in 1773 and in 1784.
 Mr. Ewart,  before the Speaker left the Chair, would move, that the Committee should be instructed to consider the propriety of admitting East-India sugar and coffee (the produce of free labour) into this country, on equal terms with the produce of the slave labour of the West Indies; and to consider the propriety of giving facilities to the admission of sugar and coffee generally, the produce of free labour.
 Mr. Ewart  thought it desirable that an arrangement of this kind should be terminable in as short a time as possible, should Parliament think it advisable.
 The Speaker said, that according to the present regulations of the House, they could not move those instructions at the morning sitting, as it would be investing themselves with a greater power than they
 617
 The Solicitor General  said, he feared there was great reason to apprehend, though he imputed blame to no one, that above 100 individuals had been illegally tried at the Old Bailey. The circumstances, as he understood them, were these:—Towards the end of the Sessions it was stated to the Judges that some bills of indictment had not been lawfully found; an inquiry took place into the facts, and the Judges were induced to put an end to the trials. A meeting of the Judges took place at the chambers of the Chief Justice of the King's Bench, and they were unanimously of opinion that the trials which had taken place were illegal. They caused information to be given to the Middlesex Magistrates, in order that the Grand Jury might be resummoned, the witnesses resworn, the bills again presented, and the accused retried; but the Middlesex Magistrates thought they knew the law better than the Judges. They
 634
 The Solicitor General  said, the Judges did not come to their decision till they had previously examined the Crier and Officers of the Court.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the Judges had employed au unauthorized officer, the Clerk of the Peace, to communicate with the Magistrates. He denied the existence of the practice affirmed to have existed by the hon. Member. He had made inquiries, and was convinced no such practice had ever existed. On former occasions when the Court adjourned, they met again on the adjournment day; but, on the present occasion, there was a careful attendance of Magistrates on Monday, and they adjourned to bare walls on the Tuesday and Wednesday.
 The Solicitor General  thought the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the best which could be acted upon.
 Sir Robert Inglis  concurred with the hon. member for Kircudbright in thinking, that the geographic extent of the Indian possessions of this country was far too great to justify the reposing of their government in any single Individual.
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed his satisfaction, that his right hon. friend opposite and his Majesty's Ministers had preserved so much of the mode of government and detail of management with reference to one of the largest civilized empires in the world. The Bill bore sufficient evidence, that his Majesty's Government was satisfied with the merit of the system pursued by the East-India Company. He also declared his satisfaction with the whole progress of
 618
 Sir Robert Inglis said, the question was, how could the Government of India be best conducted, with regard to the interests of that country, as well as of England? As to the period, and whether it should be ten twenty years, he should prefer the latter, because, if it were for ten years, it would be virtually only seven years, as the last two or three years would be occupied in discussing and agitating the question of renewing it; so if it were for twenty years, it would be virtually seventeen years.
 Sir Robert Inglis  read an extract from the evidence given before the East-India Committee by the right hon. Mr. Courtenay, in support of the propriety of some members of the Board being Permanent.
 Mr. Clay  said, perhaps it might not be inappropriate for him to say a few words in reference to the distress which would be produced in particular districts of the metropolis, and among a particular class of the community of the naval establishment, if the Company were at once broken up. He was quite aware that there was very great difficulty in any Member of the House adverting to the propriety of the Company's continuing to trade, when the Company themselves seemed to have consented, as a part of their bargain with the Government, that their trade should be abandoned. But, as the mode in which the mercantile concerns of the Company were to be wound up, was still under consideration,
 629
 Lord Sandon  opposed the Amendment, on the ground that, it was impossible for the government of India, during the lime proposed, to make those improvements in the arrangements of the revenue, and the government in general, which were necessary to give stability and consistency to the government of India.
 Colonel Evans  was prepared to prove, that the House and Window taxes, to which the petition referred, was not just and impartial, and the people would be pusillanimous slaves if they endured them without complaint. The Ministry had irrevocably pledged themselves on four subjects—the East and West-India questions, the Bank Charter, and the repeal of the Assessed-taxes. The East-India question, as far as related to the throwing open of the China trade, had been in contemplation by the previous Government, who were prepared to recommend it to the House before they quitted office; so
 640 l
 Mr. Denison  would declare, in answer to some hints thrown out by the hon. and gallant member for the city of Westminster, that if the present Government should be obliged to leave office, they could not be succeeded by any set of men who had the real interests and happiness of this country more sincerely at heart than they had. He thought the present a most unfit and inconvenient period for discussions of this nature, and he wished to know how it was possible to present the petitions of the people if the time was thus consumed in the discussion of party politics? He supported the petition.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, his hon. friend seemed to speak with a good deal of authority upon the subject, but such a late attention to the wishes of the people would not give them satisfaction. Pressed as the Government now were, placed in all sorts of difficulties in order to keep their places, he did not doubt but that their hearts would soften a little towards the people; but that conduct would not satisfy the people, nor would it induce him to give one vote in order to keep on the Treasury benches a Ministry who had broken every pledge they had made for a long series of years. Any change would be for the better, for they must either get a better or a worse Government, and a worse would not stand for a week.
 The Earl of Kerry  hoped the hon. member for Cork (Mr. E. O'Connor), who had spoken about pledges, would bring the question of Repeal of the Union fully and fairly before the House, to which the hon. Member was pledged.
 Mr. John E. Stanley , trusted that those
 643
 Mr. Chapman  presented a Petition from a place in Meath, complaining of the enforcement of Tithes, and praying for relief.
 Mr. Denison  thanked the hon. Member for the temperate manner in which he had brought forward the subject. He could assure the House, that that gaol was as clean and well regulated as any one in the kingdom.
 Mr. Tennyson  had frequently visited prisons in his quality of Grand. Juror; and when he heard of a chairman telling a Foreman that he would send him to gaol for pressing that right, and when they found that a fine of ten pounds was inflicted, it was necessary for Grand Jurors to have the matter settled.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that the Foreman was fined for using violent language in the Court, and not for claiming a right to visit the prison.
 Mr. Kennedy,  as a member of the Committee, wished to observe, that the hon. Member for Oldham had, according to a practice not unusual with him, stated as facts things which were of a very opposite character to facts. He had stated, that a copy of the evidence had been furnished to the Secretary of State before a copy had been supplied to the members of the Committee themselves; it was true that a copy was furnished to the Secretary of State, with the permission of the hon. Member himself, but the Committee had also a copy of each day's proceedings, each succeeding day, ac-cording to usual practice. It was also insinuated, that because a copy was furnished to the Secretary of State, extracts were furnished by him to Popay; but the hon. Member had no right to draw such an inference; the hon. Member should recollect that the Committee had given permission for Popay to see the whole of the evidence, and, therefore, he had an opportunity of taking extracts if he pleased. Indeed it was indispensable that Popay should have a copy of the evidence, as his character was attacked. But as to any Member of the Government giving him permission to publish paragraphs in the newspaper alluded to, he disbelieved it. No person connected with the Government had anything to do with that publication.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, it was a little remarkable that the Secretary of State should wish for a copy of the evidence when the conduct of the Government was not impugned. Had he been present in the Committee at the time, he would have protested against it. When such was the case, it was perfectly natural that the hon. member for Oldham should assume, upon his seeing the paragraph in the newspapers, that Popay, who was charged, and, in point of fact, proved to be a spy, had access to the evidence, through the Secretary of State, and had published it. He could have got it in no other way; for, although it was ordered, that Popay should have a copy of the evidence against him, yet the copies of the evidence were not yet delivered. The inference of the hon. member for Oldham was, at least, a natural one.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. member for Oldham had stated this paper to be published under the sanction of the police. He doubted very much whether the police ought to become gazetteers, and certainly if their conduct were impeached, they had no right to publish to the world that the witnesses against them were persons of bad character.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, when it was proposed in Committee, that Popay should be furnished with a copy of the evidence, it was stated, that if he were so furnished with it, he would have to pay the expense; upon which it was arranged that he should be permitted to see the Secretary of State's copy.
 Mr. Wynn  objected to copies of the evidence being furnished for such a purpose, or that Counsel should be permitted to cross-examine the witnesses. It was contrary to all rule and precedent.
 Colonel Evans  thought, that the observation of the hon. Member was very just; but, on the same principle, Popay should have abstained from attacking the conduct of the witnesses against him. He thought it would be satisfactory to the House and the public, if the noble Lord would declare, that, should such conduct be repeated, serious notice would be taken of it.
 Colonel Hay  expressed his hope, that the hon. Baronet would not withdraw the Motion; and if no other Member should take it up, he himself would.
 Mr. O'Connell  also expressed his hope, that the Motion would not be withdrawn. The hon. Baronet ought to stand by his Motion, it was right that Members should be at their posts, if any crisis should arise to call for their united efforts. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) had said, that the measure was one for which there was no precedent—forgetting that, for the last century, it was impossible that there should have been any precedent; for the House of Commons, during that period, had only been another instalment of the House of Lords. They could not quarrel with their masters; but the present House of Commons had no masters. If any Government were sure of being opposed the moment they attempted to do a popular act, it was unquestionably the duty of the Members of the House of Commons to be at their posts, and to do their utmost that the good of the people should be the only object of both Houses of Parliament. There was no one less attached than he was to the Church Temporalities Bill. He considered it only a miserable instalment towards the payment of what was justly due to the people of Ireland. Still he would have it rather than nothing at all. He would give the Motion his hearty support, and he trusted, that the House would show itself determined to do justice to the people.
 Colonel Evans  expressed his surprise at seeing his two hon. friends, who had both voted against the Bill in question, now such strenuous advocates for it. He was convinced that the public were no more alarmed about the passing of the Church Temporalities' Bill than any other Bill. No doubt there was a strong feeling in its favour in that House, but it was not shared by the public.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  thought that the course proposed was wrong. He had never heard before of a Motion anticipatory of a decision of the House of Lords, and he considered it unwise. He thought it would imply a great misgiving of the other House of Parliament, and that it would be a great departure from their own dignity to anticipate what would be the course of their Lordships' proceedings. If the House of Commons overstepped its privileges, it would be an invitation to all other assemblies, legally or illegally constituted to overstep theirs; and if they agreed to this measure with the view of over-awing the House of Lords, he sincerely believed that they would be pushing their privileges too far; but he also sincerely believed that they would not pass the Motion. He hoped the hon. Baronet would be induced to withdraw it. That, in his opinion, was the wisest, the safest, and the most dignified course.
 Mr. Tennyson  declared, that whatever reflected honour upon the noble Lord would give the highest satisfaction to him. He had wished anxiously to hear the opinions of his Majesty's Government upon this question, because he could not believe, that the Ministers of the Crown would lend themselves to a Motion which it was plain from what had fallen from the hon. Mover was intended as a menace to the other House of Parliament. In such a menace he could never concur. Whatever might be thought of his political views and his conduct in that House he was determined to hold by the Constitution, and could not consent to a step, the ultimate object of which was to place the other branch of the Legislature under the entire control of one political party in the State. He did not concur in the opinions of the present House of Lords, but, because he did not, was he prepared for a revolution? Was he prepared to take a step which would tend to place the House of Lords in utter subserviency to that House, and the political body which governed that House? With respect to the particular measure which induced the hon. Baronet to bring forward this Motion, he believed that the public took no interest in it whatever, and, although the
 658 Loud laughter
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that having expected from the foregoing part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, that he was about to oppose the Motion, it was with no inconsiderable surprise that he had heard the short turn the right hon. Gentleman took at the close of what he addressed to the House. He had some difficulty in conceiving the grounds upon which the right hon. Gentleman came to a conclusion apparently so much at variance with his own sentiments, until he explained, no doubt much to the satisfaction of the House, his desire that his own important, and he presumed practical Motion, should have a full attendance of hon. Members. He was not surprised as the right hon. Gentleman had undertaken to submit a Motion on the 23rd of July, for a Repeal of the Septennial Act, concluding that that question would be adequately discussed and brought to some practical issue this Session—he was not surprised that under such circumstances the right hon. Gentleman should be anxious for a large audience. The right hon. Gentleman had advanced two doctrines of which he could not of course dispute the sincerity, but which he found some difficulty in reconciling with each other. The right hon. Gentleman professed the greatest anxiety to promote whatever could tend to the honour and credit of his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and declared his great regard for him as a member of the Administration. He had not had the pleasure of being present at
 659 660 661
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that what had fallen from him had been misrepresented. He had not expressed any wish for a Tory Administration. What he had said was, that it would be easy to form a better Administration than the present, and that if a worse were formed, in his opinion, it could not endure for a week.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the Motion being withdrawn.
 Mr. O' Connell  persisting in demanding a division.
 Mr. Wynn  objected to the clause, as giving to the Governor General a vast and unnecessary power. The clause established principles totally different from those on which the government of India had been conducted for the last fifty years. He understood, the reason for it was to enable the Governor General to have some control over the Supreme Court; but there never had been a contest between the two to justify such an enactment.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, the question seemed to have been discussed as if there were but two parties, Whigs and Tories; but he would only support that class that did best for the people, without regard to party. He eared not who was Minister, so that the Administration were one that would uphold the interests of the country.
 Lord John Russell  admitted the propriety of dealing with all those who attended public meetings on the same principle. As long as a man only gave free vent to his political opinions, he deserved no punishment, but between that and attending meetings of which the avowed object was to resist the law, there was a broad distinction. He was not precisely aware of the facts of the case alluded to, but he had no doubt it was upon that principle that his noble friends had acted.
 Lord John Russell  wished to say a few words in explanation of the vote which he should feel bound to give upon this question. He could not vote in favour of the Motion, because, although such would not be the fair interpretation, it would be understood pretty generally to be meant as a threat, previous to a vote to be given in the other House of Parliament. He thought that it would not be becoming in that House to do, nor becoming in the King's servants, to join in doing, any act which might have that appearance. But he could not vote against the Motion without disclaiming the feeling by which the hon. member for Surrey seemed to consider his Majesty's Ministers to be influenced. It was not because the storm was blown over, that he was ready to consent to the withdrawal of the Motion. On
 662
 Major Beauclerk  was favourable to the Irish Church Temporalities' Bill, not because it supported the Church Establishment, but because he thought it would assist in destroying that Establishment, The noble Lord seemed to think that the storm had blown over.
 Major Beauclerk  said, as far as he understood the case, the fine was not for contempt of Court, but only for asserting a right to visit the gaol.
 Major Beauclerk  presented a Petition from freeholders and others of East Surrey, adopted at a public meeting, praying for a commutation of taxes, and complaining particularly of the Malt and Assessed taxes on houses and windows. He should have been most happy in presenting such a petition if he thought it likely to receive the attention of Government, but he feared, from what had been evinced, that there was little to expect from the present Ministry. The people had not been enamoured with Reform, because it was the means of turning and keeping out a Tory, and keeping in a Whig Government, but because they hoped through it, to have a reduction of taxation. He was extremely sorry that Government had so bitterly disappointed those expectations. In consequence of what bad fallen from the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he bad made particular inquiry at various markets, and other suitable places in the county of. Surrey, and the result of his research had been a more thoroughly confirmed opinion of the distresses of the agricultural interests. He hoped that Ministers would have that regard to sound policy ill the present stale of the country, which dictated the total repeal of those odious taxes, according to the prayer of this petition, and in compliance with the universal wishes of a united people.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that as to a change of Ministers, he for one did not think it would be conducive to the interests of the country that such a change should take place at present; and, he certainly would not seek for a better Administration through a worse one.
 Mr. Hawes  presented a Petition from the Grand Jury of the late Easter General Sessions of Newington, Surrey, complaining of the withholding of their rights to inspect the County Gaol. For persisting in that right one of the Grand Jurors had been fined 10 l
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, there was nothing to prevent a native of British India becoming a member of the Council, and filling that fifth place which was not to be filled by a servant of the Company. As to promulgating the laws, the Board of Directors were by one clause directed to establish regulations for promulgating them.
 Mr. Divett  said, he would not allow the foul libel of the hon. member for Oldham on the Magistracy of England to pass without a most positive contradiction.
 Mr. Fergus O'Connor  agreed in the
 639
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that it would be the greatest hypocrisy to pretend to conceal that the attendance in the House of Commons had fallen off lately; but the present attendance showed that there was no relaxation of the efforts of the House. He thought that, upon the whole, the most prudent course would be to adopt the
 655
 Mr. Abercromby  supported the Motion. By it the House was taking a step which pledged only its own body, and there were peculiar and unprecedented circumstances which called upon them to do so.
 Mr. Briscoe  supported the prayer of the petition. He was present at the meeting where it was agreed to, and could testify to the House, that the persons present were of the greatest respectability, and were all unanimous in demanding the repeal of these odious taxes.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that was not the time to make speeches in praise or censure of Ministers; the time was very near at hand when the subject would be forced upon their consideration. In his opinion the best way to support public credit was, by lessening taxes to such a degree as to enable the people to pay them. He cordially supported the petition, and wished to inform the House, that public meetings were now holding in all parts of the country for the purpose of presenting similar petitions. The time had now arrived when Government must meet the wishes of the people on this subject.
 Mr. Hume  supported the prayer of the Petition. The people of England as well as those of Ireland would no longer voluntarily submit to that tax. They were determined that both tithes and Church rates should he abolished. Ministers, he must say, did not deal fairly. They dismissed men from office who attended liberal meetings, while they allowed those who attended meetings of their enemies to go unpunished. That was not even-handed justice, he warned the Ministers that the people would no longer support them in such a course.
 Mr. Hume  admitted the necessity of the Governor General having great power; but he wished that it were subject to some control by public opinion. He desired to see all his laws made public before they were acted on, and he should also desire that the debates in the Council might be known to the public. He wished to know whether a native might not be appointed a member of each of the different Councils?
 Mr. Hume  did not care about the Church Temporalities Bill, but hoped his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, would not press for a division; if, however, his hon. and learned friend did so, he should vote for the Motion.
 Mr. Fryer  said, the radicals and reformers did not know what they wanted. Why did not the Members unite together, and not belike a rope of sand? Nothing was done, and nothing obtained, because there was a want of unity among them. Had the Opposition among whom were all the complaints, done their duty, the obnoxious taxes would have been repealed, or the supplies would have been stopped.
 Mr. Sheil  certainly could not see any good reason why Sir Richard Nagle had been dismissed for attending tithe meetings. The Irish Church had been distinguished for the mischief it had done—it had destroyed the Whig Government in 1807. It had destroyed the Government of the Duke of Wellington, and he did not say it would destroy the present Government; but it was high time Ministers looked to the probable consequences of their own actions.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the Supreme Courts in India were established to protect Europeans from the power of the Governor General, and that principle had been wholly overlooked in this clause. He believed that, to remove these Europeans from under the protection of the Supreme Court would shake the security of property at Calcutta. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved an Amendment, the object of which was to secure to the British and other residents of the town of Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta, all the rights and privileges of British law, as now administered by the King's Courts in those presidencies respectively.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that the power to be given by the clause was absolutely necessary, for the greatest inconvenience had already been experienced by an opposition between the Executive power and the Courts of Judicature, which neither party had the power to put an end to. There was an effectual control over the conduct
 664
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that popay had been allowed to have access to the evidence, for the special purpose of enabling his Counsel to cross-examine the witnesses. In bringing the matter before the House, the hon. member for Oldham had designated the man Popay as a spy, and that he had published the extracts of the evidence. Now he thought it was too much to fix so odious an appellation upon the man before he was convicted of being so, or to set him down as the publisher of the evidence before there was any proof to that effect. If, through the inquiry, it was shown, that Popay deserved such a designation, he would be the first to say, let the consequences of his conduct be attached to him; but, in common justice, hon. Members should abstain from making such assertions until the whole truth was known.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had been always present in the Committee when five members were there, and therefore he knew what passed in the Committee better than the hon. Member who preceded him. Popay was to have the evidence read to him next Wednesday, and then to have a lawyer, and to be permitted to cross-examine the witnesses if he pleased. So that he had never yet had a copy of the evidence, nor was it ever ordered, that he should have a copy. Popay had told the Committee, that he had seen a copy at the Secretary of State's Office, and had
 649
 Mr. Cobbett : That the publication aspersed the character of the witnesses.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, as truth was a libel, he could not say he was not a libeller.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to complain of what he considered a Breach of Privilege. The House would remember it had been stated in the House, a short time since, that Police Spies were about. A publication had been put forth to-day of a very singular nature, and which had all the appearance of being sent forth under the auspices of the head of the police. The publication set forth at great length the evidence that had been given before the Committee appointed to investigate into the facts contained in the petition presented by him (Mr. Cobbett) from persons belonging to the Union of Walworth and Camberwell. And not content with that, various comments were made; and it was stated, that there was little doubt the Committee would acquit the accused, for the evidence of the parties who had been examined against the police was contradictory, and the witnesses themselves were persons of disreputable character. It appeared also, that the Secretary of State had been most improperly furnished with a copy of the proceedings, whilst the Committee was sitting, certainly, without his consent, and before the Committee had been furnished with it. The spy Popay had been permitted by the Secretary of State to take extracts of the evidence given against him, which he had published in the newspapers, aspersing the character of the witnesses. Having put the House in possession of these facts, he would leave the House to act as it thought proper.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, in Queen Elizabeth's time, persons who were called poor people, are now called paupers; those who were once called gaolers, are now called Governors; so that both the English language and English feeling were perverted, he believed the plain truth was, that the Magistrates and Governors of gaols wished
 646
 Mr. Cobbett  wished to say a single word upon the petition. It did not state, that the petitioners wished for the repeal of the whole Malt-tax. [Mr.  Briscoe
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the publication took place in a paper called the  Police Gazette
 Mr. Finn  said, the conduct of the present Government towards Ireland was just as bad as was that of the Emperor Nicholas towards the Poles, and only the moderation of the Irish prevented them from making a resistance similar to that the Poles had made to the Russians.
 Mr. Finn  said, that Ministers had dismissed Colonel Butler from the Magistracy in Kilkenny, and the consequence was, that the people had dismissed the Ministerial candidate, and sent Colonel Butler to that House. He had also been sent to the House by the people to aid the Colonel in protecting their rights, and support the Ministers while they did that, and he would not support them one moment longer.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, the Act of Parliament, (the Gaol Act) did not give the Grand Jury any further powers than they before possessed, for it related chiefly to building and repairing of the gaol. He thought, however, that Grand Juries had the power to inspect gaols before they could be called on to make any presentment, and, he hoped, that no Court would resist their viewing a gaol unless something particular prevented it. As to fining one gentleman ten pounds, he really thought it could not be for requesting to view the gaol, but for something which occurred afterwards, and the proceedings were not before the House to enable them to judge of the question.
 The Solicitor General  said, the Grand Jury had no right to inspect the gaol as visitors, but they certainly had the right to view and inspect the building both inside and outside, in order to report or represent whether it was in a proper state for carrying the laws and regulations of the Magistrates into effect. It was right that he should inform the House, that, with respect to the fine of ten pounds, it having been levied for a contempt of Court, it could not be brought before any Court by way of action. There was, he believed, no remedy for it. It was to be supposed, that no fine could have been inflicted without some very great provocation having been given; but, at the same time, he could not suppose that any gentleman, in the situation of Foreman of a Grand Jury, and supported by all his fellows, would be guilty of any provocation to render so extreme a course necessary. He repeated, that the Grand Jury had a right to inspect the whole of the gaol, both inside and outside, for the purpose of making their presentment; but that they had no right to go further, and inquire into the discipline, as that power was expressly given to the visiting Magistrates.
 The Solicitor General  asked: Would it not be magnanimous on the part of hon. Members to postpone these multifarious attacks upon the Ministers until they were present to refute them, which he was satisfied they would have very little difficulty to do? It could not be expected, that he, who only attended in the House for the purpose of presenting a petition, and was the only person present connected with the Government, should he prepared on the moment to defend every Ministerial measure, both foreign and domestic, which had been the subject of attack by different Members. The course adopted appeared to him exceedingly unfair, as it was most distinctly understood, that the morning sitting should be devoted to the presentation of petitions, and not made the vehicle of general discussions on politics.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that, as far as he was concerned, he was perfectly ready to withdraw the Motion; nothing being farther from his wishes than to do anything likely to embarrass his Majesty's Government. He certainly had conceived that the dignity of the House would be best consulted by the course which he recommended; at the same time he was quite disposed to accede to the suggestion of his noble friend; and if the hon. Gentlemen who had expressed their intention to divide with him concurred in that acquiescence, he would withdraw his Motion, not otherwise.
 Sir John Wrottesley  rose to bring forward his Motion for ensuring the attendance of hon. Members on Thursday next, in case the two Houses of Parliament should come into collision upon the subject of the Church Temporalities (Ireland) Bill. It might, perhaps, be made a question why he did not bring forward such a Motion at an earlier period; but he had thought it adviseable to postpone it until it could be in some degree ascertained what course the other branch of the Legislature was likely to pursue. He thought it now desirable, with the means which they at present had of judging what the intentions of certain persons might possibly be, to enable the House to have the earliest possible means of calling upon the absent Members to give the speediest attendance in case the crisis, which there was now much reason to anticipate, should arrive;. He did not consider, that a Motion of this sort called for many arguments to support it; but as some hon. Members did not think, that a Motion of the kind which he was about to propose should be adopted without some reasons, he would state a few of those which occurred to him. At the commencement of the Session his Majesty had told them in his most gracious speech, that there never was a period in which subjects of such immense importance as those which they would have to consider had come under the attention of the British Parliament. All would agree, that the topics upon which they had been occupied during the present Session corresponded to the description in his Majesty's Speech. There were still three subjects of the greatest importance before them—the East-India Company's Charter, the Bank Charter, and also the important question of West-India slavery. All these would still require the anxious attention of hon. Members. It might be said, that these did not afford a sufficient excuse for making a Motion, which would have the effect of recalling to London all those Members who had absented themselves, as nothing but the details of these measures remained to be considered. There was, besides these, one measure which had passed that House, and which he looked upon as exceeding all the others to which he had alluded in interest and importance,
 651 652
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he was most anxious to comply with the wishes of the House, particularly considering by whom those wishes had been expressed on both sides of the House. No man could have a stronger regard than he had for the present Administration, That feeling was only secondary to a consideration for his own character; and if those Gentlemen who supported him in the early part of the debate, should call upon him to press the Motion to a division, he should feel himself bound in consistency to do so.
 Sir George Phillips  thought fair play was not given to the Ministers, nor did they receive sufficient credit for what they had already done for the country, considering the short period they had been in office. He deprecated all such attacks on the conduct of Ministers, which were only made behind their backs for the purpose of inflaming the public mind, when no opportunity was afforded of rebutting them [Cries of "Order"]. [Colonel  Evans
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, it was quite certain, that the Governor General must have large discretionary power; but his power was so limited by several subsequent clauses, that it was perhaps not too great.
 Sir Robert Peel  felt it his duty to take advantage of that earliest moment, first, to deprecate all discussion on the Motion of the hon. Baronet, and next to deprecate the Motion itself being persisted in. The hon. Baronet had assigned two reasons for bringing it forward, which a moment's consideration could entirely dissipate. In the first place, said the hon. Baronet, there are very many important measures before the House, not yet advanced through all their stages, and which should be discussed only in a full House. But how could it be said, that the House had neglected to attend the progress of these measures? Was it not a fact, that the principles and provisions of all those named by the hon. Baronet had been expounded and discussed before an unusually full attendance of Members? The Bank Charter had been so discussed, the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) having yielded to the sense of the House, and postponed those portions which would require a full attendance. If the attendance upon the Committee on the East-India Charter Bill was comparatively thin, was not the fair inference that little or no opposition would be made to its progress, its general principle and provisions having been approved by a full House? And as to the West-India question, he never witnessed a fuller attendance than that before which its principles and provisions were minutely detailed. No charge, therefore, could be made of non-attendance in reference to the important measures cited by the hon. Baronet. But if even it was not so, he knew not how a call of the House could remedy the evil; for after the form of that call had been complied with, it must be left to every hon. Member's discretion to bestow or neglect that close attention to the proceedings which the call was intended to enforce. However, the hon. Baronet had not rested his Motion on the necessity
 653 654
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, the people blamed the Government for not experiencing the benefits of the Reform Bill, and they blamed the House of Commons for not enforcing a reduction of taxation, and remedying the grievances under which they laboured. There was no tax that so loudly called for repeal as the House and Window-tax. He for one would never help to keep any Ministry in office unless it was for the purpose of instituting the most searching economy and unless it pledged itself to the repeal of the iniquitous tax on houses and windows.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was difficult to understand what the complaint of the hon. Member was. Was it that the publication in question referred to the proceedings of a Select Committee?
 Lord Althorp  said, this was the first time he had heard of it. He did not believe the Secretary of State had any connexion with the transaction.
 Lord Althorp  wished it to be understood that he thought it impoper to allow the police to have anything to do with such publications; indeed, he did not think the police had anything to do with it more than himself, or than the hon. and learned Gentleman,
 Lord Althorp  gave the fullest credit to his hon. friend for the motives by which he had been actuated in bringing forward the present Motion; the principle of which was unquestionable. It was undoubtedly true, that, on the passing of the measure alluded to his Majesty's Government had pledged their continuance in office. But it was equally true as had been stated, that the effect of his hon. friend's Motion might be that of appearing to throw out a menace to the other House of Parliament. Now his hon. friend had admitted, that, in the present state of public affairs, his Majesty's Government had no easy course to pursue; and he was sure that his hon. friend and his noble friend who had supported the Motion would not wish to do anything calculated to increase the difficulties under which his Majesty's Government laboured. He had no doubt that, without any stimulus, there would be a full attendance of Members in that House on the night in question. But, feeling that there were some difficulties in the course which his hon. friend proposed, he, instead of joining with his noble friend in urging his hon. friend not to withdraw his Motion, was, much more inclined to request him to withdraw it. He was quite sure, that
 657
 Lord Ebrington  said, the House surely had a right, on the occasion of a measure which they considered just—and no one who looked at this without prejudice would say that this was not just—to make inquiries on the subject of the rumour which had prevailed, particularly during the last two days, and he considered that rumour was sufficient ground for a Motion, which simply went to secure a full attendance of the Members, and ensure the performance of their duty to their constituents and to themselves. He confessed that he considered the rumour so incredible and absurd, that it would obtain no credence among Members of that House; but it was calculated to produce an impression upon their constituents, particularly in distant parts of the country. Their constituents must wish, and feel, that it was the duty of their representatives to be at their posts if a crisis should arise, which common report led
 656
 Lord Ebrington  said, if the matter complained of was a breach of privilege, the hon. Member could bring it before the House in a substantive shape, when other hon. Members of the Committee would be able to give their opinion of the matter. The Motion would come with propriety from a Member of the Committee.
 Sir Harry Verney  objected to the clause, on the ground that it would be attended with great mischief, by enabling the Court of Directors to empower the governors of any of the provinces to carry on their administrations without the aid of a council. He considered it highly injurious to place such extraordinary powers in the hands of any government.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it ought undoubtedly to be enacted, that the acts of the Governor should be done with the advice of a council. That was an appropriate check on the Governor, at the same time he should be allowed, in cases of emergency, to act contrary to their advice, on recording his reasons for doing so Unless the Governor were obliged to state his reasons, for acting in opposition to his council, the Government at home and the Court of Directors, would never know upon what ground he proceeded, and must be unable to decide on the real merits of the case. He trusted that the clause would not be maintained; but if it were, it ought to be transposed. The Bill enacted a change, and then it gave liberty to revert to the old system. The enactment ought to be, that the Governor should not act without council, and that the Board of Control or the Court of Directors should have, as the exception, the power of relieving the Governor from the restriction of acting with a council. The council was a part of the old system which had never been called in question. All experience justified it. He trusted, therefore, that his right hon. friend would reconsider the clause, which, in fact, required much deliberation before it was carried into effect. He repeated, that it altered a most wholesome, and perhaps, the most beneficial part of the present system, and it ought not hastily to be carried into effect.
 Mr. Hume  thought, his hon. friend's views were supported by the fact, that the Governors of Madras and Bombay were very often persons who had never before been in India; and how could such men act without a council? He was convinced that the House would act most injudiciously, and expose India to much danger, were this clause to be carried. He should certainly oppose it. He knew no good reason for making the change. The Pre-
 667
 Sir Robert Inglis  concurred in the view of his hon. friend (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson.) If such men as Sir Thomas Munro and Mr. Elphinstone could always he found, one part of the objection would be removed, as these gentlemen had most accurate local knowledge. But as such individuals were not always to be found, and not always appointed, those who had no local knowledge must necessarily rely on the first person possessing local knowledge who could obtain influence over them. He thought that a council might be good in correcting the local prejudices even of those who had local knowledge. He opposed the clause, and concurred with the hon. member for Kirkcudbright, in saying, that at least the clause was misplaced. After the representations which had been made, he trusted that the Government would reconsider this clause.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, the clause was not placed at haphazard, but was duly considered. The real point before the Committee was, not whether or not subordinate Governors should have councils. That was part of the clause, but the exceptions and limitations accompanying it were many. In fact, the question was not decided by the clause, but it was left open to the Board of Control and the Court of Directors to decide whether the subordinate Governors should have councils or not. He did not think that the rule ought to be so inflexible that the Parliament should decide for twenty years that there must be in all cases a council. The Government thought it was better to leave the question to be decided by circumstances. The Government thought also, that where councils existed they should be continued; but in the new Presidency of Agra it was certainly proposed to appoint the Governor without a council. If it were found that the experiment succeeded in this instance, the Court of Directors, by the Bill, might supersede the councils at other Presidencies, It was
 668
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  wished responsibility with discussion, but the decision or opinion of the Secretary did not involve any responsibility; the opinion given by councillors did. He contended that his opinion was supported by the authority of Mr. Elphinstone, which was as great as that of any man who had ever been in India. He moved, as an Amendment—leaving Agra unconnected, as a part of the Presidency of Bengal—"that the Presidencies of Fort St. George and Bombay should be administered by a Governor and council." To intrust the proposed power to the Board of Control and Court of Directors was what he would not consent to. The object of his Amendment was to keep up the councils at the existing Presidencies.
 Mr. Robert Grant  thought, there was some inconsistency in the hon. Gentleman's argument, who would leave such a dangerous power, as he described it, to the Directors as to Agra, but not as to the other councils. He doubted whether Agra did not more require a council than either of the other Presidencies.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had no objection to insert Agra in his Amendment. He was willing to leave the subject to the Committee, with his hon. friend's second thoughts upon it.
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that it was essential to the good government of India, that the subordinate Governors should have the assistance of council. He did not conceive that a Secretary, who was selected and appointed by the Governor, was at all likely to give an independent opinion, or at all
 669
 Sir Harry Verney  referred to a sentiment of Mr. Canning, who stated, at Sir John Malcolm's dinner, that he believed that no Monarchy in Europe had in the same time produced so many great men as the Administration of India. Taking that view, he thought it was incumbent on the Government not: to mate this alteration without great consideration. He would not support the clause.
 Mr. Charles Buller  recommended the Ministers not to abandon the proposed plan. He was in favour of the clause, and quoted the opinion of Mr. Holt Mackenzie, to justify the leaving the Governors without council, if that were thought desirable by the Court of Directors. The Governors were executive officers, and responsibility was more complete by being vested in one person than in several.
 Mr. Charles Marjoribanks  thought the hon. member for Kirkcudbright was perfectly right, and that this was a most dangerous innovation. He hoped that the clause would not receive the sanction of the Committee.
 Colonel Evans  had heard no reasons to justify so important an alteration, and unless some proof of evil resulting from the present system were brought before the Committee, he should hope that the Government; would not persevere in the clause, which be thought ought to be reconsidered. It was the practice to send Governors to these Presidencies totally unacquainted with the manners of the people, and to take away the council from such men would be most dangerous. He objected to making Agra an independent Presidency: it ought to remain dependent on Bengal.
 Mr. Charles Grant , repeated, that the Bill would make no change in Bombay and Madras. Those Presidencies would remain as they were. It would certainly be open hereafter to make a change in them if the experiment to be made at Agra was found to answer.
 Lord Ashley  thought, that the councils were necessary. They were an efficient control on the Governor, and were persons of responsibility. During the time he was in office, be knew that the interference of the council saved one of the Presidencies from serious mischief.
 Mr. Strult  said, the only question was, whether the point should be settled by Parliament or be kept open to be settled by the Directors. It was admitted by those who opposed the clause, that it was wise to make the experiment with Agra, and, therefore, it was absurd to tie up the hands of the Directors as to trying the same experiment with Madras and Bombay. He should support the clause. He would give no opinion, however, as to the propriety of doing away with the councils of the two Presidencies in question.
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished to suggest, as an Amendment, that the whole of the clause should be left out, with a view of substituting a different arrangement. The question was put on Sir Harry Verney 's Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  could not concur in the proposal.
 Mr. Strutt  supported the Amendment. He thought that the great fault of the government of India was that of giving to
 671
 Mr. Hume  asked, if it would not be better to separate the duties of the Governor General from the minor details of any one of the Presidencies? He would support the Amendment.
 Colonel Evans  rose to order. The hon. Member had not given notice of a Motion, and it was irregular to enter into such statements when no question was before the House.
 Mr. Ruthven  rose to submit a Motion for the reduction of taxation. He did this because much of our expenditure was most unjust; and all must admit, that it was most burthensome. The chief sources of expenditure, and, consequently, of taxation, were our immense establishments, and the long list of sinecurists. Unless these were reduced, it was vain for the country to look for any substantial relief. The establishment for the payment of the National Debt, and the interest of the debt, cost no less than 28,000,000 l l l 674
 Colonel Evans  expressed his surprise, that the hon. Member should complain either of the blockade or of the notification of it. As to the blockade itself, it was the necessary result of the extermination of Don Miguel's fleet. He (Colonel Evans) complained, on the part of the British merchants, that the hon. Member should assume to represent their feelings. The hon. Member, in the same statement, expressed his admiration of the gallantry displayed by his countrymen, and his regret that they should have engaged in the contest. This was very inconsistent. Since the question had been brought forward, he could not refrain from expressing a hope, that in consequence of the event which had recently occurred, Ministers would decide upon acknowledging the sovereignty of the lawful ruler of Portugal.
 Mr. Baring  said, that, when at that side of the House, he was in the habit of voting with the noble Lords and right hon. Gentlemen, who at present composed his
 701 702
 Sir George Phillip  thanked the hon. mover for the opportunity he had given to his right hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice) to make that exposition of the views and conduct of Government on the subject of reductions. Day after day, and week after week, they had been listening to attacks made upon the Government for not making this or that reduction, and Ministers were made the subject of the most violent attacks, as if they had done nothing in the way of reduction, and bad taken off no tax whatever; it was, therefore, satisfactory that an opportunity had been afforded for undeceiving the public.
 The Lord Advocate  agreed with the hon. member for Caithness, both as to the importance of the subject, and the great interest taken in it by the people of Scotland. He hoped, however, that any abuses, and he did not deny that there were abuses, might be satisfactorily arranged; and he submitted to the hon. Member, that it was not expedient to bring forward a Motion of such importance at that late period of the Session, when it was impossible that it could lead to any beneficial or practical result. There was another and important reason why the present Motion should not be passed. It was highly probable that the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland would of itself come to a satisfactory resolution on the subject. At the last meeting of the General Assembly in May, a Motion which had been brought forward by Doctor Chalmers, for a Resolution to give the inhabitants of parishes the right of negativing the presentation of Clergymen appointed by the patrons to the charge of parishes, was negatived by a majority of twelve only out of an assembly consisting of upwards of 300 Members. It was probable, therefore, from the smallness of the majority, that at the next meeting of the Assembly, a Resolution in favour of some change would be entered into, and he submitted that it would be inexpedient to attempt to legislate upon the subject in the meantime. He doubted, too, if the Repeal of the Act, which was the subject of the hon. Member's Motion, would of itself have the effect expected from it by the hon. Member. By repealing the Act of Anne, the Act of William, passed in 1690, would be revived, which would give still less satisfaction to the people of Scotland. He therefore recommended to the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion, and to abide by another decision of the General Assembly, by which all the regulations touching the Church of Scotland since the time of John Knox had been framed. After such a decision was come to, the real grievance complained of would be known, and the House would have an opportunity of legislating on a sure and
 710
 Mr. Oswald  recommended that the matter should be left in the hands of the General Assembly.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  said, the discussion which had taken place upon the sub-
 717
 Mr. Pryme  said, it would appear extraordinary if, when they were conferring upon the people in the burghs of Scotland the power of electing their civil officers, they were to withhold from them the power of electing a Minister, with respect to whom it was of so much importance that there should be a good feeling between him and his parishioners. It was said, that the introduction of popular election in this case would be productive of continual discord in parishes. He had lived twenty years in a town where three of the parishes enjoyed popular election, in the choice of their ministers; he had thus had an opportunity of seeing its effects; and it was his opinion, that the introduction into a parish of a person who was disagreeable to the inhabitants was at least productive of equal evil.
 Mr. Pryme  should have been inclined to deny the doctrine laid down by the Chair. That, however, only showed his ignorance of the practice of Parliament; but he had thought, that the House could proceed to the repeal of any Act of Parliament without applying to his Majesty.
 Mr. Hallyburton  supported the Motion. He wished to know how they could repeal the Act establishing the present system of patronage without establishing some other system. The proposition of the hon. Member went merely to abolish the law which conferred the patronage on the Crown, for the purpose of leaving it afterwards to be determined by the House how the arrangement should be made, so as to settle the establishment on a sound footing. That was, he thought, a rational object, and he felt inclined to vote for the repeal.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that the yoke of patronage had long galled the neck of the Scottish Church, and had carried away from its protection many valuable friends. Under the existing system men had been lifted into the sacred pulpits in the Scottish Church by the assistance of an armed force, against the wishes and the hearts of the best lovers of the religion of their country. It was the abuse of the system now existing which alone induced his hon. friend to bring forward his Motion for the introduction of a Bill to remedy those abuses and to solicit its adoption by the Legislature of the country. From experience he was convinced, that it would be more beneficial to the advancement of religion to place the patronage of the Church of Scotland in the hands of the General Assembly, than to leave it as at present, in the hands of any Government. He denied the statement which had been advanced, that the Church patronage of Scotland stood on the same footing as that of England, for since the Reformation no pastor could be set over any congregation in Scotland against their consent, without a direct violation of the constitution of the Church of that country. By the proposed Bill it was sought to remedy such a violation, and was sought, he must insist, in justice to the people. In asking its adoption he was not advocating popular rights, but merely a measure for the welfare and well-being of the Church itself.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the right hon. Baronet objected to the Resolution because it was a truism, which he could not deny; then, if he negatived the proposition, he must contradict himself. [Sir  Robert Peel l
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the opinion of the House must be unanimous so far as the first part of the Resolution went, and it could only be as respected the latter that anything like an adverse discussion could arise. It was his opinion, that a most satisfactory case had been made out to show that the present Government had redeemed all the pledges they had given on the subject of economy. It was also his opinion, that the subject of sinecures ought to be separated from any abstract Resolution of the kind which had that night been submitted to the House, and he expressed that opinion with the less hesitation, feeling, as he did, that sinecures ought to be abolished. Much had been said at both sides respecting the improvident bargains made by Government; on that he had only to observe, that those arrangements and contracts had been ratified by Parliament. On the whole, he should be disposed to give his general support to Ministers in their economical arrangements, at least so far as they had gone; and this he did the more readily when he remembered the circumstance of the present Administration being the immediate successors of a Government which had done so much in the way of economy and retrenchment. Upon these grounds he joined in the request to the hon. member for Dublin to leave out that part of the Resolution which related to sinecures, in order that the House might come to a unanimous vole upon the question.
 Mr. Robinson  said, it was impossible that any communication could have been made to the Foreign Office from the Regency at Oporto since the capture of Don Miguel's fleet. He could not help admiring the gallantry of Captain Napier; but as a commercial man he must regret, that British officers and seamen had been engaged in the contest. He had suffered severely from the suspension of our commerce with Portugal. The hon. Member concluded by moving for a copy of the notification issued from the Foreign Office respecting the
 672
 Mr. Robinson  said, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to a circumstance of some importance connected with the trade of Portugal. A notification had that morning been sent to Lloyd's, from the Foreign Office, to the effect, that the regency of Donna Maria intended to establish a blockade of the port of Lisbon, and all other Portuguese ports which refused to acknowledge the sovereignty of Donna Maria. It was contrary to all rule to announce an intended blockade. Notification was never made until the blockade had actually taken place.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that in pursuance of his notice, he
 705 quantum 706
 Mr. Sinclair  stated, that he would certainly not press the Motion, but he would bring it before the House under more favourable circumstances next Session.
 Mr. George Frederick Young  thought that no hon. Member, in the course of his Parliamentary career, had ever witnessed an exhibition more absurd than that which took place that evening. The House had been occupied for upwards of four hours in discussing a question, which even the hon. Member himself who brought it forward, acknowledged to be a truism—a question, upon which no one out of doors entertained the slightest doubt. When such was the case, it was too bad to waste so much time, particularly when so many important Orders stood upon the paper. The late
 704
 Mr. Horatio Ross  said, that he could not refrain from saying a few words in seconding the Motion of his hon. friend, the member for Caithness, though he seldom took any part in the Debates of that House. He thanked the hon. Member for the very kind and handsome terms in which he had been pleased to allude to himself, and to assure him that he heartily
 707 708 709
 Mr. Abercromby  had the greatest deference for the feelings and wishes of his countrymen, especially on so serious and important a question, but he confessed he could not consent to carry that deference so far as to induce him to concur in the measure sought to be introduced. He was happy to bear, in the presence of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tam-
 713 714
 Mr. Ewing  said, it had always been considered that the system of patronage, as it existed in the Church of Scotland, was an innovation on its established principles. He cordially supported the measure.
 Mr. Colquhoun  supported the Motion for leave to bring in the Bill, the object of which simply was to repeal an Act passed during the servile and disgraceful administration of Harley and St. John, in concealment and secrecy, and in direct violation of the constitution of the Church of Scotland. He hoped the first Session of the reformed House of Commons would not be allowed to terminate without repealing this Act, passed unconstitutionally by a most profligate and servile administration. The Motion was one in which the people of Scotland were deeply interested, and he hoped it would not be withdrawn
 712
 Mr. Hume  had never stated, that the present Ministry had made no reductions in the expenditure. On the contrary, he
 695 l l l l l l l l l l l 696 l l l l l l l 697 698 699
 Mr. Thomas Kennedy  said, he was prepared to establish a proper mode of appointing Ministers, instead of the present system of Church patronage. He regretted that, the measure went in one sense too far, and in another not fat-enough. He should vote against it on that ground. He thought, however, that the present discussion, although no vote were come to upon the subject, would have a considerable effect on the General
 715
 Mr. Spring Rice :  * * 675 l 676 l l l l l l l l s d l s. d l s l l l l s d. 677 
 
 Comparison of Votes in Supply, from to 
 Estimate of Finance Committee, 
 1817 £17,350,000 
 Amount Voted. 
 1818 £18,970,959 
 1819 18,488,447 
 1820 19,673,717 
 1821 18,358,651 
 1822 16,679,633 
 1823 15,878,313 
 1824 16,734,713 
 1825 17,593,252 
 1826 17,942,963 
 1827 18,745,360 
 1828 17,776,999 
 1829 17,626,855 
 1830 16,648,762 
 1831 17,782,487 
 1832 15,411,571 
 1833 14,622,219 l l l 678 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 679 l l 
 
 An Account of Reductions effected in the Number of Persons employed, and in the Amount of Salaries, in all Public Offices or Departments, in the years 1828, 1829, 1830, 1831, and 1838, exclusive of the Coast Blockade, which was transferred from the Admiralty to the Customs in 1831.—(Extracted from the Annual Accounts of Increase and Diminution;. 
 Years. Diminution in the number of persons employed. Diminution in the amount of salaries. 
 £ 
 1828, ended. 5th January, 1829 307 27,997 
 1829 ended. 5th January, 1830 124 8,116 
 1830 ended. 5th January, 1831 478 70,064 
 1831 ended. 5th January, 1832 652 113,940 
 1832 ended. 5th January, 1833 613 106,019 
 Total Reduction. 2,174 persons £326,115 
 Reductions in the years 1828, 1829, and 1S30 909 106,177 
 Reductions in the years 1831, and 1832 1,265 219,968 
 Average reduction ill first three years 303 35,392 
 Average reduction in last two years 632 109,984 680 
 
 Therefore, had the reductions of the present Government proceeded in the same proportion with those of their predecessors, they would have reduced Persons. Salaries. 
 606 £70,784 
 But their reductions in 1832 and 1833 have been 1,265 219,968 
 Excess in favour of the present Goverment 659 149,184 l s. d s d l l l l l 681 l l l l l l 682 l s l l l l 683 l l l l l l l s d 
 
 24 Officers appointed to vacant stations from reducement list, and their allowances saved £1,956 3 0 
 172 Offices abolished on promotions 9,642 15 6 
 242 Offices vacant by death and not filled up 17,192 8 0 
 414 Officers. Total reduction £28,791 6 6 684 l. l l l l l l 685 l l l 686 l Hume terminus à quo l l 687 
 
 AMOUNT OF TAXES REPEALED, EXPIRED, OR REDUCED, FROM 1814 TO 1832. 
 Gross. Nett. 
 Customs £8,990,205 £8,820,526 
 Excise 14,078,500 12,276,700 
 Stamps 466,807 461,755 
 Taxes 18,680,017 18,242,875 
 Post Office 130,000 130,000 
 £42,345,529 £39,931,856 
 Add taxes proposed to be repealed in 1833 1,545,000 
 Total £41,476,856 
 Deduct taxes imposed 5,813,118 
 Actual amount of relief given £35,663,738 l 688 
 
 RELIEF FROM TAXATION PROPOSED IN 1831 AND 1832. 
 Printed Goods £550,000 
 Coals and Slates 900,000 
 Candles 500,000 
 Hemp, Drugs, & 140,000 
 2,090,000 
 Deduct impost on Cotton Wool 300,000 
 Total relief £1,790,000 
 
 FURTHER RELIEF PROPOSED BY THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER DURING THE PRESENT SESSION. 
 Tiles 37,000 
 Marine Insurance 100,000 
 Advertisements 75,000 
 Assessed Taxes and Farming Stock 440,000 
 Cotton Wool 300,000 
 Soap 593,000 
 1,545,000 
 £3,335,000 
 Printed Cottons, repealed. Coals and Slates, repealed. Candles, repealed. Hemp, reduced. Drugs, reduced. Tiles, repealed. Marine Insurances, reduced. Advertisement Duty, reduced one-half. Fire Insurances on Farming Stock, repealed. Small Receipt Stamps, repealed. Land Tax on Personal Estates, repealed. Soap Duty, reduced one-half. Cotton Wool, reduced. Duty on Pamphlets, repealed. House Tax on Shops, reduced one-half. Duty on Travellers or Riders, repealed. Tax on Clerks, Book-keepers, Office-men, repealed. Tax on Overseers, Managers, repealed. Tax on Shopmen, Warehousemen, Cellarmen, repealed. 689 Duty on Tax Carts, repealed. Horse Tax, payable by Market Gardeners, repealed. House Tax, payable by Licensed Victuallers, reduced one-half. Tax on Houses of 10 l Tax on Houses from 10 l l 690 691 692
 Mr. Gillon  said, that the feelings of the people of Scotland upon this important subject were, that the constitution of the present system of church patronage in Scotland was corrupt, unjust, and impolitic, as regarded the interests of that Church itself; and he was convinced, that this sentiment and opinion would daily gain ground to a degree that it would be impossible to resist the demand for a remedy. He should therefore most cordially support the Motion of his hon. friend.
 The Speaker  said, that though it was not regular to bring forward a Motion without notice, a Member had a right to do so if he pleased, and he supposed, that the hon. Member would conclude by a Motion.
 The Speaker  said, he had not before read the Act of Charles 2nd, by which the patronage in question was conferred upon the Crown; but he had since sent for it, and had read it. This was certainly a question affecting the rights and privileges of the Crown; and it was quite clear, that it could not be discussed without the consent of his Majesty.
 The Speaker  said, it was quite impossible to entertain the question in any shape. He was himself to blame for having put the question. He did not know the contents of the Act; but having called for it and read it, he found, that the Motion could not be entertained by the House without the consent of the Crown, intimated, as usual, through a Privy Councillor.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose to express his admiration of the gallant exploit performed by Captain Napier, which would have the effect of promoting the peace which all parties were anxiously looking for; indeed, he believed, that at the time he was speaking Donna Maria's authority was established in Portugal. He; hoped, that Ministers would hasten to recognize, her as the Queen  de facto
 Sir Harry Verney  could not let the observations of the hon. member for Coventry pass without some remark. That hon. Member seemed to suppose, that the expenses of the diplomatic establishment of this country might be considerably lessened. Now, he must say, that consuls under the present system were less efficient in maintaining the interests of British merchants than they had been under the former system. In his opinion they should be persons with a respectable salary, and not merchants actually engaged in trade. He recommended the Government to observe the condition of South America most attentively, particularly the extensive dominions of Paraguay, which would present a wide field to British industry and enterprise. He hoped that the Government would establish a good consulship at Monte Video, by the castle of which all ships must pass to make their way to those parts of South America, where, he believed, a most extensive commerce would be called into existence, when the Chinese system of exclusion maintained by Dr. Francia was at an end. In the same manner he advised the Government to watch the trade on the western coast of South America, as he believed it would materially affect our trade with China. It would be the more necessary to do this when we threw open, as we were about to do, the trade of China. The Americans had already directed their attention to these matters, and the Sandwich Islands had recently been made a sort of dépôt by them for their China trade, and their trade with South America.
 Mr. Henry Lytlon Bulwer  said, that though he did not think they acted rightly, who were always making attacks on the Government, and denying that they did anything, yet it must be admitted, that a watchful Opposition not confining, themselves strictly to recommendations which were easily and immediately practicable, but occasionally going a little beyond that line, and urging the Ministers forward to do something more, were of great advantage both to the country and the Ministers, the latter of whom frequently were glad to have forced on them an excuse for doing what the people required. He admitted that the Government had reduced 40,000 l l 693 l Chargé d' Affaires l l
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the Motion ostensibly referred to the appointment of ministers in the Church of Scotland; and even if its tendency were limited to the Scotch Church, as its terms implied, he would oppose it; yet, as it was perfectly clear that the principle of the Motion extended much further, and involved other establishments, he trusted the House would not think he was trespassing needlessly upon their attention while he endeavoured to point out to English Gentlemen how very much they were affected by the proposition of the hon. member for Caithness. The purport of the hon. Member's proposal was, to restore to the people of Scotland a right which, as the hon. Member said, till the 10th of Queen Anne they enjoyed. In the first place, it was much more than doubtful, how far that right was ever enjoyed by them; in fact, he believed, that in theory the right was always denied; at least, it was clear, that it never received the sanction of the General Assembly. In 1567, the General Assembly expressly declared to the Queen, that by what they had done, they did not intend in any degree to interfere with the right of patronage, but that, whomsoever her Majesty or any other patron should present with a benefice, that person should be tried by learned members of the Church, and, if found qualified, should be inducted; for, as the presentation to the benefice appertained to the patron, so the collation by law and reason belonged to the Church. In a work of authority upon this subject, the relative rights of the patron and the people were laid down and defined, and it was said, that if the patron's power to present were assumed by the people, there would be no order in the Church. The patron by law had the right of presentation, and the people had no power to divest him of it. The right of patronage in both countries was involved in the answer to this question;—who built the church, and who endowed it? If the people built or endowed the church, to the people let the patronage belong, but if it were built by one individual, and he a layman, then to him and his successors the patronage belonged. Let those who differed from the patron in their choice of a minister build and endow another church, but let
 716
 Sir Robert Peel  would not presume to say a word upon the subject, had he not had the honour for some years, of advising the Crown in its disposal of its patronage in the Church of Scotland. He agreed in the postponement recommended by the learned Lord opposite; but he differed from the learned Lord in supposing that any thing but a calm would be produced in the Church of Scotland, by devolving upon the people of each parish the right of electing their own pastor. Nor did he think that the characters of the Ministers of the Church would be raised by the change. Feuds and discords would arise which now were unheard, and which must prevail, but for the corrective of patronage. He did not contest the point for the sake of the patronage; for whilst he had the honour of advising the Crown with respect to its disposal, it never once occurred that a benefice was disposed of from any political views. If he had any reason to suppose that the majority of the respectable inhabitants of a parish were agreed in the choice of a Minister, he advised the Crown to appoint that Minister; but if he found canvassing going on, and all the artifices of election had recourse to, in favour of different candidates, he advised the Crown to listen to neither party, but to exercise its right, and make some appointment above all exception. This was not done by taking the nominee of this, or of that person, but by consulting some of the most eminent men in the Scottish Church, and taking from obscurity, perhaps, some person of merit, whose deserts deserved to be thus rewarded. If there were abuses in the patronage exercised by the Crown, or by individuals, he saw no reason why such abuses should not be corrected by the General Assembly of the Kirk, if it had the means of correcting them. All opposed the principle of devolving the right of election on the inhabitants of a parish. The dissent pointed out did not, he believed, arise from abuses in the disposal of patronage but from other causes. The question, however, was surrounded with difficulties which had not even been hinted
 711
 Sir Robert Peel  objected to the Resolu-
 703
 Sir Samuel Whalley  could not but remember that the present Ministers had come into office upon the distinct pledge of economy, and yet now in the eighteenth year of peace, the expenditure still continued most enormous. He admited, that the Ministers had made some retrenchment; but not enough to satisfy the reasonable wishes of the people. They had come into office opposed to the known wishes of a majority in another place, and had been placed by the people in a prouder situation than any of their predecessors, upon their pledging themselves to economy. Yet he could not congratulate them on their having satisfied the hopes of the people in the reductions they had effected. Perhaps, in answer to this, the noble Lord would appeal to the reduction of the duty on soap, and to the repeal of a few other comparatively trifling duties; but the people would not be satisfied till they got rid of that direct taxation which so much oppressed them. Their wishes on that subject were known to the noble Lord before he came into office, and he must be considered to have taken office with the intention of gratifying those wishes. He certainly could not
 694
 Lord Althorp  expressed his surprise at the observation of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, that no reduction had been made in the expenditure of the country save what had been effected by the reduction of the charges upon the National Debt. It was not easy to follow his hon. friend through a statement of figures, but he thought that if his hon. friend would only compare the same things in 1820, with the same things in 1833, he would find that reduction had been effected to the amount named by his right hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice). His hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, had taken 53,000,000 l l l l l l l 700
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member had a perfect right to submit his Motion without notice but he regretted, that he had done so, because it had deprived him of the opportunity of considering whether or not he ought to accede to it. The hon. Member's object appeared to be to complain of the notification which had been made to Lloyd's. He was not aware whether the notification was in the usual form; but the hon. Member must perceive, that the object was merely to warn British merchants, and he could not conceive that there was any ground to complain of that. The hon. Member had alluded to what it was impossible not to admit to be a most gallant action. The hon. Member knew, that the British officers who interfered in the contest at present going on did so at their peril. The Government could not sanction such proceedings, but at the same time it was impossible not to admire the bravery which had been displayed. If the answer which he had given the hon. Member was not so satisfactory as he could have wished, the hon. Member must attribute it to his not having given notice of his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had no wish to throw any obstacle in the way of this most important question; but it was impossible for the House to enter into the discussion of the repeal of a Statute which conferred on his Majesty certain prerogatives, without having the consent of his Majesty. He was not prepared, at this time, to give that assent. He appealed to the Speaker whether they were competent, under such circumstances, to entertain the question.
 Lord Althorp  said, that entirely depended upon what the Act. of Parliament might be. They could not proceed to take away any right or privilege of the
 718
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition. It was incumbent on the House to call upon the Government to give the petitioner redress by reinstating him in his former rank. Having himself always contended for freedom of religious opinions, he was anxious that all British subjects should have the same freedom. He concurred with the hon. Member, that the ceremonies in question were purely religious ceremonies, and could not be termed military duties. They were such that no sincere Protestant could participate in them, unless he acted as a renegade to his own religion. He respected the gentleman the more for his resistance—his very respectful resistance—to the orders, even at great risk to himself. He thought it but a compliment due to the Government to mention that regulations were made by which the Roman Catholics were left to the free exercise of their religion; and he would mention an instance. A drummer of the Galway militia refused, when ordered to go to hear Divine worship at the Protestant Church of Rathkeale, and he was ordered into custody to be tried by a Court-martial; he (Mr. O'Connell) applied to the Court of King's Bench for a  habeas corpus 785
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that undoubtedly the whole case would rest on the minutes of the Court-martial with regard to this individual; but he thought that the hon. member for Dublin rather misconceived the case in speaking of a military duty, because this he would say, although no man, of course, would wish to interfere with a man's religious scruples, that every man who was a military man was bound to obey the orders given to him, let those orders be what they might—["No  no 786
 Mr. Shell  said, that he for one could not agree to the position that all the rights
 788 789
 Colonel Evans  felt extremely glad that the petition had been presented by the hon. Member opposite. It was quite clear, that this was not a party question, and that no party feelings existed in the case. In his opinion, if ever there was a time when the absence of Ministers was more commendable than another, it was the present, because it looked as if they felt convinced they had no answer to give to this case. With respect to the noble Lord, he had certainly showed that he professed in a high degree courage which was essential to the military character; for in his (Colonel Evans's) opinion it would require no small degree of courage to be the only man in that House who would declare himself opposed to the petition which had been presented. He must, however, protest against the military doctrine which that noble Lord laid down. In the first place he had understood him to state that a soldier was bound to obey any order. With that observation he could not agree; nor did he believe it was required by the articles of war, strict and despotic as they were. He considered the case now under consideration as a melancholy proof of the want of confidence in past Parliaments, otherwise it would surely have been brought forward
 790
 The Earl of Darlington  explained: he had not stated that he did not concur with the prayer of the petition. All that he had said was, that he knew nothing of the transaction, and therefore could not enter into the merits or demerits of the case. He was still of opinion, notwithstanding all that had been said, that subordinate officers were bound to perform the orders of their superiors, even though it might interfere with their religious sentiments.
 Mr. Maxwell  supported the prayer of the petition. He thought, if the question were put on the basis of its being a paramount duty in men to attend to their religious duties in preference to their military duties, it would go with great weight before the Government, and would be of great advantage to the clear understanding of religious and military duties.
 Colonel Evans  hoped, that as the claimants themselves were daily dying, the House would not postpone the payment by involving them in another year of litigation.
 Mr. Baring  protested against the imputations of corruption which had been thrown out by the hon. member for Bridport against persons who were, however, far too high in character to be affected by them. It was an imputation also on the Lords of the Treasury, to suppose that there was any reason to believe that they would proceed to the distribution of the money without hearing the parties who were interested. He (Mr. Baring) confessed, that of all the Courts in the country, that before which he should be most sorry for any question in which he was interested to come, was the House of Commons; influenced in its decisions, as it continually was, by loose declamation and personal canvass. He had seen more injustice perpetrated by that House than proably by all the other tribunals in the country. If he had a bad case, he should be very anxious to bring it before the House of Commons; if a good one, it was the last place into which he should wish to introduce it.
 Mr. Wynn  approved of the restriction. They were to make a beginning by the present Bill, and he had no doubt that in the course of a short time they would be able to go further.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the Amendment as going ton far; it would keep whole castes in slavery. It was proper
 799
 Mr. O'Connell  opposed the clause, because it went to establish a state religion in India.
 Mr. O'Connell  would certainly take the opinion of the House upon the clause. The United Kingdom contained three great denominations of Christians. The Protestants, the Presbyterians, and the Roman Catholics. And it was a matter for consideration, whether they should erect an establishment in India for one only of these persuasions. He did not object to the Protestants in India paying for bishops of their own, as the Roman Catholics in Ireland paid for their bishops. He did not desire to have a Roman Catholic Establishment; for a salary had been given to a Roman Catholic Bishop in one part of the empire, and the consequence was, that instead of the harmony which used to prevail between the clergy and the people, there was almost a civil war.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not look to the sum, but to the principle of establishing one form of Christianity in India in preference to another. It was too late to discuss the clause, and, therefore, he would move, that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Wynn  said, if the arguments urged against this proposition were good for anything, they were good against, having any Church Establishment whatever. The natives of India had a plain interest in the maintenance of a Church establishment, for it would be prejudicial to them, that those who were to govern them should be without religious instruction. Was it desirable, that the young men who went out to India should be left to their own zeal for obtaining religious knowledge? There were not many Gentlemen who would say that religion had not an important and necessary operation upon morality. If so, could it be a matter of indifference to the natives of India that those who were to exercise rule over them should be without religion? An hon. Member said, that some of the chapels had only a congregation of forty or fifty; but was it desirable that the many stations, where there were not above forty or fifty Europeans, should be without the means of cherishing the principles of religion? With chaplains scattered over India, it was of great consequence that individuals should be appointed to superintend their conduct. But a Bishop was also necessary to consecrate churches, and to admit to holy orders. This last was an important point, and a number of native converts,—those by whose means the Christian religion might be most effectually spread in India,—had received ordination from the hands of the Bishops. He said also, that they were bound to supply the means of religious worship to those who went to rule in India. Why establish a Supreme Court? Because when you sent out Englishmen to India, accustomed to English law, it was desirable that they should have Judges to administer that law. Yet he had not heard any proposal made to tax Europeans for the payment of the Judges. Why, then, tax them for the maintenance of those who were to instruct them in the religious doctrines, in which they would have been instructed, had they remained in England? An hon. Member had spoken of the danger which might result from its being represented to the Sepoys, after a disastrous day, that their countrymen were taxed to maintain the religion of foreigners; but we might just as well talk of abandoning India, be-
 805
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would consent to proceed with the other clauses of the Bill, provided the House would agree to postpone the clause now before them.
 Mr. Pryme  objected to the adjournment. The Established Church had done considerable good in India, and it ought to be supported.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had not any pretensions to the eloquence of the noble Lord, but he had been listened to with some attention, which he attributed principally to his brevity. The noble Lord had ascribed this vexatious opposition, as he called it, to the Irish Members. He, therefore, thought it his duty to press his Motion. The discussion had been calm and temperate till the noble Lord introduced his own acrimony into it.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the debate had been calmly and temperately conducted until the two divisions were forced upon the House by the hon. and learned Member's friends. It was not surprising, that some acrimony should arise when, at a quarter-past eleven o'clock, the question of postponement was introduced. If the time of the House had been occupied in the fair discussion of the question,
 807
 Lord Granville Somerset  complained
 795
 Colonel Leith Hay  thought this purely a military question, and having nothing whatever to do with religious feelings. The question with him was not what the orders were, but whether they had been disobeyed or not. Upon that principle it was, that Captain Atchison had been tried, and judged not to be a fit person to remain any longer in his Majesty's service. He believed that Captain Atchison had acted from a mistaken conscientious view, but he could not think that exonerated him from performing duties which he was ordered to perform. As to the statement, that no officers of a different persuasion were required to act in Catholic religious ceremonies, he must state, that he recollected the Duke of Wellington assisting in those ceremonies in Salamanca.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  hoped the House would now see the necessity of adjourning the debate.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought the subject of too much importance to be proceeded with, and be therefore would support the Motion for adjournment.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought, that the harem and the zenanah would hardly escape violation by this clause. The strong feelings as to castes which prevailed amongst the Hindoos would make this a very difficult subject to deal with.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that the duties of the Bishop of India who was first appointed when the charter was last renewed, had been found far beyond the strength of the eminent men who had filled the see to execute them. It was proposed, therefore, without adding to the expense, to increase the number of dignified clergymen in India. At present the Bishop of Calcutta had 5,000 l l l l l
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that the clause had no reference to domestic slavery, but only to predial slavery.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that by this clause Europeans might go to any part of India. It was proposed, that all the territories possessed by the Company before 1800 should be open to Europeans without licence; but that, to the territories obtained since that period, Europeans should not be admissible, except upon licence from the local governments.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, he had an Amendment of some importance to propose to this clause. As it stood at present it contained positive enactments for the extinction of slavery; but as positive enactments on such a subject might cause considerable difficulty, in consequence of slavery in the East Indies depending in some degree on the distinction of castes, and the rights of families, he should propose "that the Governor-General in Council should be required forth with to frame laws and regulations for the extinction of slavery, due regard being paid to the laws of marriage, and the rights and authorities of fathers and heads of families, and to report such laws and regulations to the Court of Directors before the 1st of January, 1835, and every succeeding year; and that the Court of Directors should within fourteen days of their receipt lay them before Parliament."
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that power was given to the Governor-General, with the concurrence of the Court of Directors, to open any part of India, without restriction.
 Mr. Charles Grant  admitted the calmness of the discussion. If hon. Gentlemen were not inclined to proceed, he would not press the immediate consideration of the clause; but he put it to them again, whether they should not postpone their objections till the discussion upon the Report.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the money was on the point of distribution when the case was referred to the Lords of the Privy Council. If it were determined that they
 796
 Mr. Grote  supported the prayer of the Petition, It was necessary to pass the Bill during this Session, or otherwise the trade would be destroyed, and ruin fall upon the district in question. The petitioners sought nothing which would be injurious to the West Indians. He could have wished to see more conciliation on the part of the West-Indian body.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that no law could prevent the refining of the sugar produced by slaves; and the West Indians, therefore, were inflicting, by opposing this measure, an injury on a body of British subjects without obtaining any benefit for themselves.
 Mr. Sinclair  must take the liberty to protest against the doctrine of his hon. friend, that the religion of the Church of England was the religion of the empire. In England it was the religion of the law, and of a majority of the people; in Ireland it was the religion of the law; in Scotland, it was not the religion either of the law or of the people. In Scotland there was another establishment as efficient, though more poor; and if his hon. friend visited Scotland, he would find himself a dissenter there, and would attend the ministrations of a Bishop, who enjoyed
 802
 Mr. Aglionby  said, admitting that there might be a vexatious movement for an adjournment, there might also be a vexatious opposition to that adjournment. It was not with any motive of getting rid of the Bill that he had voted for the postponement. He objected, therefore, to the use of the words "vexatious opposition."
 Mr. Warburton  said, he thought his friends had adopted a proper course in moving the postponement of the clause, considering that they had proposed to allow the other clauses to be discussed, passing over this. If the two new twin Bishops were allowed to be appointed, the consequence would be, that in a short time a Message would be sent down, stating the inadequacy of their income, and they would be saddled gradually with further expenses,
 Mr. Warburton , in explanation, denied having attributed corrupt motives, but only irregularities to the parties adverted to by the hon. member for Essex.
 Mr. Warburton  took the opportunity of asking the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), in case it should appear that the Lords of the Privy Council have recommended to his Majesty to leave the whole question of the distribution of the Deccan Prize Money to the Lords of the Treasury, and that his Majesty has confirmed that recommendation, whether the noble Lord was prepared to state, on the part of the Lords
 794
 Mr. Warburton  said, that in fact the parties in question had not obtained a hearing, for the Lords of the Privy Council had decided that the distribution rested with the Lords of the Treasury. He had also to complain of various irregularities and improprieties, during the progress of the proceedings on this subject, on the part of the trustees of the Deccan prize money, the Duke of Wellington and Mr. Arbuthnot, as well as on the part of the Lords of the Treasury, particularly with reference to the fact that the minute of the Lords of the Treasury of 1825–6 was made upon a supposititious letter from the trustees to the Secretary of the Treasury, and also with respect to the alleged refusal of those parties to afford to the claimants the necessary materials for the collection of evidence in support of their claims; he should, therefore, move as an Amendment, for the production of a letter from the trustees to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated the 14th of September, 1825, for a letter dated the 22nd of, June, 1826, and for the Treasury minute made upon one of those letters.
 Mr. Buckingham  expressed his great regret that there should be any restraint at all in the admission of Europeans into any part of India.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that slavery in the East Indies was totally different from slavery in the West. Slavery existed in very different degrees in different parts of India. In Malabar it was in its worst form; in other parts of India the slaves were the members of the family. The natives generally had a very high idea of the sanctity of their harems; and if they were interfered with, it would unite all classes against our Government. The subject, therefore, could not be beneficial.
 Mr. Plumptre  was happy to see the unanimity of feeling on this subject, and trusting in that, he would not, in the absence of Ministers, give notice of any further Motion. But if the expression of the opinion of the House had no effect in the proper quarter, he should feel it his duty again to bring the subject before the House.
 Mr. Plumptre  presented a petition from Thomas Atchison, formerly a captain in the artillery, stating that he had entered the Royal Artillery in 1804, and discharged his duty with an unblemished character; that he was discharging his military duties at Malta, in 1823, when he received, through the military authorities, a requisition of the Roman Catholic Church to toll a bell and fire from  patteraroes 784
 Mr. Wilks  admitted, that the illustrious men who had, in India, successively occupied the situation of Bishop, had been distinguished for their zeal and their piety. But being-desirous to see the triumph of Christian principles in that country, he wished no Church establishment there. In an empire containing 100,000,000 of people, there were not above 40,000 individuals belonging to the Church of England. Could it be necessary to appoint three Bishops for them? They ought not to forget, that the great object of promoting the progress of Christianity had not been accomplished either by the chaplains or by the Bishops who had been sent out. The establishment of a Bishop in Canada, instead of promoting christianity, placed at hazard our dominion over that colony; whilst the Bishops who had been sent to the West Indies, had increased the irritation which before existed there. The progress of Christianity in India was owing, not to the Bishops, but to the missionaries sent out by the Missionary and other societies in England. It was the missionary labours in India which had exalted the character of our religion in that part of the world. It was Dr. Morrison to whom we were indebted for our best information on the subject of the language of China? It was to Dr. Carey that we were indebted for the translation of the Scriptures into the Indian tongue; and it was to Dr. Marsland, in conjunction with Dr. Carey, supported by the voluntary contributions of pious people in this country, that we were indebted for the firm root Christianity had begun to take in Bengal? Let the Episcopalians do the same, and let them be put upon the same footing as other Christian sects in India.
 Mr. Hume  then moved, that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Hume  differed from the hon. Gentleman, and moved an Amendment which
 798
 Mr. Hume  said, it would probably be better to leave the Church Establishment as it stood for the present, in case any wish to change it should produce a stronger opposition than was expected. At any rate it would be better to postpone the clause.
 Mr. Hume  would not trust to the Court of Directors.
 Mr. Hume  said, that such an enactment would exclude Europeans from two thirds of India.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, the Sugar Refining Act contained a clause which gave vast fortunes to a few individuals at the expense of the Revenue. It was impossible for the English colonists to compete with the labourers of Brazil and Cuba. It would cause ruin to our colonies, should a Bill be passed to allow the sugar of those foreign colonies to be refined here, with all the advantages of British capital.
 Mr. Methuen  explained, that the ab-
 791
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that the question now before them was, whether they should report progress, a point which seemed to be lost sight of. Mr. Lushington had asserted, that the extension of the episcopal establishment would not be beneficial to India.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  approved of the clause, because he thought it would be dangerous at present to allow the free intercourse of Europeans with the nations of the upper part of India.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  regretted that the clause had been introduced, for it would be likely to throw the whole country into a flame. It ought to be specifically stated how far the clause was to extend, for if it were to throw open the harems of the Mahommedans and the zenanahs of the natives to the inspection of the Company's officers, it would lead to the most disastrous consequences. He disapproved of any legislation as to slavery in the East, for it was a wanton meddling with the prejudices of the natives.
 Mr. Robert Grant  opposed the Motion. He contended, that the establishment of chapels was occasioned by the fact stated by Mr. Burke, that the great majority of the Christians in India were really unbaptised. The natives had thus an opportunity of saying, "How is it that you have no means of extending the benefits of your religion to your countrymen? We have our pagodas
 803
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, the restrictions had been imposed from the fear of injury to the natives themselves; but he hoped, by the cautious experiment now about to be made, that they would be able gradually to adopt such measures as would safely allow them to do away with all limitation whatever.
 Dr. Lushington  bore his testimony to the correctness of the statements of his hon. Colleague. He was satisfied that the Government and the House would find it necessary to concede the prayer of the
 793 l
 Mr. Fowel Buxton  could not consent to the doctrine that the Legislature might not put an end to slavery in the British dominions wherever it might exist. He placed confidence in the discretion of the Board of Control, knowing that his right hon. friends connected with it, were averse from slavery, and, he trusted, that the time was not far distant, when the name of slave should be unknown in the British Empire.
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that there was no danger whatever of interfering with the domestic rights of the people, as they were expressly reserved from infraction, by those words of the clause, which related to parental and other rights. It was undoubtedly desirable to get rid of predial slavery, and certainly the safest way to accomplish it, was to leave it to the Governor General to make laws for its gradual abolition.
 Mr. Macaulay  was not an advocate for episcopacy; but he supposed the expense was the evil. [" No No l l 801 l
 Mr. Macaulay  said, that these new provinces could not be opened to Europeans, except with considerable danger.
 Mr. Spring Rice  rose to explain as to the charges made by his hon. friend (Mr. Warburton) against the Treasury Board of the time in question. Information of every kind was given to all claimants on one side, until the matter came by a Motion before this House, when it was considered best, that all the documents which had been supplied by the one side should be given to the other. With respect to the specific letters alluded to by his hon. friend, the fact was, that the one he had mentioned as being that in place of which the supposititious letter was put for ward was not known of by the Treasury until it came in a printed form before the Privy Council, and whether or not there really were two letters would be seen when the matters came before the House. He thought it very doubtful whether there would be found to be any second letter in place of which the alleged supposititious one was stated to have been put forward; and although he was most anxious for a full investigation, yet he trusted there would be no more unnecessary delay, when it would be recollected that petitions were daily being presented against it.
 Mr. W. Brougham  said, that all that his hon. friend, the member for Bridport, wished was, that in the event of the case coming again before the Lords of the Treasury they would hold their hands until they had heard the parties interested. He (Mr. W. Brougham) had seen so much of the case, that he was greatly alarmed at the idea of the distribution of the money without hearing the parties. He hoped his noble friend would be induced to say, that he would do his best to prevent the distribution until the parties has been heard. That would not amount to a pledge on the part of his noble friend to procure them a hearing.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that any Minister who should continue to impose such fetters on our commerce as were here complained of would deserve impeachment.
 Mr. Finn  said, that no power on earth should dictate what his religious sentiments should be, and he could not but admire the man who firmly expressed his determination not to act against his religious scruples.
 Mr. Gillon  said, anomalous as the state of the Church Establishment was in Ireland, the condition of things proposed to be set up in India was ten times more absurd. If the House agreed to that, of what use would it be for the hon. and learned member for Dublin to complain of the Catholics of Ireland having to pay for Protestant Bishops, when the Treasury Bench would be able to say, "why, look at India; there 100,000,000 of Mohammedans and Pagans are supporting the Protestant establishment of 40,000 Englishmen." He looked upon the pro-
 804
 Sir Charles Burrell  thought, that every thing had been stated which was consistent with humanity and truth. He was satisfied this individual never did refuse—that, on the contrary, he only remonstrated, and that too in a respectful and proper manner. Under all the circumstances of the case, he felt it was consistent with justice and the duty of Parliament, to give this petition the greatest possible attention.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull did not admit the justice of the excuse which had been made for the absence of the Judge Advocate, as his hon. friend would have brought forward the petition on some other day. He entirely and fully accquiesced in what had been said on the subject of Captain Atchison, supposing that the Court-martial could have come to no other decision. There was a higher tribunal, which ought to have reviewed the sentence with great consideration. Sir Robert Wilson, who was, perhaps, necessarily punished, was not for ever excluded from the honours of his profession. He thought the House was bound to follow up the case till justice was obtained, and he trusted that the unanimous feelings of the House would be sufficient, without further proceedings, to procure justice to Captain Atchison.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he considered the subject before the House as of great importance; his noble friend had, however, advanced one proposition which he (Sir Robert Inglis) must be permitted to qualify. His noble friend (Lord Darlington) had said that it was the duty of a military man to obey every command of his military superior. The necessary qualification was, that it should be a lawful and a military command: not one unlawful in itself, or unmilitary in respect to the parties. It was true that discipline must be preserved; and it was highly inexpedient to make a practice of bringing military grievances before that House, principally because it would tend to take the command of the army from the Crown, where the Constitution placed it, but in some degree also because, if the business of every department gravitated to that House, Members would have no time for the discharge of their peculiar and exclusive duties. This was, however, a
 787
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that the greatest care should be had in dealing with this matter. We were by a solemn engagement bound to observe all the rights of masters of families, whether preserved by the Gentoo or Mahommedan laws, in Malabar the soil was almost exclusively cultivated by slaves, they were considered to be complete properly, and if they were to be emancipated, some compensation would be required. It should also be remembered, that the slaves of India were people of particular castes while the slaves of the West Indies were brought within the memory of man from a distant country. In India too there was a variety of methods by which a man might be reduced to slavery, and all these matters would require to be taken into consideration, for a thoughtless proceeding on this point affronting the prejudices of the people might cost us our empire in India.
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped the hon. Member would not persevere in the Motion, and said, he considered the provision for the Establishment insufficient; but he would support it, as he thought he was not likely to get anything better.
 Mr. Clay  presented a Petition from the Tradesmen and others interested in the trade of Sugar Refining, in the Tower Hamlets. It was signed by 19,000 persons. The hon. Member read the petition at length. It stated:—'That the water side district of the Tower Hamlets is entirely dependent on commerce, and more especially on the numerous estab-
 792 l l
 Lord Althorp  remarked, that the hon. Member appeared to assume what was the decision of the Privy Council; but he (Lord Althorp) did not believe, that that decision was yet known. The hon. Member had then asked what his decision would be in case a certain decision had been come to by the Privy Council. He could not pretend to say, what his decision would be about what was not yet officially before him, for he did not happen to have been present at the Privy Council. He should, however, be the vainest of men if he thought that his decision could be of any weight after that of a Privy Council at which the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and the Vice-Chancellor had assisted. It was quite impossible for him to pledge himself with regard to the course which he should pursue.
 Lord Althorp  must persevere in declining to give any pledge upon a subject, on the law or merits of which he was at present ignorant.
 Lord Sandon  objected to the postponement of the debate, the wish for which he ascribed to the desertion and inattention of the gallery. He thought it unfair to proceed by a succession of vexatious motions for adjournment. He might have hoped that the Opposition would not follow the example of the Tories on the Reform Bill. They had begun their attacks at a quarter past eleven.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, they had all recently had reason to complain of the manner ill which reports had been given in that House. With regard to the proceedings of the last ten days, it was anything but reporting, it was misrepresenting. Evident proofs of ignorance and incompetency had been given. This had been the ease with respect to the reports of his own speeches. He understood, that the proprietors of newspapers had recently reduced the salaries of the reporters from six guineas a week to two guineas, which sufficiently accounted for the inaccuracy of the reporting, as persons of respectability could not be obtained. It was necessary, therefore, that the public should be cautioned against taking the statements of persons who were under no responsibility for the genuine sentiments of Members of that House. He had himself been most egregiously misrepresented. He wished it to be understood, that Members of that House were not bound by the reports which appeared in the public papers. He had found many who had complained of this, but they seemed afraid to notice it. He was not afraid; and he felt it his duty to notice these misrepresentations.
 Mr. Baring  said, he agreed that an inquiry on this subject was absolutely necessary, and he hoped that the Commission on the subject of the Royal Burghs would extend their inquiries to Westminster.
 Mr. Mark Philips  rose to contradict the statements of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, relative to the reporters' salaries.
 Mr. Strickland  said, the real question before the House was, whether or not protection should be confined to persons under thirteen years of age. He knew a case of a young man whose thigh bone
 899
 Mr. Duncombe  said, the question had been asked whether, in the event of the Ten-hour Bill being passed, the operatives were ready to submit to a fall of wages? and he had been expressly informed by then that they would, rather than sec their children exposed to such hardships as they were now compelled to submit to. An hon. Baronet had stated, in the course of the debate, that paid agitators had been sent throughout the country to excite a feeling in favour of the Bill. He positively denied that, cither in Lancashire or Yorkshire, there had been anything like paid agitation. He implored the House to pass the Bill, and thus make some claim to the respect and confidence of the people. He had no hesitation in saying, as the result of a good deal of observation, that that House—that boasted Reformed House—had not much of popularity lo spare. He would entreat, without urging them to pander to clamour or surrender their own judgments, to take that opportunity of reconciling themselves with the people, by meriting their confidence and respect.
 Colone Torrens  considered the present question as the most delicate and important which had hitherto been brought under the consideration of the Reformed Parliament. It should be discussed calmly and dispassionately, and without any personal feeling, or party bias, or partial view. The interests of the masters and operatives, when truly considered, would be seen to be one and the same, and neither could derive any permanent advantage from the injury of the other. It was the interest of the labourer that the profits of the master should be ample and sufficient; for, unless profits were adequate, increased capital could not be accumulated, and without the increased accumulation and employment of capital, the increase of population could not be employed, the demand for labour would be less than the supply, and thus a permanent fall of wages would result from a fall of profits. On the other hand, it was the obvious interest of the master that his workmen should be supplied with all the necessaries required to preserve them in vigorous working condition. And further, it was the interest of masters, that the operatives should not only have their physical wants provided for, but that they should have sufficient leisure for intellectual and moral improvement; for, if destitute of this, the operatives could not perceive and feel that it was at once their interest and their duty to maintain that peace and order without which the pursuits of industry could not be carried on, or the labouring classes be adequately employed. It was obvious, it was self evident, that the interests, the permanent interests, of master and operative were inseparably connected, were one and the same; and therefore he conceived it would be practicable for the House to legislate ill a manner satisfactory to both. With respect to the two propositions now before the House—that of the noble Lord (Ashley), and that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he (Colonel Torrens) decidedly preferred the former. By the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the labour of children under nine years would be limited to eight hours; the labour of young persons under eighteen would be limited to twelve hours; while those above eighteen would have no protection whatever. Now, those who supported the Amendment, admitted that it was a bad measure, and advocated it only because they felt that some legislative
 901 902
 The Atlorney General  fully admitted the necessity of some legislation in favour of the children employed in the manufactories, and he congratulated the noble Lord on his success. With respect to the clause immediately before the House, he had merely to observe that, if his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had not proposed the Amendment, and it had been proposed by any one else, he should have given it his support. He agreed that, from the age of nine to seventeen or eighteen years, children ought to be protected, but he objected to children between nine and fourteen being obliged to labour for an equal period with children between fourteen and eighteen. He should therefore support the Amendment of his noble friend.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, there was no doubt in any quarter with respect to the necessity of legislation for the regulation of infant labour; and the only question which remained was, whether the Bill of the noble Lord, as it originally stood, or the Amendment of his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be the more advantageous to the parties interested. His principal objection to the original Bill was founded upon the admission of the noble Lord (Ashley) that his object was to regulate manufacturing labour. If the proposition of the noble Lord (Ashley) should be successful, he should entertain the greatest apprehension respecting the consequences. He was willing to admit the propriety of legislative interference up to a certain point, but he was of opinion that any attempt to proceed beyond that point would be productive of the greatest mischief. He maintained, that gross exaggeration had taken place with regard to the effects of the present factory system; and he concluded by declaring, that he would give his support to the Amendment proposed by his noble friend (Lord Althorp).
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  said, that he would embrace that opportunity of stating his general opinion on that very important Bill. But first, he would state, that his reason, and he believed that of many other hon. Members, for voting in favour of the appointment of a Commission, was not grounded on a desire for delay, but arose from an anxiety to have the fullest information before the House. And here he would give the noble Lord, with whom the Bill originated, the greatest credit for the patience he had shown. In order to bring the grounds of his opinion before the House, it would be necessary for him to refer to the Report of the Central Board of Commissioners, which contained a recommendation respecting the regulation of the young people and children, which was fraught with mischief, and, he thought, impracticable. The recommendation was, that children from ten to fourteen years of age should be employed eight hours, and those above that age ten hours. If this were to be determined on, it would be found, that the adults would be unable to
 884 885
 Lord Althorp  said, the question then for the decision of the Committee was, whether that number of hours, and the age of young persons as it stood in the clause were proper. The first point to which he should call the attention of the Committee was, whether it was desirable to consider young persons of eighteen years of age in the light of children, and requiring legal protection. He did not propose in any way to interfere with the protection given to young persons by Sir John Hobhouse's Bill. So far from that being his object, he would at once consent to its provisions being extended to other mills than cotton mills. He confessed he did look at the Bill then in Committee with very considerable apprehension. It might be attended with extreme danger to the manufacturing interests of the country, and of course, if it had any tendency to hurt that interest, it would take away the very bread of the people for whose benefit the Bill was intended, by depriving them of the demand for their labour. Now, it was clear, that if such an event were to happen, the consequences would be most alarming, for the effect must be, that great masses of people would suffer from famine; and who could contemplate such a state of things without great apprehension? If the masses of population who were congregated in our large towns were thrown out of employment, and threatened with starvation, dangers the most alarming and most fatal would arise to the whole community. The question, then, was, whether the limitations of hours proposed in the Bill would not have such an effect, or have a tendency to produce such a calamity. He thought it was quite clear, that if they prevented all persons under eighteen years of age from working longer than ten hours a day, the effect would be to prevent the manufacturers from working their mills longer than that
 886 887 888
 Lord Ashley : If the noble Lord was unwilling to take upon himself the responsibility of the measure, he (Lord Ashley) was quite willing to take all responsibility on himself to the extent of his proposition; and should always rejoice at having brought forward this Bill. He was much astonished to hear the evidence referred to as not affording allegations of the evils arising from the present mode of employing the children. Had the noble Lord read the evidence of Dr. Loudon? [Lord  Althorp 889 890 891 Hear, hear No, no," from Lord Althorp No, no," and a cry of It is only a choice of evils
 Sir George Phillips  had been engaged in the manufacturing business; he had lived all his life in a manufacturing district; and he frankly confessed he could not speak on the subject with all the confidence of the noble Lord (Ashley). It was generally known, that confidence was in proportion to want of knowledge; and if the noble Lord were aware of the danger, he would be the last man to propose such a Bill. He saw, from certain Returns laid on the Table of the House, that the declared value of one of our exports was 36,000,000 l l l 892 l l l l 893 Name 894
 Mr. Brotherton  wished such a measure to be adopted as would benefit all parties. He was not one of those who wished secretly to impose restrictions on adult labour; he had openly avowed his desire to limit the labour of all persons below the age of twenty-fine. He had never joined in the cry against the masters; he had attack-ed the system, desiring to benefit all parties. He must say, that ten hours were sufficient; but there were many considerations which affected him, and he wished to extend the hours to eleven, in the hope of embracing a larger class by the restriction. There were other considerations, as he before said; he, for example, had always voted for the abolition of the Corn-laws, and for the reduction of the burthens of the conutry, because they were connected with the necessity for severe labour. It was not a question of pounds, shillings, and pence, but a question of morality, of
 895 l l
 Mr. George Wood  thought it was necessary to look to the general welfare, and not to be guided by any popular cry. It was necessary, however, to be quite sure that they should be able to make their legislation effective, before they made laws. They had proved that the present law was not effective, and he would have the House be quite sure that it could reduce all labour to twelve hours, as his hon. friend wished to have a Bill limiting the labour to eleven hours. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Ashley) that it was a measure to be considered only in its details; there fore all its details should be examined. The
 896
 Lord Ashley  interrupted the hon. Member, and read Mr. Ashton's evidence to show, that he declared that two sets of hands would be a more mischievous plan; for it would expose the adults to work eighteen hours.
 Mr. George Wood  concurred in the opinion of the evil; but what was the remedy? Why, the existing law. If the law prohibited mills from working more than twelve hours, how could adults be worked in them sixteen hours? The hon. Member also quoted Mr. Ashton's opinion to show, that he saw no objection to employing two sets of hands. The hon. Member advocated the proposed plan of two sets of children, employing them eight hours a day. That would make a reduction of fifty per cent only in their wages, not 100 per cent. Dr. Hawkins, whose evidence had been relied on, proved too much. He said that ten hours were enough for all classes to work; but it was proved that, unless some of the population worked more hours than that, the deterioration of the whole must be the result. If the noble Lord could see the consequences of his measure, he would not urge it forward. Either the Bill would be inoperative, or it would cut down wages and the produce of our factories. With respect to cotton alone—with which he was best acquainted—if the production were cut down one-sixth part, the wages of the labourer would be lessened one-sixth. The sum sunk in building and machinery for the cotton manufacture, was equal to the whole amount of wages. The reduction of production would add the sixth, then, to the charge of the capitalist, on account of his machinery; and he saw not how that could be met, except by a further reduction of wages, and, therefore, he believed that the reducing the hours of labour one-sixth, would, in fact, reduce the wages of the labourer one-third. It was impossible,
 897
 Colonel Evans  said, that he had seen a long paragraph in a newspaper, asserting that Sir Francis Burdett and Sir J. C. Hobhouse had been kept in their places by an undercurrent of bribery and corruption. He should be the last person to countenance the insertion of such a paragraph. His hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, had been supposed to have sanctioned the opinion of Westminster bribery. His hon. friend had referred to transactions forty years ago. With regard to himself, he was sure, that no more remarkable instance had ever been given of disinterested support than he had met with in Westminster. He concluded by moving for a return relative to the municipal government of the city of Westminster, and the duchy of Lancaster, with the nature of the powers of the vestries in controlling the expenditure of parishes, and the number of civil officers in the nomination of the Deans and Chapters, with an account of any pecuniary advantages arising from such offices.
 Mr. Mark Philips  had given the subject the greatest consideration, but he was bound to say that the measure of the noble Lord (Ashley) was so surrounded with perplexity and confusion that he could not conscientiously give it his support. A great stress had been laid upon the cruelty exercised in the factories toward the children. He admitted that individual cases might exist; but wherever they were to be found, he contended they existed without the know-
 912
 Lord Ashley  said, having taken up the subject fairly and conscientiously, he found that the noble Lord had completely defeated him. He should, therefore surrender the Bill into the hands of the noble Lord; but having taken it up with a view to do good to the classes interested, he would only say into whatever hands it might pass, God prosper it.
 Mr. Sanford  supported the Amendment of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though he confessed his preference for some plan which would limit the period of labour to eleven hours. On the whole, he thought it would be better to limit infant rather than adult labour.
 Mr. Wilbraham  supported the Amendment proposed by Lord Althorp. He objected to the original Bill, not only because it allowed too many hours for labour, but also because it made no difference between the different branches of manufacture, for it was a fact that a smaller quantity of labour in one branch was equal to a larger one in another.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the Commission, appointed at the suggestion of the House, was a Commission for inquiring into the slate of the Corporations of England, Ireland, and Wales, and could take no notice of Westminster, as there was no Corporation there.
 Mr. Hardy  was pleased with the manner in which his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down had treated the subject. The proposition was not complex; it was simple, and required no eloquence to set it forth. It would be safest for the House to rely upon the evidence obtained by the Commission. In particular he alluded to the medical evidence. It had long been the opinion of all who were placed in the neighbourhood of the manufacturing districts, that it was neces-
 906
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had supported a petition from an elector of Westminster which asserted, that the principal method of bribery in Westminster, had been the paying the rates for electors; and he had founded upon that petition an argument against making the payment of rates a necessary qualification for becoming an elector.
 Mr. Hume  suggested whether it would not be better, after such a lengthy and useful discussion, they should now report progress, and ask leave to bring in a Bill which should give a full and substantial effect to Sir John Hobhouse's. If this was not agreed to, he should vote for the adoption of the lesser evil—the Amendment of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Pease  said, after the best consideration he could give to the question, he felt it his duty to vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord. It relieved him greatly to find, that the principle of Sir John Hobhouse's Bill was to be applied to all our manufacturing establishments, for he felt no hesitation in saying, that if it had been done some time since, the present
 907
 Mr. Fryer  was of opinion, that something ought to be done for the relief of the children employed in factories. But legislative enactments, merely limiting the hours of labour, would furnish no remedy for the evil. It was the direct necessity which compelled these children to undergo such excessive labour. The only means, in his opinion, of doing away with that necessity, was by opening a free trade in corn, and in taking the monopoly of food from the great landed proprietors. It was totally impossible that things should continue in their present condition; and the probability was, that the change would be anew election either in that House or out of doors. It would depend entirely upon the House itself whether that revolution should be a peaceable one, or whether it should be accompanied with every species of bloodshed and violence. It might, perhaps, be imagined that the people were inclined to engage in a sanguinary revolution; but he was confident that the good sense of the English people would declare in favour of a peaceable revolution. In the first place a revolution would have the effect of wiping away the National Debt. The House might laugh if they pleased; but did they suppose that the people did not contemplate such a result? The Church Establishment and the tithe system, would also, in all probability, be wiped away. He did not mean to say, that the people were hostile to religion itself. On the contrary, he was sure they loved it. In the next place, the whole nest of sinecurists would be ferreted out and destroyed, as well as all the abominable monopolies of sugar and corn. Did the House consider how the country was circumstanced? If it should happen that in a winter of distress and poverty, a few bold men should incite their comrades to resist the military and be successful in that resistance (an event which was by no means improbable), in an hour after the event was known all England would be in arms. What would then be the condition of the Members of that House? And what would become of the
 905 l l
 Mr. Richard Potter  said, he would detain the Committee but for a few minutes. The hon. member for the Northern Division of Yorkshire said, he was not aware of any attempt to agitate. When this subject was before the House a fortnight ago, he (Mr. Potter) gave the House a pretty fair example of the kind of efforts
 903 904
 Mr. Gisborne  said, he was afraid of meddling with such a complicated subject, not being so confident in his own opinion as the noble Lord, the member for Dorsetshire, and he would support the proposition of the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer as the least interfering of the two.
 Mr. Bolling  said: It is with a bad grace that the hon. member for Yorkshire now comes forward to reproach the cotton-manufacturers with cruelty, after Members of this House have so long neglected their duty by forbearing to enforce the law which would have protected the children whose fate they now lament. I will not deign to answer the attack which has been made upon myself, for, although a stranger in this House, my character, I trust, is too well known in my own neighbourhood to need a formal justification on my part. I have always endeavoured to act from some good reason, and now that I have come into the great council of the nation, I shall not for the first time stultify myself by voting without a good reason. I consider that when attacked I have a right to defend myself, and when, therefore, I hear it asserted over and over again that all the evidence proves the oppression, cruelty, and inhumanity of the factory system, I say, and I will prove it, that such is not the fact. If Sir John Hob-house's Bill had only been properly carried into execution—if those who are now so ready to make puffing humanity speeches had been in their respective neighbourhoods, seeing that those masters who were inclined to evade the law, and take advantage of the conscientious scruples of those who obeyed it were punished,—the evils now complained of would never have arisen. It has been said, over and over again, by the noble Lord, the member for Dorsetshire, that the factory system is fraught with mischief to the health, the morals, and the general good conduct of the factory children. The noble Lord, it seems, relies almost wholly upon the evidence of the doctors, whom, as I do not know, I shall speak of as I find them in his book. In opposition to their evidence I beg to place that of persons from the town I have the honour to represent; for it behoves me, in vindicating the factory system, not to lose sight of the good name I wish to maintain in my own town, and
 908 909 l 910 s s 911
 Mr. Cobbett  said, a new discovery had been made in the House that night, which would doubtless, excite great astonishment in many parts; at all events it would in Lancashire. It had formerly been said that the Navy was the great support of England; at another time, that our maritime commerce was the great bulwark of the country; at another time that our colonies; and it had even been whispered that the Bank was; but now it was admitted, that our great stay and bulwark was to be found in three hundred thousand little girls, or rather in one-eighth of that number. Yes; for it was asserted, that if these little girls worked two hours less per day, our manufacturing superiority would depart from us. This was the only observation he should then make; at another, and more appropriate opportunity, he should go fully into the question.
 The Speaker  observed, that the remuneration of reporters was a private consideration, and related to a question which involved a breach of privilege.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he would not enter into the facts. He was quite sure, when he read that paragraph, that it was founded on mis-statements. He never knew an instance of bribery in Westminster.
 Lord Althorp  said, the real question was, whether the words "eighteen years" should be inserted in the clause. He should oppose that proposition; and the point to decide would then be, what age should be inserted. He could not but observe on the strong good sense—the manly
 913
 Lord Althorp  said, that there could be no doubt about the motives of the noble Lord. The course which the noble Lord had pursued was dictated by the most honourable and praiseworthy feelings. He thought the best course now was to report progress, and ask leave to sit again. His own Amendment had had no object but the advantages of the children.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, this was a most important part of the Bill, for it recognised what he thought was a separate Christian establishment. This was a subject on which he felt warmly, under which the whole people of Ireland were deeply interested. He must therefore trespass on the Committee while he stated his views. The hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Inglis) had given the name to it of a dominant church in India. Not a word was in the Bill, and not a word had been said by any member of the Government about a dominant Church; but as the hon. member for the University of
 1020 1021
 Mr. Wynn  remembered with feelings of pleasure the disposition manifested by the Government and the East-India Company, when he was in office, to afford every facility to the promulgation of Christianity in India, without regard to what particular sect the various parties engaged in its dissemination might belong. At the same time, he remembered, that complaints were made of the inconvenience arising from the Catholic soldiers not being able to communicate with the priests in their own language; and an inquiry was making at the period when he left the Board, for persons in Ireland and England, to undertake the mission of Roman Catholic priests in India. He trusted that they were themselves but a sect, and would participate in the feeling expressed by his lamented friend. Bishop Heber, who said it was his highest pride to be considered as placed at the head of the Christian Church in India, in order to co-operate with the members of every different sect and persuasion. He declared, in one of his letters, that one of the most satisfactory days he had passed, was when he administered ordination to a native. On that day he entertained, together, the heads of the Catholic, Presbyterian, and Arminian religions in India, who met to participate in the common feeling of satisfaction at seeing that rite of ordination administered to a native. The Bishop was the head of the Episcopal Church, and his peculiar function was, to superintend those congregations which were in community with that Church. The missionaries were not
 1023
 Mr. O'Connell  had been asked a question. In answer, he had to say, that the answer of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Charles Grant) was most satisfactory to him. Though the promise was not an official one, he had every confidence in it, when he thought of the man from whom it fell; a man, whose whole life showed, that it was impossible for him to be insincere.
 Mr. O'Connell , seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, in his place, begged to know whether he had any objection to lay before the House copies of the correspondence that took place between the Irish Government and certain Magistrates of Enniskillen, in reference to the celebration of the 12th of July? It appeared, at least, from the newspapers, that those Magistrates were involved in the preparatory steps taken for the celebration of that anniversary. It was therefore necessary that the House should be aware of what the conduct of those Magistrates really was. Blood had been shed—and he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether the Roman Catholics were involved in the transaction. No difference existed now, in the eye of the law, between Roman Catholics and Protestants; and if the former misconducted themselves, they ought to be punished with the utmost rigour.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  supported the clause. It did little more than make an alteration in the title of two clergymen, without increasing the salary of the additional Bishops.
 Mr. Ruthven  opposed the clause, at some length, and said, that it would be more fair if all denominations were placed on the same footing. He objected strongly to introducing a Church Establishment into India when this country was groaning under the weight of a Church Establishment.
 Colonel Evans  did not exactly understand the logic of the hon. Member, who argued that he should not have voted for the Establishment of Episcopacy in India, but as there was already one Bishop, he
 1033
 Mr. Wynn  thought it adviseable to adjourn this clause, and to leave it open to discussion next Session, or else to refer it to a Select Committee up stairs.
 Mr. Wynn  defended his proposition of referring the clause to a Select Committee. The details of the subject required much consideration. He doubted the advantages of the College and of its different professions. The students could not be controlled or restrained at Hailey bury, because they could not be kept wholly out of the town, and over that the principles of the College had no jurisdiction. If the President of the Board of Control were determined to persevere in the system of competition for writer ships in India, he should recommend him to assign two to the University of Oxford, two to that of Cambridge, two to that of Dublin, two to the University of London, and four to the Scotch Universities, in rotation, as the vacancies occurred.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to state his objection to the Bill. There were two Judges of the Court; one the Sheriff, the other the Sheriff Depute; one having a moderate salary and doing a great deal of duty, the other having a high salary, and doing little or no duty. The Bill departed also from the sound principle, that Judges should be paid by the Exchequer, and not by fees. By one of the provisions of the Bill, twenty-five per cent was taken from the Sheriffs' clerks as part of the fees in question. He was against all high salaries; and if a proposition were made to reduce such salaries as those of the Lords of the Treasury, it should have his unqualified support. But the clerks in question had, in the first place, been appointed for life, and had, in the second place, purchased their situations. They had also, in many cases, been obliged to allow retiring salaries to their predecessors. Another principle of the Bill was, in effect, taking twenty-five per cent from litigants in one part of the country for the benefit of litigants in other parts. He should therefore conclude by moving, as an Amendment, that the three clauses referring to these points should be omitted.
 The Speaker : The Amendment cannot be moved till the Bill has been read a third time.
 Mr. Thomas Kennedy  said, that the emoluments of the Sheriffs' clerks had considerably increased since the local jurisdiction was given to the Sheriffs. This was first done in 1826, and subsequently confirmed in 1830; he could not, therefore, see any reason why the emoluments of the Sheriffs' clerks should not be curtailed if Parliament thought proper. Their emoluments depended entirely upon the Statutes passed, which no one could deny the competency of the Parliament to alter or repeal. The Sheriffs were called on to discharge extra duties; and as they were not now overpaid, it was of course necessary that they should be remunerated. The extra business which would flow from this Bill would more than repay the deficiency occasioned by taxing their incomes twenty-five per cent. That taxation, be it remembered, only applying to that portion of their incomes which springs from the Local Courts' jurisdiction. Thus, in his own county, the Sheriff's clerk had an Income of 900 l l l
 Captain Gordon  thought it most advisable that the hon. and learned Gentleman should postpone his Bill till the Commission now sitting to inquire into this subject should make their report. He would not support the Amendment, neither could he agree to the proposal for taking away twenty-five per cent from the salaries of the clerks of the Courts.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that if the Sheriffs clerks were overpaid, the bettor plan would be to reduce the fees, and then the public would gain the advantage.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  approved of the principle of the Bill, but thought sonic of the details very objectionable. In Inverness-shire and Ross-shire he knew it would operate injuriously. The reduction of emoluments of the Sheriffs' clerks would in many cases, prevent respectable and intelligent gentlemen from undertaking such situations.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the fees of the Sheriffs' Court were already
 1039 d
 Mr. Murray  defended the Bill. The emoluments of the Sheriffs' clerks were raised very high by the local jurisdiction, and he saw no reason why they should not contribute towards the expense of the system from which they derived so much advantage. As their fees were small, it was better to apply a certain portion of them for the public benefit than to reduce them.
 Sir John Hay  inquired whether the per centage were to be taken solely on the additional fees derived from this Bill? He thought the Bill should be deferred till the Commissioners, one of whom was a Sheriff, had made their report.
 Mr. Thomas Kennedy  said, that the per centage would be taken only on the emoluments derived from the local jurisdiction. As to the Commission, the Local Court system was known to be so highly advantageous, that the better plan would be to pass this measure, and give the Commissioners an opportunity of judging of the manner in which the Bill worked. The hon. member for Ross-shire had been made the victim of a clamour raised by the Sheriffs' clerks, by no means creditable to them. Amongst others who had sent letters of complaint, as though he were an injured man, was a gentleman residing in Edinburgh, and who derived an income of 1,000 l
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that if a Presbytery could be formed in India, it would be better than to appeal to the Presbytery in Scotland.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the right hon.
 1030 1031
 Colonel Hay  observed, that if the hon. Member really wished for the admission to India of all classes of Dissenters from the Church of England, the way to obtain the object was surely not to object to the admission of one class.
 Colonel Leith Hay  then proposed a clause, to the effect "That it be enacted, that of the established chaplains at each Presidency in India, two shall always be ministers of the Church of Scotland, and shall enjoy such salaries as are paid at the time to military Chaplains, provided always, the ministers of the Church of Scotland, so appointed and paid, shall have been ordained and inducted by the Presbytery of Edinburgh, according to the forms of the Church of Scotland; and that they shall be under the Ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Presbytery of Edinburgh, with an appeal to the Provincial Synods of East Lothian and Tweedale, and the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland."
 Mr. O'Dwyer  cautioned the House against taking the gallant Colonel as a fair specimen of the Orangemen of Ireland. If they at all resembled him, the atrocious murders which had recently been perpetrated never would have been committed. The speech of the right hon. Secretary would do more to pacify Ireland than fifty Coercion Bills.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  opposed the clause, and said, that he could see no necessity for increasing the Episcopal Establishment in India. It would be moreover a precedent to extend the Church Establishment all over the British territory.
 Mr. Charles Buller  would join his hon. friend in opposing these clauses, as it was most iniquitous to tax the Hindoos to support the Church of England.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  maintained, that the first duty of a State was to support religion; and the best way to support religion was by endowing an Established Church. He hoped, that the Government would persevere in these clauses, and show the party of the Movement, which he considered a small minority, that everything was not to be sacrificed to them. He was not surprised at the opposition of the hon. member for Middlesex, because he had long ago heard that hon. Member say, "It was better to reign in hell than serve in heaven." As a member of the Church of Scotland, he saw in the Bill a great boon in favour of that Church.
 Mr. Charles Grant  objected to delay. The clause involved no principle which required such postponement. Far more important clauses had already been decided by the Committee. The present mode of appointing candidates to civil offices in India, involved the principle of competition, and it was much more advantageous that the appointments to those offices should be open to competition than the subjects of patronage.
 Mr. Grant  had already stated, that he did not.
 Mr. Charles Grant  complimented the hon. and learned Member on the tone and temper in which he had introduced the subject. The ground upon which the alteration had been founded was the necessity for increased means of religious consolation. At present there were but one Bishop and three Archdeacons; it was proposed to increase the number of Bishops to three, and leaving the Archdeacons as they stood, with respect to numbers, to take from their incomes as much as would provide 2,500 l 1022
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that one of the circumstances which had brought odium upon the College of Haileybury, was that the professors took upon themselves to do what was their duty, and to exercise the power of expulsion in cases of misconduct. The prize, which was snatched from the grasp of a family by the rejection of a son, was so great that the consequence was highly injurious to the reputation of the College. Young men who entered the College of Haileybury, were educated in a manner which was particularly adapted to a situation of a peculiar nature in India, so that the failure in attaining that object rendered the whole expense of money and time which had been devoted to it a complete waste. The system proposed by the hon. Member would have the same effect. He was happy to inform the hon. Member that Mr. Malthus entirely approved of the plan now proposed.
 Mr. Charles Grant  observed, that a sufficient number of Presbyterian clergymen could not be found for that purpose.
 Mr. Littleton  had no objection to the production of the documents, but as the correspondence was still going on, he would suggest the propriety of postponing the Motion until the documents should be complete. With respect to the conduct of the Roman Catholics, under the provocation they received, he had no hesitation in stating, that nothing could be more exemplary than the conduct of the Roman Catholic population of the north of Ireland—and that, they received, on the occasion alluded to the most unjustifiable, unmanly, and unchristian like provocation from the orangemen.
 Mr. Finch  supported the clause, and contended, that it was necessary for the advancement of religion that there should be an Established Church in India able to meet the increasing Christian population.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, he should not have troubled the House if it had not been for some observations of certain hon. Members. It was true that the Bishop of Calcutta, as explained in the preamble, had a most extensive jurisdiction—a jurisdiction to which his attention could not be fully extended; but after all, his jurisdiction would extend 2,000 miles from West to East, and over all that surface an European population would no doubt soon be diffused; and as the extent of Surface over which the Bishops had jurisdiction was made the ground of the present change, the same ground would be equally available for a further extension of the Episcopal Establishment.
 Mr. Warburton  agreed that it was necessary to adopt some system of competition. The question was—whether the system proposed was the best? What would be said, if, at the University, the fellowships were to be granted at the very moment of the students entering into the College? He thought that they ought to admit the principle of competion at the time of their leaving the College, as well as at their entrance. He was sorry that the latter part of Mr. Malthus's plan had not been adopted—that of admitting a great number of young men, who were afterwards to be sent out to India. Instances were frequent of men obtaining distinction at College, and gaining fellowships, who afterwards settled down into college monks.
 Mr. Warburton  had the same objection to this clause as to that which he had entertained to the clause respecting the Bishops—namely, that he did not think that the Hindoos and Mahomedans should be made to pay for an establishment in which they had no interest.
 Mr. Hume  said, that by this proposition,
 1037
 Mr. Hume  said, that nothing which he had heard had removed his impression that it was proper to abolish the College altogether, giving at the same time every opportunity of competition, in order to secure the fittest persons to be sent out to India. Young men brought up there went out quite unfit for their situations, and at the same time imbued with such ideas of their own importance as were extremely injurious to the service.
 Mr. Hume  was convinced, that the suggestion he had thrown out on a former evening to postpone this clause, ought to have been acted on. If they had done that, it was probable that fourteen of the clauses which depended on it, might at least have been dispensed with, He did not precisely understand what his hon. and learned friend (the member for Dublin) wished; but if his hon. friend wished
 1028
 Mr. Sheil : Then, are all religions to be established in India?
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the President of the Board of Control had admitted that he was anxious to establish his own peculiar form of Christianity in India. Let the right hon. Gentleman indulge in his predilections in his closet, but not in the Cabinet; let him adore his God in his own fashion, but not make his sectarian preferences the basis of his legislation. Paley had laid it down, that the Governor was bound to look to the religion of his people, not to his own. The right hon. Gentleman acted in direct variance with that position, and had not answered the question, whether he desired to have a dominant church in India.
 Mr. Sheil : Yes; but payment did not constitute establishment. In France all religions were supported, but none was established. Government would give pre-eminence by Act of Parliament to the Anglo-Indian Church, and this was done despite the advice of the East-India Company. He held in his hand the correspondence of the India Company with the Board of Control, dated July 10, 1833. The Company protested against the establishment of two more Bishoprics. It insisted that it was unjust to tax natives for the support of an establishment. He would read the following remarkable passage:—"And here, Sir, the court must call your attention to the striking fact, that the charge to India of the ecclesiastical establishment has been augmented since the institution of the see of Calcutta from 48,000 l l 1024 l l l l 1025
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, the College had hitherto proved a great expense to the Company, costing not less than 10,000 l
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, the only question before the House was, whether the Episcopal Establishment was to be increased or not? If the question had been whether the Episcopal Establishment was to be introduced into India, he should have voted differently. Two Bishops might possibly be quite sufficient, and he did not pledge himself to the number. The Bishops who had died in India so rapidly, had not died in consequence of excessive labour in their professional duties, but in consequence of the great precariousness of human life in that climate. The consequence of this was, that during the twelve years which had elapsed since Bishops were first appointed in India, for half that time, India had been without any Bishop—an inconvenience which would have been prevented by the appointment of two Bishops. Supposing confirmation to be necessary according to the tenets of the Church of England, it was extremely desirable that there should be a Bishop at all times in India. Whether there should be two or three Bishops, he did not mean to give an opinion; but there ought to be more than one. He did not think there was any hardship in compelling the inhabitants of India to pay not only for the Government which protects them, but also for the religion of that Government. With great submission to the hon. member for the University of Oxford, he must inform him that there was no dominant religion where the British flag was hoisted abroad. In India as elsewhere, the Established Churches of England, Ireland, and that of Scotland, stood upon an equal footing. He, therefore, concurred in this clause to the extent which he had mentioned, but no further, and without holding himself bound to any of the subsequent clauses relative to the Church in India.
 Mr. Macaulay  defended the present system of education at the College. At no other seminary in England could persons who were candidates for civil offices in India be properly educated. The principle of competition in opposition to patronage was that on which the clause depended, and on that he took his stand.
 Mr. Macaulay : All are to be paid.
 Mr. Finn  observed, that by and by it would be said, that the present salaries were inadequate to the dignity of the Bishops. Thus the expense would be increased by degrees.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had requested hon. Members to return to that calmness and charity of spirit which they had testified in the earlier part of the debate. Indeed, they ought to thank the
 1026 l l 1027 l
 Lord Althorp  reprobated the polemical line of argument adopted by the hon. Member, in the course of a debate that had been conducted with so much calmness and moderation. He wished to ask the hon. and learned member for Dublin, whether the answer of his right hon. friend to his remarks was not satisfactory to his views on the subject. Government wished to make such an arrangement as would be satisfactory to all parties, and tend to the extension of Christianity. Under the existing arrangement, the death of a Bishop left India for a very long time without any spiritual superintendence, which the present proposition would obviate. The Government had professed that they were willing, and promised to give every protection to Roman Catholics, and that promise would be kept.
 Lord Althorp  supported the clause. The placing of the candidates in Haileybury College, after the examination, would be a means of ascertaining the fitness of the persons to be sent out.
 Lord Morpeth  supported the clause. He believed, that he represented a larger number of Dissenters than any other Member in that House; but though he had the greatest respect for their feelings, and though no one looked with more goodwill to the success of independent missions than he did, yet he did not think, that in supporting the present clause he was acting in opposition to the feelings and opinions of his constituents. When he compared the amount of service to be performed, and the extent of country and population over which it was spread,
 1032
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  stated, that it was impossible for him to produce an Order in Council, the draft of which could not be yet drawn, inasmuch as the order must necessarily be founded on the Bill, the provisions of which were not yet determined. The Bill was not intended to supersede the existing Orders in Council: it was only intended to provide a maximum beyond which, in dealing with the labour of the slaves, the Colonial Legislatures could not go. It would not interfere with the further arrangements with respect to the government of slaves in those colonies in which they were established. As to the hon. Gentleman's observations with respect to apprenticeship, he had only to remark that apprenticeship, in any state or any part of the world, must necessarily be a state partly of freedom and partly of slavery.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  had hoped, that his noble friend knew enough of the difficulty of drawing up Orders in Council, to prevent him from thinking that such order could be drawn up before the provisions of the Bill, upon which it must be necessarily founded, were determined upon. He declared that no Order in Council was intended to be sent forth as a model of legislation for all the colonies.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that as the Bill was founded upon Resolutions which had received the approbation of both Houses of Parliament, he did not feel it necessary for him to trouble the House with any observations upon it, but should simply move that the Slavery Abolition Bill be now read a second time.
 Mr. Baring  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had formally communicated the Resolutions of the House to the Governors of the Colonies, and to the Colonial Legislatures? Much depended upon that. To have passed Resolutions in a Committee, by no means precluded a subsequent discussion of those Resolutions. But there were Resolutions involving a bargain, such as a loan, &c. the adoption of which by a Committee rendered a subsequent discussion of the question a matter of considerable difficulty. He wished, therefore, to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the Resolutions had been formally sent out to the Governors of the Colonies, and to the Colonial Assemblies, with an invitation to the latter to act on them as the Resolutions of Parliament; and the answer to that question would very much influence him as to the question of honour in the future discussion of the subject.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  stated, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, that as the Colonial Assemblies did not meet until November, there was at present no opportunity of laying the Resolutions before them; but he had thought it right formally to communicate them to the Governors of the Colonies, with instructions to submit them to the Legislatures, at the earliest possible period. It had been notified,
 1062
 Mr. Baring  proceeded. He collected from the answer of the right hon. Gentleman, that the Resolutions were not absolutely binding on Parliament, as no correspondent measure had hitherto been formally required from the Colonial Legislatures. If, on the contrary, those Legislatures had been convened, and the Resolutions had been formally communicated to them, that circumstance ought, in his mind, to have had considerable weight with the House. On the whole, he was certainly disposed to vote against a Bill which did not seem to give satisfaction to any of the parties interested in it. Not being satisfactory, he really could not consent to so enormous a sacrifice of public money as the Bill involved. If the Bill should go into a Committee, and he were able to attend that Committee, he would state the particular objections which he entertained to the provision by which the Chancellor of the Exchequer was empowered to raise the 20,000,000 l
 Mr. O'Connell  agreed in a great deal of what had fallen from the hon. member for Essex, as to the unsatisfactory character of the measure. He especially objected to the large compensation. It had been asserted, that the West-India proprietors had been harshly treated. Harshly treated! Instead of a loan of 15,000,000 l l
 Mr. Denison  contended, that the House was pledged by their Resolution to the principle of the Bill; and he strongly protested against their being called upon to retrace their steps. If that were attempted, it would have been infinitely better for all parties, had the measure never been broached at all.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  congratulated the hon. member for Oxford on having shown himself so true an advocate of Christianity, and giving proof, that it was part and parcel of the law of the land. With respect to the oaths talked of by the hon. Member, the House must bear in mind how oaths were found binding on Roman Catholics, according to the evidence given by Roman Catholic priests
 1081
 Mr. John Maxwell  having all his life supported liberal measures, wished to state, that he could not support this Bill, because it gave a character of complete indifference to all religion. To the Legislature, Christianity was interwoven with the law of the land, and he would not consent to admit the Jews into Parliament.
 Mr. Pelham  begged to say a few words upon a subject in which he was personally interested. He observed his name amongst those of other hon. Members of that House, as having attended at a meeting of
 1059
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that as emancipation formed the great feature of the Bill, he had no doubt that it would meet with the concurrence of the House. He was opposed to the long period of the apprenticeships, and had hoped, when the right hon. Gentleman changed the loan of fifteen millions to the proprietors, into a gift of twenty millions, that he would have taken the opportunity of curtailing the terms of the apprenticeship. He hoped, that this part of the Bill would be re-considered. As to the money, he was the last man in the world who would quarrel with a liberal expenditure for such a purpose; but he hoped that the liberality of the House would be met by a correspondent liberality on the part of the proprietors. It ought to be remembered, that if the proprietors had vested rights, the slaves had vested wrongs.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  said, his opposition to this measure did not rest upon any apprehension as to its practical results, but was based upon much higher grounds. The question was not whether three or four, or half a dozen Jews, should be admitted to Parliament, but whether the Legislature should continue to be an exclusively Christian Legislature? It was now proposed, that they should admit the avowed and inveterate enemies of Christianity. It was the duty of the House to legislate for the interest of religion and the maintenance of Christianity. With what consistency could they admit the enemies of that belief to assist in legislating for it? He knew, it
 1076
 Mr. Charles Grant  admitted, that this subject was well deserving the attention of the House. The hon. Member who had spoken last, truly stated, however, that the question was only one of time. His Majesty's Government did not defend the continuance of the tax. One great object of the present Bill was to separate the government and the commerce of India. Into such a question as the present, however, there were many considerations of caution and prudence entered; no one could deny the expediency of removing the taxes on salt and opium; but it was not to be forgotten, that those taxes produced a revenue of 2,500,000 l l
 Mr. Finch  rose to oppose the further progress of the Bill. To the Jewish people he was friendly, as far as they were entitled to a participation in constitutional privileges. Christianity, however, formed a part and parcel of that Constitution, to participate in the whole of which they now aspired; and he concurred with many that it would be a solecism to permit men denying the truth of Christianity to expound our laws, and administer justice to professors of Christianity. He was sure, that this measure would lead to the most disastrous results. All who wished well to the Church Establishment ought to set their faces against the admission of the Jews to Parliament. The proposition that all men, be they Jews, Hindoos, or Mahometans, were fit to legislate for this country, would lead to the principle that a Church Establishment was altogether unnecessary. He felt bound to oppose the measure. He gave the supporters of it credit for the most pure and praiseworthy motives, but as he felt that the measure was one of the most destructive that had ever been proposed to Parliament, he could not do otherwise than vote against it.
 Mr. Wilbraham  moved a clause, prohibiting the exclusive manufacture and
 1070
 Mr. Buckingham  begged to tender his support to the proposition of the hon. member for Cheshire (Mr. Wilbraham), and to offer a few remarks in confirmation of the evils to which this monopoly of salt by the India Company gave rise. It was one of the ancient abuses of the country; and, in the time of Warren Hastings and Lord Clive, the salt monopoly was a private perquisite of the servants of the East-India Company, who, in lieu of direct salaries corresponding to their rank or station, had certain shares assigned them in this monopoly, by which they enhanced the cost of salt on some occasions as high as 1,000 per cent above its natural price. This was an evil to be examined in two distinct points of view—the one as it affected the people of India, the other as it affected the people of England; for the monopoly was deeply injurious to both. To the people of India, salt was much more a necessary of life than to us, from the circumstance of their religion prohibiting the use of any but vegetable food. The want of this article, occasioned by its
 1071 1072 1073
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that though he regretted exceedingly to see a Bill of this nature pass through a second reading without a discussion of its principle, he would at least be no assenting party to such a step; and lest his silence should be misconstrued into an acquiescence with the principle, and an objection only to the details, he felt it his duty to protest against the whole principle of the Bill, as at variance with all those interests which it professed to promote. The only grounds on which such a measure could be undertaken, or defended, appeared to him to be these. It must be either, first, to satisfy the claims of abstract, right and justice, without referring to any other consideration; or, secondly, to meet the almost universal wishes of the people of England;
 1067 l l l l l 1068 l 1069
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that having already had an opportunity of declaring his sentiments on the principle of the Bill, at its second reading, he was not now going into the general question; but there was one argument of the opponents of this Bill on which so much stress had been laid, that he felt it his duty to show to the House, as briefly as he could, that it was founded entirely in error. It had been asserted, that the Jews were a people who had no attachment to the land of their nativity or habitation; their affections being wholly absorbed by Jerusalem and Palestine, to which they looked with such anxious longings, that they had no feelings of patriotism for any other country, but directed their regards, and concentrated their affections entirely on the Holy Land. Now, having been himself for some time at Jerusalem, having made Palestine the subject of his peculiar and careful observation, and having examined into the state and condition of the Jews there and elsewhere, he was bound to say, that he had never heard of a single English Jew
 1078 1079
 Mr. Hume  thought the monopoly of opium, as well as that of salt, should be
 1074
 Mr. Hume , in explanation, said, that he by no means wished to get rid of the revenue arising from the duty upon salt,
 1075
 Mr. Hume  objected to granting twenty millions without having adequate grounds upon which to form an estimate of the proper amount of remuneration. He was anxious to know what were the intentions of his Majesty's Government with respect to continuing the monopoly of sugar to the West-India Islands, or throwing the trade open. He distrusted the produce of free labour, and feared that the amount would be so much reduced as to raise the price of the article in this country as high again as it was at present. If the price of sugar were to rise 20 s l l l
 Mr. Bernal  said, as there was a general understanding that no discussion should take place on the second reading of the Bill, he would not trouble the House with any reply to the observations which had been made. He might tell the hon. and learned member, however, that the mandate of emancipation had gone forth, the Resolutions of both Houses had been sent out to the West-Indies, and the work of negro emancipation in the colonies was already effected. It only therefore remained for the Houses of Parliament, and those possessing property in those islands, to devise the best means of carrying these Resolutions into effect. He trusted that no personal feeling, or political feeling, would be allowed to stand in the way of so salutary a measure. He had always been of opinion, that the prosperity of Great Britain was bound up with the prosperrity of the colonies, and he thought it was the duty of Parliament and of the people of this country to see that no steps should be taken which would tend to diminish their prosperity. When the time came he should be ready to express his opinion on some of the clauses which had excited some opposition, and in the mean time would call on hon. Members not to show any unnecessary opposition to a Bill which must necessarily pass. With regard to the sum of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Godson  said, that in the essence of this Bill a most important principle was involved, which was, whether the Imperial Legislature had a right to take away at one fell swoop, all the Local Legislatures of the Colonies. Not one legal officer of the Crown had ventured to avow that the Imperial Legislature had any such right; and if it were avowed, it was not likely that the Colonial Legislatures would submit to it. This Bill limited the labour of a free man of full age and in full health to ten hours per diem, even though his extra labour were paid for, The
 1066 l l l per capita
 Mr. Sheil  said, that having once been himself disqualified on account of his
 1077
 Mr. Rigby Wason  considered the system of apprenticeships a valuable one, with adequate wages; but he did not approve of the provisions of the Bill in that respect.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that as a question of principle he should vote for the third reading. Those who had supported the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts and the Catholic Relief Bill, would act inconsistently if they did not support this measure.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the prejudices of the Indians were so powerful as to offer a complete bar to the substitution of any other tax in lieu of that on salt, to which they had been so long accustomed. He thought, therefore, that the matter had much better be left to the discretionary power of the local government of India.
 Mr. Robert Grant  was not guided by prophecies, but by precepts. He held, that every civil disability imposed on a particular sect, for which no reason was shown (for on those who opposed the Motion the burthen of proof lay) was not only oppression, but persecution. The advocates of the present measure might be compared to the good Samaritan, who did not refrain from relieving the man at the way side because he was an alien, and professed another creed. The arguments used to exclude the Jews from the ordinary rights of citizenship, were precisely those arguments used on the present occasion. He must express a hope, that this great question might be settled on the basis of charity, and in accordance with those great principles on which the Christian religion was founded, namely, of glory to God, and good will to men.
 Mr. Robert Grant  having moved the third reading of the Jews' Disabilities Bill,
 Dr. Lushington  said, that he had also been present during the earlier part of the meeting alluded to, and could assure his hon. friend and the House, that it was not the intention of those who generally take the lead in matters of this nature, that such a resolution should be adopted. He should certainly have felt great difficulty in acceding to such a proposition. The resolution was carried in his absence, but undoubtedly the meeting had a right to express its desire, that those Gentlemen who had been deputed from very respectable bodies in various cities and towns, at a period of great excitement, should attend, if such was their opinion. It was not his intention to enter into the discussion of the question before the House, as there seemed to be a determination that the second reading of the Bill should pass without a very narrow examination of the principle which was founded upon the Resolutions approved of by the House. He should, however, at the proper time move an instruction to the Committee, that all persons who had been slaves in the West-India islands, and who had once landed in Great Britain or Ireland, should if they returned to the West-Indies, be  ipso facto 1060 l
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought the case of the petitioner one of signal hardship, and could not help stating his firm belief to be, that the petitioner was the victim of personal malice on the part of some of the late members of the Board of Admiralty or their subalterns.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  wished to have the Order in Council, which was to be made the model of legislation in several colonies, laid upon the Table. It was most important this should be done for the purpose of enabling the House to form some idea of the new system of society which it was proposed to establish in the West Indies. He professed himself unable to understand the system of apprenticeship. It would appear to be a state partly of slavery and partly of freedom; he wished, if possible, to ascertain the proportions. He also urged as another reason for the necessity of producing this order that the provisions of the new Bill were more oppressive upon the negroes than the old Orders in Council. The Bill permitted them to labour ten hours a-day, while the old Orders in Council restricted the time to nine hours
 1057
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that he was not prepared to oppose the second reading. But he felt it necessary to repeat the objections which he had already stated against certain parts of it. The system of apprenticeships was incomprehensible, and he did not
 1058
 Mr. William Evans  denied that he was pledged by the Resolutions. Surely those who voted for the grant of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the Motion. There was already a large export of salt from Liverpool to New South Wales, to the United States, and to the Mediterranean; and there could be no doubt that it might be advantageously sent to India. He conceived it would, therefore be very bad policy to cripple the trade between England for the sake of raising a small revenue in India by an odious monopoly.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that he should oppose the Bill on the same ground upon which the hon. member for Kircudbright supported it—namely, on principle. He believed the Jews to be industrious and well conducted, but he did not think that they had any right to sit in a Christian Parliament. The prophecies of the Bible, according to the interpretation of a celebrated author, had been completely fulfilled. He must refer to the work itself in proof of this fact.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he had presented a petition from the port which he represented, very numerously signed, in favour of the measure, and he should support it.
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the prayer of the petition. If the House looked at the number of pensions that were given for doing nothing, they would consider it a great disgrace to take from this poor man his paltry pittance.
 Sir James Graham  was sorry the case had been brought before the House, inasmuch as it would render it imperative upon him to make statements that would not be very pleasant to the feelings of some parties. Up to 1812, he admitted, the petitioner had conducted himself in the most becom-
 1056
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the explanation of the hon. and gallant Member was not so satisfactory as might have been expected. The subject was of paramount importance, and after having given his most anxious consideration to it, he was prepared to give his determined opposition to this Bill. The measure went either too far or not far enough. Either they were legislating on principle, or with reference to living interests. If on principle, not the Jews alone, but all other sects, of whatever belief or of no belief at all, should be admitted into the government of Church and State. He had always contended, that by the very terms of the writ issued by the Crown, they were called together to legislate for the whole interests of England—for Church as well as for State. Thus, persons who were by profession and by personal belief hostile to them in one half of their subjects of legislation, could not be fit to be trusted with any share in it. He was always ready to do an act of justice to individuals as well as to numbers; but denying it to be an act of justice, and looking upon this measure as one of expediency only, how small was the advantage it would confer on any one. So small it was, indeed, that the title of the Bill ought to be, "a Bill to enable an hon. Gentleman to come from the Lobby into the Body of the House." Supposing one was an understatement, four Jews were certainly the utmost that would ever be admitted into that House. No great temporal mischief would arise, but the principle involved was great; and that principle would be sacrificed on the altar of expediency. The hon. member for Stamford had very properly referred the House to what had been done in other matters by foreign states, whose example they were requested to follow in the present case. He had shown,
 1080
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the position in which the House stood that day, as to the question of slavery, was very different from that in which it stood, when it first entered upon the consideration of it some few days ago. When they then went into Committee to consider the Resolutions of the right hon. Secretary, there had been no pledge respecting the immediate abolition of slavery. The question was then  res integra 1064 1065 l
 Mr. Clay 
 1055 l s d
 Lord Howick  still hoped, that his right hon. friend would be induced to accede to the request of the hon. Gentleman. The great anxiety of those who, like himself, believed the system of apprenticeship to be impossible, was to know by what means his right hon. friend proposed to carry that system into effect.
 Lord Howick  said, it had been expressly declared upon the discussion of the Resolutions, that the House was only pledged to the principle of a preparatory state between slavery and freedom, and not to the precise system contained in the Bill, and still less to the time for which it was to last. He agreed with the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets, that the confidence which his right hon. friend, the Colonial Secretary now placed in the Colonial Legislatures was quite contrary to the sentiments he had avowed when first submitting this scheme to the House. Considering the words which his right hon. friend had quoted from Mr. Canning, he could not trust the masters of slaves to legislate for them. He had requested his right hon. friend to submit the draft of the Order in Council, by which he proposed to carry his plan into effect; but his right hon. friend excused himself upon the ground of the difficulty of framing Orders in Council for such purposes. If his right hon. friend could not show how his principle was to be carried into effect, he was sure that would convince the House that the
 1061
 Lord Sandon  considered that the principle of apprenticeships and that of compensation were settled by the Resolutions, and the House ought not to revoke its decision.
 Lord Sandon  said, that when he was connected with this branch of the public economy, he had felt satisfied of the necessity for endeavouring to levy the revenue of India in some other way than by imposing a monopoly duty of salt upon the natives; he was now more than ever convinced of that necessity, and he should support any feasible proposition for some change in these respects. However, after the declaration of his right hon. friend, he hoped his hon. friend would feel satisfied, and withdraw his Amendment.
 Lord Sandon  said, that in supporting the Motion, it was not his intention to enter into the details of the question, because in considering these details in his own mind (and he had fully so considered them), he felt that no danger could occur either to the Church or State by the adoption of this measure.
 Major Handley  fully concurred in the observations of the hon. member for Lincolnshire. If carried in its present shape, the Bill would be an oppressive and meddling piece of legislation. He would not have objected to the first clause, if its operation had been confined to parishes having 1,000 inhabitants and upwards.
 Mr. Sandford  said, if the small farmers could appoint a day themselves on which they would work out their statute labour, it would be very well; but that was not the case; they were bound to go out when called upon, and that might be at the most inconvenient time. He therefore preferred an equalized rate
 Sir Matthew white Ridley  said, no Bill had received more consideration in Committee than the present one under discussion. If the House made the composition compulsory, it would be acting in opposition to the true interests of the farmer, for jobbing occurred where composition took place. One instance he would relate. The surveyor purchased two carts, which he worked himself, and the expense of them was levied on the parish by composition; this was unjust to those farmers who had teams of their own unemployed; and there was great difficulty to discover frauds. In another case, the best road he ever knew in his life was made by the surveyor employing his own teams, and advancing the money out of his own pocket—a composition to defray his expenses was levied on the parish, and that parish remained in his debt for upwards of seven years.
 Mr. Tennyson  rose to move for leave to bring
 1108 1109 1110 1111 1112
 General Palmer  said, that no Member of the House could feel more strongly, or acknowledge with more sincerity than he did, the obligation of the country to his Majesty's Ministers, for their great measure of Reform. But it was obvious, at the time the struggle for that measure was going
 1133 1134
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  spoke to order. When his right hon. friend, the late Secretary at War, was in that House, and when notice was given of a Motion respecting an alleged unconstitutional interference in the election at Bath, his right hon. friend declared himself ready to meet any charge which might be brought on that subject. An hon. Gentleman opposite, who had presented a petition complaining of the circumstances, was, he (Mr. Stanley) believe satisfied, that there was no foundation
 1135
 General Palmer  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, he certainly would not proceed, although, if he were to go on, he thought he could show, that the case in question was not so irrelevant to the subject under discussion as the right hon. Gentleman supposed.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  contended, that the great men who had passed the Septennial Act in the reign of George 1st, were far better qualified than the hon. member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett) could be, to judge of the necessity of that measure. There could be no doubt, that the original passing of the Septennial Bill was a great stretch of legislative power, but that did not affect the right of framing a prospective Act, and as far as related to the duration of all future Parliaments, the Parliament of that day had as undoubted a right to extend their duration as the present one had to shorten it. If they had not, it would follow, that
 1137 1138 Hear hear 1139
 Colonel Evans  said, that he would not remark upon that part of the hon. Member's observations who last spoke which related to the unpopularity likely to accrue to the opposers of this Motion, as he conceived, that it could not affect the question; but the circumstances and situation of this country during the lime when Triennial Parliaments were in existence had been alluded to, and if it had been proved that the country was then in a state far from prosperous, or that its affairs were in a better condition during the operation of the Septennial Act, then the arguments which had been adduced on that head would have been of consequence. He would remind the House of a period when long Parliaments were in existence—namely, during the time of the American war, and would ask it to compare the state of the country at that time with its stale in the reign of Queen Anne. In his opinion, the latter would be found to have the advantage. All the arguments of the noble paymaster were as strong in favour of the continuance of Parliaments for ten or twenty years as for seven, and if there were any weight in the argument, that long or Septennial Parliaments were of advantage because the Crown could at some period of these seven years select a moment of political calm, and when the people were in a sound state of mind to determine on a proper choice of their Representatives, then this object would be best secured by making the period of Parliament's duration indefinite, so as to give the Sovereign the more extended facility and opportunity of dissolving them at a crisis the most favourable fur the
 1140
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, he was more disposed than other hon. Members to give the right hon. member for Lambeth credit for
 1143 1144 1145 1146 1147
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad that this question had been brought on. It would try their souls. The question lay in a narrow compass, and the country could easily judge of it. It would afford one more specimen of the conduct of a reformed Parliament. He was sorry the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, did not meet this question fairly and openly. It was not a subject from which Ministers should shrink, but one about which reforming Ministers at least, should have made up their minds. The right hon. Secretary, had made up his mind, certainly; but the Government at large, if it thought the Motion a bad one, should have negatived it at once, and not have sheltered themselves behind the previous question. The Tories were consistent in opposing this most important branch of reform. He had heard more than one sentence that night, which indicated that the Whigs repented of having given the people so much Reform, and were determined not to let Reform go one jot further. The right hon. Gentleman, who brought forward the Motion, received no cheers from those constituents, suppose them to be reformers. The only ground upon which the right hon. Secretary put his argument was a total fallacy. He said, that this Motion was not called for by the people—that there were no petitions for Triennial Parliaments; but did the right hon. Gentleman forget, that most of the petitions presented to Parliament in favour of Reform, contained a prayer for shortening the duration of Parliaments? Perhaps that prayer was omitted in petitions presented during the pro-
 1148
 Mr. Gisbrone  said, that he came down to that House with the intention of opposing the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, but he owned that he had been almost talked out of' that intention by the speeches that had been delivered in support of it, and also by the Sentiments of some of those who opposed it. If, however, he should oppose the Motion, it was not from any concurrence in those high down monarchical principles which had been urged against it, but from his conviction that its rejection would be for the good of the people and the convenience of the House.
 Sir Ronal Ferguson  stated, that in voting in favour of the right hon. Gentleman's Motion, he should do so from a principle of consistency, and not from a belief that it could in this Session be attended with any practical result. He looked upon it as brought forward for the sake of a popularity which he had no doubt would he ephemeral.
 Mr. Tennyson  disclaimed any desire to gain popularity by this Motion. The objection, however, came badly from those who made it, for it was an admission that the question was a popular one with the nation. It was objected that his Motion was vague, in not stating the term to which he intended the duration of Parliaments should be limited. He had made it so for the purpose of avoiding the objections of some who might agree as to the
 1150
 Lord Granville Somerset  thought the Bill well calculated to destroy the system of favouritism which at present prevailed on the part of surveyors. He had assiduously attended the Committee, and to this clause given most particular attention. The law?, as it at present stood, was subject to great objections; but the extent of power vested in the Magistrates did away with the objections complained of, as they had the power to levy a rate when applied to. The present Bill went to relieve the small farmers, who were certainly most aggrieved. He (Lord Granville Somerset)
 1107
 Lord John Russell,  in explanation, said, that the hon. Gentleman had imputed to him that he had said, that Triennial Parliaments would be subversive of the Constitution. "Now" continued the noble Lord, "I beg to say, that I did not intend to say any such thing, and I believe I did not say so. What I said, or meant to say, was, that the establishing by law, that Parliaments should have but three years' duration, which practically would be two years, was incompatible with the maintenance of the mixed constitution of this country. This is my fixed and maturely considered opinion, and as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Tennyson) has pressed mc to speak my mind, I will not attempt to conceal it." It was his opinion as an individual member of that House, at the same time he thought it right to say, that if the question was merely one as to the abstract superiority of five or seven years' duration of Parliament, he would vote for a five years' duration; but that was not the Motion before the House, which he had therefore resisted upon the grounds he had stated.
 Lord John Russell  felt himself compelled to address the House upon this occasion. The right hon. Gentleman had called upon him to state his opinions upon this subject, averring that he (Lord John Russell) had carefully avoided explaining his sentiments upon it during the discussion on the Reform Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had placed him in a situation of some difficulty with
 1124 1125 1126 1127 1128
 Major Beauclerk  said, that the present Parliament had greatly disappointed the
 1149
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  agreed with the hon. Member who had moved the Amendment, that the Bill was more applicable to parishes of large population than to others but the measure had now been for three or four successive years before the House, and it should be disposed of. He himself re-
 1106
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  brought up the High.
 1105
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the noble Lord objected to vote, on the ground that he did not feel called upon at present to give an opinion on the subject, but that he might do so hereafter. Now he begged to ask the noble Lord, if the Motion were rejected that night, whether the rejection would not have a most baneful effect with respect to his Majesty's Government on the Constitution of another parliament. "The noble Paymaster of the Forces opposed the Motion on another ground. That noble Lord opposed it on the ground, that its adoption would be tantamount to a subversion of the Constitution. He had never heard a speech in that House so contrary to all the previously expressed opinions of the speaker, as the speech which had that night been delivered by the noble Paymaster of the Forces. Did the noble Lord recollect, that when it was urged by the enemies of the Reform measure, that it was an innovation upon the Constitution, he and his colleagues had maintained, that it was a restoration of the Constitution, and not an innovation upon it? So it was with respect to Triennial Parliaments. Their adoption would be a restoration of the Constitution, and not an innovation upon it. All that the right hon. Mover contended for was, that the House should pronounce an opinion that Septennial Parliaments were too long; leaving the question of the preferable duration to be afterwards determined. In the present state of the country, when, he believed, there was no set of men prepared to take the reins of government if his Majesty's present Ministers were to quit office, he was sorry to sec them pursue a course of conduct which, coupled with the declaration made by the noble Paymaster of the Forces, he
 1136
 Mr. Henry Handley  said, that the effect of the clause, as it stood, would be to place a tax of 5 l l
 Mr. Henry Handley  said, that it was with some regret he felt himself called upon to object to the passing of the first clause of the Bill, at least of that part of it which repealed the Statutes now in existence. He thought there was much difficulty in framing the Bill so as to meet the general necessities of the country; and that there ought to have been two Bills, one to apply to places of large population, and the other to the agricultural districts. As the law now stood, the farmer had the privilege of performing in kind his proportion of expense in the repair of roads; and one of the Acts proposed to be repealed authorised the surveyors to give four days' notice to the farmer, who would then have to provide a cart, three horses, and two men, to work for eight hours on the road. But the present Bill provided, that the farmer should contribute his proportion in hard money; by which he would not only lose the privilege of performing statute labour, but would be obliged, perhaps, to pay money towards the hire of his neighbour's horses, whilst his own were idle in the stable. Indeed, it would enable the surveyor to exercise a prejudicial system of favouritism. The law was well enough as it stood, and all he asked of the Committee was, not to take from the farmer the little boon he now possessed. He would move, as an Amendment, the adding of the following words to the clause: "excepting such enactments as relate to statute labour."
 Mr. James Kennedy  could not agree with the noble Lord that there was nothing in the present state of affairs which urged upon the House the necessity of agreeing to this Resolution. He asserted, that if there was any question deserving the attention of the House, it was this; for on it every other question depended. If this Motion were passed, it would have an influence upon every other question which came before parliament for hon. Gentlemen would then be influenced by a strong feeling of what they owed to the interests of their constituents. He should consider it as one of the worst omens for the future fate of the country, if the House should agree to the Amendment of the noble Lord. That House had fallen of late considerably in public esteem. When he offered himself in December last to his constituents, he had done so in the hope that he should be able to support those Ministers who had stepped out of the ranks of the aristocracy to give to the people that Reform, which, though it was but a measure of justice to which they had a right, was considered by them in the nature of a boon. No one was at that time more friendly to his Majesty's Ministers than he was; but when he heard the address proposed to the Throne, and when he saw the subsequent measures, he felt it to be his duty to fall into the ranks of the Opposition, and he believed that on the second occasion on which he had been obliged to recur to his constituents he had been returned to Parliament under the express understanding that he should be
 1123
 Mr. Hawkins  expressed his surprise at the declaration of the noble Lord, that it would he better to postpone the decision of the question until next Session; and maintained, that the present was the moment at which it ought to be determined. It ought to be determined before they went back to their constituents, which might shortly happen; that they might know for what period they were again to require their confidence. He entirely dissented from the opinions of the noble Paymaster of the Forces; for he thought, that the carrying: of the Reform Bill had rendered the present proposition more than ever necessary. Hon. Members complained of the practice of requiring pledges. What measure could be more likely to increase the demand for pledges than the continuance of Septennial Parliaments? If constituents had little confidence in their Representatives, what measure could be more likely to increase that confidence than to shorten the duration of Parliaments? One word respecting the term to which it was adviseable the duration of a Parliament should he restricted he would say at once, three years. He was an advocate for Triennial Parliaments, not because they were formerly established by law; but because he thought, that, upon the whole, they would be the most beneficial for the public. Four years might, perhaps, not be too long; and on the other hand, in the present state of public opinion, he should entertain no apprehensions if the term were limited to two years; nay, he should not dread a revolution even if it were limited to one year. But on a view of all the circumstances of the case, he thought the term of three years was the beat that could be adopted. He was indeed surprised at the argument, that short Parliaments were inimical to the true interests of the kingdom, when the great stalking horse of those who opposed them was, that we had them practically already. Supposing, for argument sake, that a Parliament never sat for more than three years, would the result be the same as if it sat by law only during that period? It would be totally different. They would, at least, lose the advantage which might otherwise be counted on, of superseding the necessity of pledges. There would be another difference. Under the present system the Crown always appeared against the people. The time for a dissolution was never chosen so as to favour the people,
 1141
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He thought that Ministers had displayed a sound discretion in not connecting the question of short Parliaments with that of a reform in the representation; but he had expected that they would have taken the first opportunity of introducing; this subject to the notice of the Reformed parliament. He was convinced that if they had taken up the matter they would have placed themselves in a most enviable situation, and produced the greatest satisfaction throughout the country. He admitted the expediency of the enactment of the Septennial Act in 1716, but he thought that it ought not to have been permitted to outlive that expediency. He had no hesitation in saying, that he was in favour of Triennial Parliaments; and he regretted, that his hon. friend had not fixed in his Bill three years as the period for the existence of Parliament. In doing so, his hon. friend would have acted in accordance with the feelings of the people, and every measure which was intended to have a beneficial effect ought to be in consonance with the public opinion. He was one who did not think that change was desirable, unless it was accompanied by some advantage; but he believed that the shortening of the duration of Parliaments would be attended with the most happy results, by waking the representatives of the people more sensible of their responsibility, and, consequently, more intent on the discharge of their duties. Besides, it could not be denied that the people were desirous of obtaining short Parliaments; indeed, it was a fact, that the mischiefs produced by the Septennial Act had made the people, in their desire to avoid one extreme, fall into another, and demand a return to annual Parliaments. In America the Parliaments lasted for two years only, and the consequence was, that a good understanding always existed between the representatives and the people. This never could be the case if the duration of Parliament was extended to seven years; for, before the expiration of that period, the representatives would begin to lose sight of the interests of their constituents, preferring to pay obedience to the dictates of the Minister of the day, rather than to act in accordance with the wishes of the people. Hence arose all those abuses which had crept into every institution of the State, civil, military, and clerical, and which would continue unreformed, so long as the Members of that House were released by the long
 1114 1115
 Mr. Sheil  could not help thinking that the commencement of the speech of the noble Lord was strangely at variance with its conclusion; for he commenced by stating that the Motion of the right him. Gentleman was too vague for him to grapple with, and he concluded by being himself as definite as man could be, by avowing himself the staunch supporter of the Septennial Act. The noble Lord had told them, that in his opinion short Parliaments were incompatible with the Monarchy. Now, he was sure that the noble Lord, with all his historical recollections fresh upon him, could not have forgotten that it was by a long Parliament that the Monarchy was once overthrown; and that, as to short Parliaments being the destruction of the Constitution, we had Triennial Parliaments from the year 1694 down to the year 1716, when the Septennial Act was passed. During all that time no attempt was made to establish a democracy in this country. The questions which agitated the nation were about the family which was to succeed to the Throne, and had not the slightest tendency to subvert the Throne itself, The noble Lord was also afraid of a dissolution during times of excitement, and wished elections to take place when the minds of the people were fixed and settled. Did not that argument come well from the noble Lord and his colleagues in the Ministry "Had the noble Lord so soon forgotten the tenure by which they held their places, and the measure by which the people obtained the Reform Bill." Did the noble Lord mean to say, that on questions of great public interest the intervention of the people ought to be of no avail? If such were the noble Lord's meaning now, against the oratory of the noble Lord he would put the conduct of his Administration—against his words he would array his deeds; for if he (Mr. Sheil) recollected rightly, the noble Lord was the same individual who had once deliberately declared it to be his opinion that the whisper of a faction must be unavailing against the voice of a nation. He recollected also that
 1129 1130 1131 cestui que
 Dr. Lushington  supported the Motion, and thought Triennial parliaments would be most salutary in enforcing the due attendance of Members to the duties required of them by their constituents. Such scenes as had occurred in the old unreformed Parliaments could not under this new provision be repeated with success. Members could not then leave the House with empty benches (as had been done) Until nearly the close of the long Parliament, when, in the anticipation of a dissolution, those benches would suddenly become crowded with Members, all anxious to appear to be doing their duty to their constituents by attending assiduously to the public business. He did not see, that the fact of this being a Reformed Parliament could be taken as affording grounds for supposing that its proceedings would, unless under some check, be different for he
 1142
 Mr. Cobbett  did not agree with the noble Lord as to the propriety of delay, if it were necessary that the thing should be done, the sooner it was done the better; and he thought there were good reasons why it should be done now. The country was not too well satisfied either with that House or with his Majesty's Ministers. If this Motion were carried, it might go far to restore the confidence of the people in that Mouse, and, if possible, reconcile the people to his Majesty's Ministers. The noble Lord said, that his opinions had once been in favour of shortening the duration of Parliaments, but that the Reform Bill had altered the case why should that alter the case? In the petition of Lord Grey, in 1793, after proposing more Reforms than had now been granted, Lord Grey said, that even those Reforms would not do, without shortening the duration of Parliaments, and quoted the preamble of the Triennial Bill in favour of the argument. Again, in 1796, Lord Grey made a Motion for Parliamentary Reform, and proposed such a Reform as had now been granted; but he did not neglect at the same time to insist on the necessity of shortening the duration of Parliaments. when the present Reform Act was brought in, the question was left open. Why should it not now be determined. "Did they recollect that, but a few weeks ago.
 1118 1119
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he should support the Motion. He was well satisfied to get rid of the Septennial Act upon any reason whatever. When they came to consider the other part of the Motion—namely, the time at which they intended to fix the duration of Parliaments—he should prefer five years; first, because he thought that the sense of the country was in favour of that Motion; and next, because that Motion was more likely than any other to be carried. As to the proposition for Annual Parliaments, he was convinced that the majority of the people were against such a change; and that throughout the country the hon. Member opposite would find himself in a minority on that point. He trusted that the first part of this Motion would be carried, and when it was, and when the Bill was introduced, and they came to consider the time at which the duration of Parliament should be fixed, he should propose five years.
 Sir Oswald Mosley,  as a Magistrate, said, that great inconvenience had been felt throughout the country for a long period, owing to the present system, which had been a great source of jobbing. He had, in his magisterial capacity, seen great iniquity arise from it, from the connivance between particular farmers and surveyors, by which not only was injustice done to other parties, but while one part of the road was kept in repair, other parts were retained in a state of dilapidation. He was convinced, that if, instead of statute labour, a highway rate were raised, and the surveyor to have the power of agreeing with the farmer for the hire of teams, and to contract for manual labour, justice would be better administered to the public, and the roads would be kept in better repair. In many large towns, he believed—indeed he knew it was so in Manchester—so great an evil was felt from statute labour, that it had been compounded for, and a highway rate levied instead of it. As to the hon. and gallant officer's (Major Handley's) assertion, that the Bill was a mischievous piece of legislation, he begged to dissent from it, and to assert, that it was a most complete and beneficial piece of legislation. He should oppose the Amendment, and give the Bill his cordial support.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  would vote for the Motion as essential to render the Reform Bill complete. That the Septennial Act should be repealed, he thought nobody could entertain any doubt; and the next question, therefore, for them to determine was, what was the period to which Parliament should in future be allowed to extend. He could not agree with the hon. and gallant Member who had just taken his seat as to the sense of the country being in favour of the term of five years; but upon the subject of Annual Parliaments, he thought there was some misapprehension arising necessarily from the doubtful light thrown upon this matter by the old records.
 1120 pari passu 1121 1122
 Lord Althorp  said, it was certainly true, that his noble friend (Lord John Russell) in introducing the subject of a Reform in Parliament, had entirely separated from it the question of the duration of Parliaments; and, therefore, he was not about to argue as if any gentleman, by what took place at the period he referred to, was pledged or precluded from discussing, freely and fully, the Motion then before the House. Nor did he intend, though it was his duty to state his own views, to call for the opinion of the House directly upon the subject, but rather to beg their attention simply to this question was it desirable to enter on the consideration of such a subject—one which he might term a second edition of the Reform Bill—on the 23rd of July This he really thought would be sufficient reason for every Gentleman, whatever might be his opinions, reserving himself at the present time. For no one, whatever his opinions or wishes might be, could be sanguine enough to hope to have such a measure as this carried without experiencing a great and determined opposition—such a one, indeed, as would preclude the chance, under the best auspices, of its being passed in the present Session. Therefore he thought it would be a great inconvenience to all parties to enter upon such a discussion at that period of time. He had said, and he thought it his duty to state it, for he had no wish to conceal his opinions, that he supported a proposition for shortening the duration of parliaments, and that support he should now give if the Parliament was at this time in the same state in which it was when he made the declaration. He thought at that time that the influence of the people in that House was below what it ought to be. That too was the ground on which he had supported Parliamentary Reform. He thought then, and he thought still, that the proper Constitution of that House required that it should truly represent the feelings of its constituents; and when the circumstances of the House were such that a large proportion of the; Members represented only themselves, it was proper that by the shortened duration of Parliaments, the constituency should exercise a greater influence over them than they then did. But at the present moment, from all he knew of the feelings of Members of that House, and all he knew from his
 1116 1117
 Lord Howick  would vote for the Amendment of the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer. In doing so, he did not feel that he thereby prejudged the principle of the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Tennyson's) Motion. The question actually before them, namely, the Amendment of his noble friend, was not a question between Septennial and Triennial Parliaments, but a question of the practical inexpediency of their embarrassing the progress of the several important measures now before the House, by bringing forward, at that late
 1132 laughter
 Lord Sandon  considered, that the supporters of the Motion were bound to show some particular reason for viewing, at the present time, with greater jealousy the conduct of that House. Was it when a greater weight had been given to the popular feeling that such an increased jealousy and distrust was to be indulged in? According to his view, they would better discharge their parts, as wise men, by waiting to see the effect of the great change they had already effected, than by proposing fresh alterations. What was it that had brought that House into so much discredit with the country. "Simply, that they had wasted their time, exerted their energies to no good end. Instead of attending to practical legislation, they had squandered hours on hours in debating abstract principles. He had told his constituents on the hustings, that after adjusting the machine, they should note its operations, and not try new experiments on its construction. He had promised them not to embark in new experiments, but attend honestly and sincerely to the consideration of great practical questions, and the promotion of great practical improvements—and that promise he would not depart from.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he should detain the House but a short time; but if they understood this subject, as he was sure they desired to do, they would agree with him, that it was one of the most important that could be brought under the consideration of the House. If the hon. Gentleman had studied the question a little more fully, he would not have spoken in the manner he had done, nor have deemed the question so easy of solution. He did not blame the hon. Member for the objections he had made to the present system, but because the hon. Member had not sketched out a plan by which he could
 1178 s d 1179 s s s d d s s s s s d s s 1180 1181 s s s s s l 1182 l l l l
 Mr. Marryat  said, that the permission to the refiners to refine foreign sugar in bond, and then export it for foreign consumption, could do no harm whatever to the West-India interests, but, at the same time, that it would do little, if any, good to the refining trade. Some time ago, such a measure of relief would have been a boon, but the trade, he feared, was now too much distressed to be assisted by it. He feared Government would find no small difficulty in framing regulations to secure the exportation of the whole of the refined produce, and unless this plan was completed in that regard, they would, beyond a doubt and with justice, meet with opposition from the West-India body.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  had come down with the intention of supporting the Motion of his hon. friend (the member for the Tower Hamlets); but after the very able speech of the right hon. Gentleman he had determined to support the Amendment, if it should be put as such. His Majesty's Ministers did right in determining, even at that late period of the Session, to relieve this important branch of the commerce of our country. He thought that the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets ought to be satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's proposition, at least for the present Session.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that as to the first question whether or no British plantation as well as foreign sugar, was to be admitted into bond, he had no difficulty in announcing, that, of course, it would. That was, in fact, an essential part of the plan. With regard to the second question, however, he must give a different reply. It was utterly impossible to permit West-India
 1184
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the point to which the hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) adverted, would be provided for in the Bill. Those who received sugar on which the duty was not paid, must receive it on premises approved of by the Customs, and under the Government lock, and as soon as they began to refine for home consumption, the lock would be taken off.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that after the recent long and close discussion of this subject, unless the hon. Member had some views not explained—unless there were some preparation to be made, or the pulse of the House to be felt with a view to ulterior objects, he might have spared his present address, and rested upon the general decision to which the House had already come. He might, perhaps, save himself the trouble of making a long reply by referring to the fact, that the House had given its sanction to the principle of apprenticeship—that it formed part of the plan upon which the Committee was about to enter
 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197 l s l l l l l s l s 1198 l d l l l l l s l l l l 1199 1200 1201 maximum 1202
 Mr. O' Connell  said, he would not trouble the House at any length, but the speech of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) was so extraordinary, and so far from embracing that principle of Reform which it professed, that he (Mr. O'Connell) should feel it his duty to touch upon some of the arguments (if they could be so called) of the noble Lord. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) who introduced the measure into that House, did so with all the tact, ingenuity, and eloquence, which he was famed for. On that occasion the right hon. Gentleman declared that slavery should be abolished, but at the same time he perpetuated it under the designation of an apprenticeship. On that occasion he made a speech for the slave, and to-night the same right hon. Gentleman made one for the planter. The people of this country, however, were not expected to pay for things twice over. It was proposed by this Bill to pay the planter 20,000,000 l l l 1213 l l l Shylock 1214
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that he had not made any charge against the hon. Member, nor attributed to him any desire of promoting insurrection. He believed the hon. Member incapable of a wish to do so. What he said, was, that the hon. Member's observations were not likely to produce a happy effect on the minds of the negroes, and that he the more regretted this, as, whatever fell from the hon. Member was attended with so much weight on account of his high character.
 Mr. Rotch  opposed the Motion, as he considered the subject one that was unworthy the attention of the Legislature, and which was more likely to entail evil than to do good. He also opposed it, because he did not wish to see the power that ought to belong to the Royal Prerogative transferred to the Lord Chamberlain. The Bill, if it passed, would do great injury to all parties that might be subjected to the will of the Lord Chamberlain. A theatre only brought together a set of unfortunate outcasts, who had no other means of existence, and yet it was for such a class that they were called upon to legislate. It was his duty to take the sense of the House on the question. He would therefore move as an Amendment that the Bill be read that day six months.
 Mr. Hawes  expressed his approbation of the plan of relief which had been announced, and hoped the noble Lord would lose no time in introducing a measure for carrying it into effect. It would, it was true, be but a temporary expedient—a species of legislation which, on general principles, it was unadvisable to adopt; but as it would enable the trade to get on until a more permanent and more efficient enactment could be devised, he trusted it would meet with no impediment in its progress through the House.
 Mr. Harvey  congratulated the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, upon the Government having conceded—for such he thought they had done—all that had been asked. He was a convert to the doctrines of the right honorable Gentleman, although he had entered the House determined to oppose him. The right hon. Gentleman had succeeded in making a dry technical subject interesting.
 Mr. Robinson  would support the noble Lord in carrying his proposition into effect, not from a feeling that it was adequate for the entire relief of the trade, but from the conviction, that if nothing was effected before Parliament separated, there would be no necessity for legislating at all next Session, it being impossible the trade could linger out three months longer in its present depressed condition.
 Mr. Briscoe  congratulated the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets on his success, and congratulated the country on the results which must follow from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, since he had stated that not less than 800,000 l
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether persons importing sugar for refining would be permitted to work one-half the year for home consumption, and the other six months for foreign consumption. If a clause which would permit this could be introduced, he conceived it would be a great gain to the refiners. He could not sit down without urging his hon. friend (Mr. Clay), though he had not got all he sought for, to accede to the Resolution proposed by Government.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, that the Motion exceeded the limit put forth in the petition. All that the West Indians wanted was to be dealt justly with; and he defended them from the imputations cast on them by the right hon. Gentleman. As to the observations about distress, he thought that that ought to be; put out of the question; for it was but distress against distress. All that they required was, to be secured against the competition of those slave-driving colonies, where the cost of labour was less than in our Colonies. The colonies would be so much injured by the change now about to be made, that they must depend on something more than the export trade. They wished that the sugar refiners of this country should be put into good spirits, but that that should not
 1183
 Mr. Bernal  said, that the only point on which the West-India body hesitated before expressing their concurrence in the plan of the noble Lord referred to the possibility of binding the refiners to conduct the process of their trade in bond, or, more
 1176
 Mr. Bernal  expressed his apprehensions that the plan of the Government would not be found to answer the expectations of those who proposed it. He feared, too, that, in the mean time, much restlessness would be excited among the negro population of the colonies. This would be the case in Jamaica, when the Resolutions were communicated to the negroes in that Island. Some might, perhaps, be content to remain in the state in which they were now, but others, he feared, would be in a hurry to avail themselves of the real or supposed advantages of this measure. It would be a difficult thing to restrain men under such a state of circumstances. The irritation and excitement which now existed among them would increase, and that would not be likely to induce men in authority there to look with favour on this measure. The part of the Bill which went to displace the present Magistrates, and to put in their stead stipendiary Magistrates, would produce, among that class of persons, feelings by no means favourable to the Bill, nor likely to promote the public peace. He wished that the Government had confined the measure to declaring the principle of compensation, and that they had then left the rest to the local Legislatures. It would have been better, in his opinion, to leave it to the experience of the Legislatures in the different Islands to work out the principle of the measure. No man, however well skilled in legislation, could, at the distance of 4,000 miles, chalk out with certainty and precision the means by which such a mighty change could be best carried into effect. All the Islands differed from each other, and it required a particular knowledge of each to adapt the measure to its peculiar circumstances. As to the stipendiary Magistrates, for instance, he was convinced that not fifty, but 200 would be required to carry the plan into effect in Jamaica. Some of the parishes were there sixteen miles distant from each other; and it would be a great inconvenience to go from one Magistrate to another when the presence of more than one was required on any particular occasion. This was one of the difficulties, too many of which would be found in the Bill. He had done as much as he could to forward the views of the Government—he had sent out the Resolutions
 1215 1216 s 1217
 Dr. Lushington  thought the statement of the noble Lord who had just sat down, in which he attributed the lamentable decline of the refining trade to the encouraging system of foreign Powers, afforded the best possible argument in favour of an extensive alteration in the laws which pressed on the refining trade. Unless Great Britain gave her manufactures as much encouragement as foreign Powers extended to theirs, the time was not distant when our commercial prosperity, and with it the general prosperity of the nation, must fall. The hon. and learned Member proceeded at great length to depict the distress which was felt among his constituents in consequence of the decline in the refining trade, and to urge on the Government the propriety of not losing an hour in granting them some relief. Those whose interests he advocated asked for no bounty—no unfair advantage—no unjust monopoly. They acknowledged the title of the West Indian colonies to supply the home markets; but they put in their claims to be allowed to employ all the means in their power to keep up their trade. He hoped the proposition of the noble Lord would at once be carried, for, unless something was immediately done, before Christmas the trade would be altogether at an end. The proposal of the noble Lord was unquestionably inadequate, but it would effect some relief, and he would therefore hail it with gratitude.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  trusted to the indulgence of the House for permission to say a very few words in reply to, perhaps, the severest charge that could be brought against any individual—he alluded to that which fell from his right hon. friend. It was a charge very galling; because if there was any one thing which he would not do, it was stirring up to insurrection the negroes of the colonies. The colonists had attributed to him a desire of that description; but God forbid that he should entertain it, or act with any one who did. He felt it his duty, however, to advert to that charge. And let him ask the first man who had ever talked in that House of insurrection in the colonies, was the idea a new one? Had it been breathed from his lips for the first time? The House must recollect that for the last twelve months it had been spoken of, if not as a matter of course, at least as a thing of very probable occurrence. It had been talked of by the colonists themselves; who in that period, also, had gravely spoken of transferring their allegiance from the Crown of Great Britain to the Republic of the United States.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose, and said, he felt the greatest mortification, in common with all other friends to emancipation, in finding this Bill neither a safe nor a satisfactory measure. Important changes had been made in it since it had been first in troduced to Parliament, but he was sorry to say, that these changes tended all to the benefit of the planter, and the detriment of the slaves. He could never forget the eloquent speech which he had heard from the right hon. Secretary on introducing this measure, of which one of the principal objects was, to show that it would be folly to
 1185 1186 l l l l l l 1187 l s d. l s d d d. s l s d s l s d l s d l s d l 1188 l l l 1189 l 1190 l 1191 1192
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  would not utter another word upon a point upon which he certainly felt most deeply, but which the right hon. Gentleman had satisfactorily explained. The right hon. Gentleman had done him the honour to say, that the language that he held towards the negroes might have some influence upon them. If he thought that such were the case, if, indeed, the faintest echo of his voice could ever reach them—most earnestly, most emphatically, would he implore them, by every motive of duty, gratitude, and self-interest, to do their part towards the peaceful termination of their bondage. He would say to them, "The time of your deliverance is at hand;—let that period be sacred—let it be
 1218
 Mr. Macaulay  said, he rose with feelings of regret upon the present occasion. Though he had taken no part in the discussion upon this Bill, yet there was no one who had with more patience watched, or with greater anxiety attended to, the provisions of a measure, which he could not but consider to contain a great mixture of good and evil. He should now express his opinions upon this Bill in general, and particularly on those parts in which Amendments had been introduced, and to which the hon. Member (Mr. Fowell Buxton) had referred. He should discharge his duty, he was afraid, very imperfectly, and he would therefore entreat the House to extend to him that indulgence on the present occasion which he had experienced on former occasions when he had addressed it with less harassed feelings, and more confidence than at present. He had every disposition not only to do the amplest justice to his Majesty's Ministers, but to give them the greatest credit—them, with whom he generally acted—for having framed every part of this measure with the purest and most benevolent intentions, even those parts of which he could not approve. To those parts of which he disapproved, he was anxious to state his objection, but, previous to doing that, he most solemnly
 1203 1204 1205 1206 1207 l 1208 1209
 Mr. Clay  said, that, after the answer which the right hon. Gentleman had given to his second question, he did not see how it was possible for him, in accordance with the pledges he had given, to assent to the Amendment.
 Mr. Clay  wished to know whether he was to understand that the Bill would permit the refining of British Colonial sugar, the same as the foreign; and, secondly, whether the Bill would permit the introduction into the British market of the British Colonial sugar, so refined in bond, on the payment of a fair and adequate duty?
 Mr. Clay , pursuant to notice, rose to submit a Resolution to the effect of admitting foreign sugar to be refined for exportation. The hon. Member having stated, that he had hoped that the West-India interest, in whose favour the present mischievous monopoly was maintained, would have, of their own accord, proposed a relaxation of that monopoly, seeing that it had, without essentially benefiting themselves,
 1165 1166 1167 l l l l l s d l 1168 s s l s s d s 1169 s s l l l 1170 1171 l l
 Lord Althorp  observed, that in leaving to the Government to decide upon the best means of carrying into effect the object of his Resolution the hon. Member had managed to divest himself of, by no means the easiest branch of his duties. It was very easy to say, that such and such a measure was expedient, but quite the reverse to lay down the means by which it could best be carried into effect. Therefore it was with no small surprise that he had heard the
 1172 1173 s 1174 1175
 Lord Althorp  said, that the question really before the House was whether it was right and fitting that an adult negro born in slavery, and surrounded by the circumstances which attended that condition in the colonies, should be all at once admitted to a state of perfect freedom; and whether, if that question were answered in the negative, the state of apprenticeship for a definite period, within which the slave might purchase his freedom, was not a state of probation advantageous to the negro himself, and not injurious to his master? He maintained the negative of the former, and the affirmative of the latter proposition. His hon. friend (Mr. Macaulay) asserted, that they should consider the question solely in reference to the benefit of the negro (regard being had to the planter's just claims to compensation); but surely it was not impossible to consider at the same time whether the preparation for a state of unrestricted freedom might not also be made advantageous to the master. And this double benefit the apprenticeship scheme went to effect. The circumstance to which the hon. Member so much objected—namely, the necessity of the negro's accumulating 10 l 1212
 Lord Howick  thought, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley) had not met the objections of his hon. friend (Mr. Fowell Buxton) against the apprenticeship portion of the present plan. That plan was neither compulsion nor freedom, but a mixture of both, which would be totally inefficient in the colonies. There was a feeling in the negro mind that Ministers proposed already by this apprenticeship scheme merely to perpetuate the evils of slavery. The taunts of his right hon. friend against the hon. member for Weymouth—of his having by his "blind, obstinate, and imprudent" conduct encouraged, and actually occasioned insurrection in the colonies—came with a particularly ill grace from one against whom so many similar taunts had been urged by the opponents of the Catholic Bill—that his "imprudent "prophecies of the dangers of delaying that measure tended to engender the ills they predicted. If his right hon. friend would permit the negro to take his
 1211
 Lord Sandon  said, that unless the House were disposed to inflict artificial sterility on the colonies, or unless it could devise some stronger stimulus of labour, they must adopt the combined system of coercion and stimulus which the right hon. Gentleman's
 1210 The Christian Record
 Lord Sandon  contended, that if the sugar refiners were not satisfied with the arrangement which the noble Lord proposed, they had something more in view than the mere object of keeping up their trade. He understood they were not satisfied, and had expressed an opinion, that the permission to refine sugar in bond, and then export it, would do them no good whatever. Now, if that information were correct, how could they make out a case to prove that their only object in stirring the question was to obtain permission to refine sugar for exportation? If that was their sole object, who, he asked, objected to allowing them to refine it in bond? He contended, that the refiners were in error in attributing the depressed condition of their trade to the protection of the home market against foreign sugars. The real cause of the decline was to be found in the fact, that since the peace almost all foreign Powers had adopted the protecting system, and in each was encouraged home manufactories, to the exclusion of British products? In France, for instance, so great was the encouragement held out by Government to resident refiners, that the bounties paid on home refined sugar during the last year exceeded 76,000 l
 Mr. Ruthven  declared, that he could not let that opportunity pass of protesting against the further progress of the Bill in its present shape. He did not do so exclusively on his own part, though his feelings were strongly adverse to it; but he did so on the part of multitudes, who had the moral, religious, and physical interests of the negroes at heart. He had intended to move some Amendments, to the effect of providing for the immediate manumission of the negroes, but he hoped the hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. Fowell Buxton) would, by taking it into his own hands, supersede the necessity for his so doing. He trusted that the period of apprenticeship would be limited to one year; and he would most earnestly recommend to the hon. Gentleman to persevere in fixing it at that term. The opinion of the people of England, as expressed by their delegates in London, was adverse to the apprenticeship being continued to so unconscionable a period as twelve years; and he (Mr. Ruthven) therefore hoped the Government would see reason to change their opinions on the subject, and make the Bill more in accordance with the views of the nation. He also trusted that his Majesty's Ministers and that House would pause before they threw away on the body of West-India planters, at the present season of unexampled distress and discontent in these kingdoms, the enormous sum of 20,000,000 l 1235
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  had intended to guard against the recurrence of such cases as his hon. and learned friend had related, by some provision in the Bill, but he had not intended to go so far as the proposed Resolution stated. However, seeing the unanimous feeling of the House, he would offer no opposition to the Motion.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  hoped the Committee would excuse him for adverting to the position in which, after the discussion last night, the Government stood. It was impossible, to look to the opinion then expressed, not to perceive that there was a strong feeling, not, he believed, against the principle of apprenticeship as an intermediate state of probation between slavery and perfect freedom, but against the period
 1239
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the negotiation into which the Government had entered with that body, as to the precise period of twelve and seven years' apprenticeship, was undoubtedly binding on them as members of that House; but it only bound them as Ministers to propose that term to Parliament. It was quite competent for the House to accede to or reject it. He called on his noble friend to say, whether there had not been on the part of the Government every endeavour to maintain their part of the agreement; but, surrounded as they were with difficulties on all sides, notwithstanding their utmost exertions to keep inviolable their portion of the contract, there were circumstances, as was evident from the close division of last night—a division (he did not deny it) in spite of every effort of the Government to secure a large majority—which might render it impossible for them to carry the term of twelve years to its full extent. Certainly, if the noble Lord insisted on it, he felt himself bound to give him his vote; individually, he must personally redeem his pledge as a man, but he should then feel it to be his duty to look to his character as a Minister.
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  thought it hard, that the West-India body should be thrown overboard by a mere inference upon the division of last night. He did not consider, that the Resolutions of last night involved any necessity for the coming to such a conclusion as that adopted by the Government. It was hard to overthrow a definite contract upon an indefinite supposition.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, if it should ever occur to the hon. Member to have a place in the Government, he would come to different conclusions upon such divisions. He believed the Ministers had pursued the soundest and best course for all parties.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he should postpone his Motion for the present, but renew it on this day week, unless the reporters altered their conduct with respect to him.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  proposed to fill up the blank in the first clause, which reduced the compulsory labour of the slaves to ten hours in the day, or sixty hours in the week, with the date, November 1, 1833.
 Mr. Marryat  thought, that the proposed date was too early a period for the clause to come into operation, and moved as an Amendment, that the "1st of June, 1834," be substituted for the 1st of November, 1833.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the effect of the Amendment would be to continue to the slave-owner the power he now possessed for twelve months longer. He objected to the Amendment, but if it was persevered in, he thought it would be better to extend the term to the 1st of August, 1834, when the new system of apprenticeships would begin. The right hon. Gentleman also stated, that it was the intention of Government to send out stipendiary Magistrates as soon as possible, and, notwithstanding all that had been said about the difficulty of procuring persons competent to discharge the duty in consequence of the lowness of the salary, the Government had received numerous applications from persons well fitted by their education for the situaion,—he meant officers receiving half-pay in the army and navy.
 Mr. Marryat  said, he would act upon the suggestion of the right hon. Secretary,
 1253
 Lord Howick  said, that though an enemy to slavery, and though much disgusted by the horrors of flogging, he could not for the sake of the slaves themselves, and for the sake of their masters, give his consent to take away that on which slavery alone could stand, before preparations were made for a new state of things. The right hon. Secretary's proposition was to continue slavery in a modified form, and yet to deprive the planters of that by which alone they could retain the slaves in subjection—namely, the whip. He was afraid that the abolition of the power of punishment would lead to much mischief. He contended, that the slaves being secured against the infliction of flogging, and not excited by any other motive, would neglect their work. To substantiate this argument, the noble Lord read an extract from the evidence of Captain Elliott given by a gentleman before the Committee of last year, to the effect that the labour done by the negroes in Demerara had decreased one-fifth, in consequence of the banishment of the whip from the field. When the House considered the extent of Jamaica, and the distance at which some of the plantations were from the Magistrates, he thought it would conclude that great danger would be likely to result from taking away the power of the master. To make the stimulus of the whip effective, it must be more severe and cruel than at present, and he could not contemplate such an increase of severity without horror. He would recommend the House to omit the clause.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  hoped, that the stipendiary Magistrates who were to be appointed would be ready to take their situations when the transfer of the powers of the Magistracy was to be made. It would be essential to the security of the colonies that it should be so. If the success of this measure depended on anything, it depended on the two first clauses. If the House persisted in retaining the 1st of November, 1833, as the day on which the new system, putting an end to the domestic authority of the owners, was to come into operation, he had considerable fear that the greatest confusion would ensue; for what was there between that day and the 1st of August, 1834, when the system of apprenticed labourers was to begin, that could be used to restrain them? The new Magistrates
 1254
 Mr. O'Connell  trusted, that every effort would be made by the Ministers to carry the clause in order that the next crop might be obtained under a mitigated system of slavery, to enable the emancipation to begin from the 1st of November.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  thought there was nothing that could compensate the use of the whip for a longer period than that at which it was determined it should cease. The West Indians, however, now proposed to retain it for six months longer. However, it was probably necessary that some sacrifices should be made. If the power of the whip was taken away, and the power of wages not brought into operation, there would no doubt be a diminution of industry, so that he should refuse a concession of the continuance of the domestic authority till May, provided a corresponding concession was granted in the shortening of the term of apprenticeship, which was but a system of half slavery and half freedom.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  thought it was not worth while, for the sake of a few months, to try any new experiment. He did not think the negroes were naturally cruel. On the contrary, he believed them to be docile; but at the same time he wished the officers to be ready to act when the change took place, and therefore he hoped that the changes now proposed to be effected on the 1st of November, 1833, should be postponed to August, 1834.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was pleased with the mode in which the clauses of this Bill were now discussed. He thought it was impossible to retain the two dates of November and August, and to fix any middle period for the date of the commencement of the apprenticeship, but he thought he had something to propose which might satisfy all parties. When he went into office, he found that it had been for twenty-five years a matter of dispute with the colony of Jamaica whether their House of Assembly there had or had not a right to send bills over to this country without the suspending clause. The difficulty could be met by instructing the Governors not to assent to Bills, except under particular restrictions; but he was prepared on this particular occasion to waive the suspending clause, and then the colonial Acts passed to carry this Bill into effect might
 1255
 Dr. Lushington  assented to the proposition of his right hon. friend, and assured the Committee that his only wish was to see this measure carried into full effect in the best manner possible. It was quite true, that in the interval between the end of the domestic authority of the master, and the commencement of the apprenticeship, it was probable that the negro would not work, partly from excitement at the anticipated change of his condition, partly from the absence of the old terror, and partly from the fact that the new and modified terror had not come into operation. Against that danger it was proposed to provide, by leaving in the hands of persons on the spot, the power of inflicting punishment. The plan of the right hon. Gentleman was good, as it would give further time to the Local Legislatures to make new regulations. He hoped there would not be a single dissentient voice on the subject, in order that the plan might have the greater effect in the colonies.
 Mr. Robinson  was pleased with these mutual concessions of the two extremes of opinion. He approved of the plan of the right hon. Gentleman. He did not think that in the meantime the power of punishment would be used with severity.
 Mr. Young  expressed his gratification at the modification of the plan, and at the spirit in which it had been received. He wished, however, that the period fixed had been the 1st of August, instead of the 1st of June. On a balance of the loss and gain of time by the change, the planters would certainly be the losers.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  would consent to the plan now proposed, in the hope of shortening the term of apprenticeship.
 Mr. Stanley  trusted there would be unanimity on this subject, and that the Committee would not be divided about quibbles as to comparative loss or gain of time.
 Lord Howick  preferred the original Motion to the Amendment, and objected to the compromise now proposed. He had a great objection to flogging, but as long as slavery existed, it could not be dispensed with.
 Lord Althorp  thought there would be no great difference as to the time between the two periods, but the fixing the two changes on the 1st of June would be more likely to lead to an accommodation of opinion. Besides that, by the 1st of June the instructions could be sent out to the Governors so as to enable them to notify fully the intentions of the Government.
 Mr. Baldwin  should have no objection to give his consent to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, if the effect was likely to be what was anticipated, but he objected to it because he thought the change would not induce the Colonial Legislatures to give their assent to the measure, but they would look upon it as showing a vacillation of purpose. The sooner the House took away the power of punishment the better. The intermediate state would prepare both master and negro for the change, and enable the negro to become accustomed to the habit of working without punishment. The power of punishment should be in the hands of Magistrates, and not in the hands of planters.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that it was now proposed to fill up those blanks with the words "1st of June, 1840"
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that he was sorry to be under the necessity of addressing the House once more upon this subject.
 1257 l d 1258 l d d l 1259
 Mr. Hardy , in seconding the Motion, said, that he considered the period proposed by the hon. Member to be sufficiently liberal. It was a gross anomaly to say, that a boy of six years old should become free at thirteen, while a man who had spent sixty years of his life in captivity, should have seven years more of that dreadful state to undergo before he could be declared free. The only way to get rid of the anomaly
 1260
 Lord Allhorp  repeated what he had said in the early sitting of the House, that Ministers, in reducing the term of apprenticeship to seven years, or rather in fact to six years, for it would be only six from the time the measure was to take effect, had gone quite as far as they were prepared lo go. In point of fact, saying that the apprenticeship should be limited to two years (for in effect his hon. friend's amendment would make it two years only) from the commencement of the Act, would be nearly equivalent to no apprenticeship at all. His hon. friend would therefore do much better to reject all apprenticeship. He did not dispute the fact for which his hon. friend had contended, that slaves would work if inducement were given to them; and one object of this Bill was to hold out such inducement. He was glad to hear from his hon. friend the admission that Ministers were disposed to do some good lo the negroes. After the language which had been used that evening, comparing them to freebooters, it was satisfactory to hear from such good authority as his hon. friend, that the great object of this Bill was to benefit the negro. Looking at his hon friend's Amendment as totally destructive of one great principle of the Bill (for they might as well have no apprenticeship at all as the short interval which he had proposed), he would give it his decided opposition.
 Dr. Lushington  expressed the great pain
 1261 l 1262
 Mr. Ward  said, that some of the expressions which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, who had called himself the friend of the noble Lord, and the right hon. Gentleman near him, showed at least that Ministers were very unfortunate in their friends. With all the hon. and learned Gentleman's friendly feelings towards them, he had applied to them the terms of miserable inconsistency, and a violation of the principles of justice. The hon. and learned Gentleman must have admitted the necessity of apprenticeship when he assented to the resolutions to which the House had agreed, he (Mr. Ward) admitted that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies was wise and prudent in reducing the term of apprenticeship to seven years, but he hoped that there would be no further reduction, for he considered it necessary for the slaves themselves, preparatory to their entering into a state of freedom.
 Lord Morpeth  wished to make a single remark. He voted last night for the Resolution of the hon. member for Weymouth, because, although he had voted for the Resolutions proposed by his right hon. friend, and it was superfluous for him therefore to say that he considered himself bound by that vote, yet he was unwilling to doom a creature to what was in fact a long life of servitude. Iris right hon. friend, however, having that morning discreetly and fairly proposed a considerable diminution of the term of apprenticeship, he was not prepared, for a comparatively small period of time, to risk the entire loss
 1263
 Colonel Torrens , though he did not yield either to the hon. member for Weymouth, or to the hon. and learned civilian, the member for the Tower Hamlets, in a sincere and ardent desire for the total and immediate abolition of slavery throughout the British colonies, yet he could not, on the question now before the House, come to the conclusion at which they had arrived. In a densely peopled island like Barbadoes, where all the land was already occupied, and where, in consequence, the means of supplying subsistence were deficient, there could be no doubt but that labour could be obtained for hire. There the pressure of necessity, the absolute want of food, would compel the negro to work for wages; and therefore, in the old colonies circumstanced like Barbadoes, instantaneous emancipation, without intermediate apprenticeship or preparation, might take place. But the case was widely different with respect to the colonies of Trinidad, Berbice, and Demerara. In these there were immense tracts of the most fertile land still unoccupied; and, as every individual could with little labour raise abundance of subsistence for himself as an independent cultivator, labour could not be procured for wages. The error of the hon. member for Weymouth, therefore, amounted to this. He adopted general principles, and applied them to practice without regard to the varying circumstances by which, in different cases, the operation of general principles was modified and controlled. It was a general principle, that men were willing to work for wages, because, in general, men could not obtain a living unless they worked for wages. But this general principle was not applicable to those particular circumstances in which men could obtain sufficient subsistence by "working for themselves and not for another." The principle so forcibly contended for by the hon. member for Weymouth was true with respect to the old and thickly peopled colonies, but was not true with respect to the
 1264 1265 1266
 Mr. Buckingham  said, he had listened with great attention to all the arguments that had been adduced in favour of the protracted servitude of the slaves; but the progress of the whole discussion had only proved to him how inextricable were the embarrassments that were sure to surround those who set out on a wrong principle. It was in this way alone that he could account for the fallacies, absurdities, and self-contradictions, by which the plans of the Ministers were characterized. He was
 1267 1268 1269
 Mr. Pease  contended that wages were the only proper stimulus of labour; and though he was sorry to vote against his Majesty's Government, he would support the shorter term of apprenticeship.
 Admiral Fleming  would not vote for the proposition of the hon. member for Weymouth, because he felt that its adoption would be injurious to the negroes themselves; for care must be taken that they and their families were not driven from the estate on which they were born and bred. When they became free the planters would pick out the best to employ and drive away all the old and infirm.
 Mr. Strickland  felt bound, in consistency with the opinion which he had expressed on a former occasion, to vote for the shorter period of apprenticeship. The sum of twenty millions given to the planters was a large one; and his Majesty's Government ought, in return, to meet the voice of the people, and make the term of apprenticeship as short as possible.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  recommended that they should combine apprenticeship with adequate wages. From the closest calculations, taken from the average price of negroes, he found that 20,000,000 l l l l
 Mr. Halcombe  rose to move an Amendment, which, he said, had for its object the enabling the negro to shorten the term of his apprenticeship, and to be the arbiter of his future fortunes. He thought it would be advisable, however, not to free all the slaves at once; and this object would be attained by making some difference in the length of notice which slaves
 1271
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the Committee having decided that the apprenticeship should be terminated at a given period it could not be left to either party to alter that period.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  did not see why this distinction should be made in favour of the non-predial labourers. For his part, he thought it best to amalgamate all the three clauses, and Fix one term for all sorts of slaves, and that term six years.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  agreed with the hon. Member that such an amalgamation would be a good method, and he would heartily support the hon. Member if he would propose the same term for predial slaves which the Bill fixed for household slaves.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the Committee should recollect that they had already decided that a distinction should be drawn, and he thought very fair grounds had been shown for such distinction.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the contract insisted on was a left-handed document, for a large party of the West-Indians themselves did not agree to it, and had exerted themselves to set it aside. He approved of the Ministers conforming to the views of the House of Commons.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a matter which he considered of very great importance—the manner in which the proceedings of that House were reported in the public prints.
 Mr. O'Connell  proceeded. He was aware, that the House was engaged in an important measure, which he was sorry to delay, but he thought it his duty to rescue that House from a most degrading species of slavery. The hon. Member went on to complain of his speeches, and the speeches of other Members, having been imperfectly and incorrectly reported in the newspapers. He therefore thought it his duty, as the reports had been this Session worse than ever they were before, to call the attention of the House to the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  continued. The Speaker had described the purpose of his (Mr. (O'Connell's) Motion in better language than he could have done. He should move, that W. I. Clement be called to the Bar of that House. He had also to complain of the proprietors of  The Times The Morning Chronicle 1243 The Morning Chronicle l The Morning Post The Morning Chronicle Times The Morning Chronicle
 Mr. O'Connell  said, be would so qualify his Motion as to defer the attendance to Monday. Beyond that he would not go. If the noble Lord would consent to the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the subject, he should not have any objection to the proposition. But he would not consent to be a victim without defending himself.
 Mr. Tennyson  hoped, that his hon. and learned friend would withdraw his Motion. The publishing of any report of the proceedings of that House was undoubtedly a technical breach of the privileges of that House; but to misreport was a grosser and more real breach of privilege. The total omission of any speeches, which was in fact garbling the report, did certainly place that House in a position quite different from that in which it ought to stand. There was but one opinion in the House—that such a practice ought to be discouraged; and that, if persisted in, some steps ought to be taken by the House to stop it. He perceived inconvenience in adopting the course proposed by his hon. and learned friend, and it did not appear to him calculated to correct the evil. He, therefore, hoped his hon. and learned friend would withdraw his Motion, and then the House would have time to consider what measures ought to be taken if the offence complained of should be repeated.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, that, as far as he had been able to observe of all the Members of that House, his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, had been the best treated in the reports of their proceedings which appeared in the newspapers. His hon. and learned friend had even been better treated, in comparison, than the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite. He regretted that his hon. and learned friend had made that attack, the consequence of which was, the hostility towards him of the individuals in question. Considering his hon. and learned friend as one of the main props of the interests of Ireland in that House, he should exceedingly regret any circumstance that would diminish his usefulness; and he requested him, in the name of the Irish people, to withdraw his Motion. If his hon. and learned friend should persevere, he would certainly vote against him. It appeared to him that, generally speaking, those who reported the proceedings, reported with great fairness; and he repeated that, if any one had been favoured by them, it was his hon. and learned friend.
 Lord John Russell  felt that great inconvenience would attend the carrying of the hon. and learned Member's Motion. Supposing the proprietors or the editors of these newspapers attended at the Bar of the House, and promised that in future the speeches of hon. Members should be fairly reported, was that House to dismiss them after a declaration made by them, that they would commit a breach of privilege? The course which he had generally taken in matters of privilege was, not to pronounce any decision upon them when they were noticed, for the first time, in the House; because he had always found, that in such cases the House was apt to come to a hasty and passionate judgment. He was therefore inclined on the present occasion to move the previous question. At the same time, without saying that he entirely agreed in what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he was bound to state, that those who were permitted by the indulgence of the House to report the proceedings, greatly abused the power they possessed if they deprived any individual of that advantage which he might fairly expect from his speeches going forth to the country. He recollected, that his noble and learned friend, the present Lord Chancellor having, when a Member of that House, let fall some expressions not personally agreeable to the reporters, the punishment inflicted on him was, the entire suppression of his speeches on questions of law, and foreign and domestic policy. This was undoubtedly an abuse of the power which the reporters possessed; but he thought, that the Motion of the hon. and learned Member would involve them in difficulties, from which they could not escape without loss of dignity. He should therefore be disposed to move the previous question, if he could do so consistently with the orders of the House; but at all events he could not accede to the proposed Motion.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  seconded the Motion. He stated that he had himself, by his literary labour, been greatly assisted in his progress to the station of independence in which he was at present placed; but he could not allow that, having been engaged in putting down despotism of other kinds, the House should submit to the spurious despotism which it was now attempted to exercise over its Members.
 1244
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  thought, that after the declaration which had been made a few days ago by the hon. and learned Member, that his speeches were ludicrously misreported, the reporters could not do otherwise than not report him in future. With respect to the published reports of their proceedings, his (Mr. Sanford's) impression was—and as he seldom spoke, and was but little reported, he might be supposed to speak with impartiality, that they were given with as much accuracy as could fairly be expected, and he did not think that the hon. and learned Member's present complaint, that he was not reported at all, consistent with the statement he had previously made of being misreported. In his opinion the House would do well to imitate the conduct of the other House with regard to reporters, and provide them a convenient place for taking notes.
 Mr. Briscoe , as an independent Member, referred to the Resolutions which had been sent out by the Government to the Colonies. These, he contended, were a matter between the Government and the Colonies. But still they referred to a time to be fixed by Parliament; and it was not fair to charge Government with running from their agreement under such circumstances.
 Mr. Poulter  was glad to find, that some concession had been made to public feeling; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman
 1242 "Cloy the hungry edge of appetite, By bare imagination of a feast."
 Mr. Warre  expressed his entire satisfaction at the general measure proposed by his Majesty's Ministers in the Bill before the House, and he was of opinion that, despite of some details to which objection might be taken, it would achieve the great object they all had in view, and give general satisfaction to the country. The proposition of his hon. and learned friend was such as ought to be well received by the House and the public; and he hoped there would be no opposition offered to it. With respect to some of the details of the Bill—the apprenticeship period for instance—he should say, that he did not fully concur in every particular; he thought the period of apprenticeship should be very much abridged, though he did not desire it should be confined within such small limits as those proposed by the hon. member for Weymouth. On that part of the Bill he had expected to have been enlightened as to the final views of the Government by the speech of the hon. member for Leeds last night, but he had to confess, now that the speech was made, he was, in point of information on that subject, just where that speech found him. It was agreed on all hands, that an intermediate or preparatory state was necessary previous to the complete manumission of those at present in slavery; the question, therefore, was, what was to be the term of that preparatory period? But supposing the period of preparation satisfactorily fixed, he wished to know what would become of the aged and infirm slaves during the apprenticeship? He wanted to be satisfied as to who was to maintain them, clothe them, lodge them, all that time, &c. This was a question which had not been put before, and which he much wished, for the sake of humanity, to hear answered now.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  protested against the alterations which were proposed. He could not but express his regret at those which had already taken place. At the same time he would do his best to help the Ministers out of their difficulties, and get the Bill through the House.
 Mr. Bernal  also acceded to the Motion, and related, by way of counterpoise to the statements of the hon. and learned Member (Dr. Lushington) the case of a valuable slave belonging to the late Mr. Beckford; who was sent to this country to be cured, at Mr. Beckford's expense of a chronic disease. Of course, on coming here, he became free, but he was restless, and desired to go back to Jamaica. He was sent back, and upon expressing a wish to carry on his own
 1238
 Dr. Lushington  said, that, before the House went into Committee, it was his duty to propose an instruction of which he had given notice—namely, "That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Slavery Abolition Bill, to insert in the said Bill a clause for the immediate emancipation, without restriction, of all slaves who may, at any time previous to the passing of this Bill, have been brought, with the consent of their possessors, or may, at any time after the passing of this Bill, with like consent, be brought into any part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland." He was the more urged to propose this Resolution by a case which had occurred relative to the delivery of a female slave in this country, and the subsequent enthralment of the child, as a slave, on arrival in the West-Indies. It was Lord Stowell who had decided the legality of such a procedure. He was compelled to admit, on the authority of Lord Stowell, that such was the state of the law, that if a slave, or the offspring of a slave, after enjoying the pride of freedom in Great Britain, should return to the colonies, he or she would again be thrown into slavery. Although, on such high authority, he was obliged to admit that such was the law, he could not but reprobate its abominable injustice. That was the last judgment of any public importance given by that learned Lord; and if there was anything in it which he (Dr. Lushington) could regret, besides the iniquity of the law which it asserted, it was the levity with which the learned Lord contradicted a decision formerly given, in a similar case, by Lord Mansfield. But, whatever was the state of the law, the learned Lord (Lord Stowell) himself was convinced of its injustice; and in the course of that judgment, he not once, but twice or thrice, expressed his wish that the Colonial Legislatures should apply to Parliament to interfere to prevent those outrages upon humanity; and, attached as the noble Lord was to slavery, he could not help reprobating the iniquity of the law in these cases. But no attention had been paid by the Colonial Legislatures to that
 1236 Free Press 1237
 Mr. Buxton  was quite convinced, that the present period, even after the modification which had just been announced, was too long. There was a strong apprehension that they would not have the cordial co-operation of the West-India body, and that was a strong argument against the granting of the whole Compensation Fund before the apprenticeship had terminated.
 Mr. Spring Rice  confessed, that it appeared to him desirable that the House should follow the advice given by his noble friend, and refrain from pronouncing an opinion on the case which had been brought under its notice; because the House could
 1248 1249
 The Speaker  said, that he understood the object of the hon. and learned Member's Motion to be to enforce the Standing Orders of the House, in consequence of the inaccuracy of the reports of their proceedings. If by sufferance such reports were published, it was a double breach of privilege to publish them incorrectly, and it was competent for any hon. Member to move the Standing Order for the exclusion of strangers on that or any other ground which he might think fit.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  rose to order. As the Standing Orders of the House did not recognize any reports of their proceedings, he thought the hon. and learned Member must be out of order in discussing such a subject.
 Sir Robert Inglis  assured the hon. Member (Mr. O'Dwyer), that he had not made use of the expression which the hon. Member had complained of; but at the same time, he could not understand why hon. Members from Ireland should be offended at its application. At least there was another part of the empire where no offence was taken at the title. In fact, men as gifted, high-minded, and as honourable as any persons in that House, or in the empire, had gloried in the title. As the attention of the House had been called to the manner in which their proceedings were reported, he begged to say, that he was perfectly astonished at the general accuracy with which the Debates were communicated to the public. Their fidelity might be considered extraordinary, even if time were allowed for their preparation; but when the expedition with which they were published was taken into account, the correctness with which they were given was more than extraordinary—it was almost marvellous. The proceedings of the House appeared to be taken down as it were instinctively, while they were published with a rapidity quite astonishing.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would vote for the Motion if he thought it would effect the object which the hon. and learned Member had in view—if it would tend to
 1250 1251 1252
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that considering the variety of topics discussed in that House, it appeared wonderful to him, not that the speeches were inaccurately reported, but that they were so well reported. If a full report of all the speeches spoken in that House were taken, no newspaper would be large enough to contain it. It was most important that the proceedings of that House should be as soon as possible communicated to the people, in order that they might know the votes which their Representatives had given, and the reasons which guided their conduct; and it was therefore desirable that no party feeling-should influence the reporters in the discharge of their duty. He thought, that that House would place itself in a most painful and disagreeable situation if, in consequence of summoning these parties to the Bar, they refused in future to sanction the publication of Debates. A more advisable course to adopt would be to exert the privilege of the House only when the speeches of hon. Members were misreported; and in such cases the Chair should be called upon to reprimand the parties guilty of the misrepresentation. He trusted the hon. and learned Member would not press his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had brought the question of a breach of privilege forward in a very extraordinary form. The technical reason assigned by the hon. and learned Gentleman for his Motion was, that the proceedings of Parliament were reported in the newspapers; but the real reason was, that the proceedings of Parliament were not reported in the newspapers. He (Lord Althorp) was sure that there was no Gentleman in that House who wished to do anything to prevent a fair and impartial report of the proceedings of that House from going into the country. He believed that, generally speaking, the reports of the proceedings in that House were given in a very fair manner. He did not speak from any extensive examination of them for his time would not allow him to do that: but, whenever he had seen any report of their proceedings, he generally found that they were very fairly reported. It certainly appeared to him, that it must be for the interest of those who reported the proceedings, to report them fairly. As it must, of course, be the wish of the public to receive a fair and impartial report, he could not think that the reporters could find it their interest to depart from fairness and impartiality. Upon this subject he could not help observing, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin was experiencing a little of the effect of what he formerly called "passive resistance." With respect to the reports of the debates, no man could wish them to be discontinued; and every man must wish that they should be fairly and impartially given. As to the proposition made by the hon. and learned Member, he (Lord Althorp) did not think that it was one to which it was advisable to accede. He thought that the expression of opinion in that House, that the power exercised by those who reported the proceedings should
 1245
 Lord Althorp  said, the utmost limit he could go to as a Minister, in limiting the term of apprenticeship, was that then stated by his right hon. friend.
 Lord Althorp  said, the noble Lord seemed to think, that Ministers ought to have
 1241
 Lord Althorp  said, the sense of the House had already been taken upon that point, when the principle had been rejected. Undoubtedly, although Government were anxious to disarm the opposition and gain the assent of the noble Lord to other parts of the Bill, they could not for that purpose abandon what they considered the only just and right course which the House had already determined on.
 Lord Howick  was pleased by the concession which Government had made, but at the same time he was not quite satisfied. He wished the right hon. Gentleman to push his concession a little further; and although there were a variety of provisions in the Bill which he decidedly objected to, he would in that case decline entering his opposition. He was anxious that the grant, whatever its amount might be, which the country was to give to the West-India proprietors by way of compensation, should not, as to one-half, become payable in any colony, until complete personal freedom had been obtained by all the slaves—in short, that one-half of the sum should be reserved till the period of apprenticeship had been fulfilled.
 Lord Sandon  complained, that a direct
 1240
 Lord Sandon  wished to give his right hon. Friend every assistance in carrying this measure to a safe issue; but complained, that Ministers had yielded to popular clamour, and not to the opinion of the House; for he did not think the division of last night compelled them to make this alteration. He would not hold his right hon. friend bound in the manner stated; but was sorry for the alteration he proposed.
 Lord Sandon  reminded the hon. Member, that the sum was only to be granted when the measure became law. If the plan did not take effect, the sum would not be granted.
 Lord Stormont  was at a loss to know with what view the hon. and learned member for Dublin wished to call the parties in question to the Bar. It must be either to punish them for the offence of publishing the proceedings of that House—a proposition which could hardly be made; or to dismiss them untouched. That was the situation in which the Motion would place the House. The individuals in question were to be brought up upon a breach of privilege, which breach of privilege was publishing the proceedings in that House and then the charge that was to be made
 1246
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to complain of a breach of privilege in a letter in  The Times The Times
 Mr. O'Connell  then proceeded to detail the cases which referred to two speeches—one of his own, and one of Mr. Hunt's, A speech of his on the Irish Poor Laws, had soon after been summed up in eighteen lines and a-half by the same reporter; and if it had not been for  The Morning Post 7 The Times
 Mr. O'Connell  was ready to dispense with the lady's attendance.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, he felt great objections at all times to the exercise of the privilege which the Members of that House possessed of calling any individual to the Bar to account for his conduct, and particularly in cases such as that under consideration. The power which the House possessed was so great, that he was anxious to see it exercised as little as possible, and with the greatest caution. He should certainly have opposed the Motion made yesterday, and he was about to offer himself to the notice of the House, when he was prevented by the judicious withdrawal of the Motion by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. But the question before them was totally different from the question before the
 12
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to call the attention of the House to another breach of privilege. The Report of the Committee appointed to try the merits of the return for the borough of Warwick implicated a nobleman, the Lord-lieutenant of the county, in a breach of their privileges. He wished to inquire what course his Majesty's Government intended to pursue in relation to this transaction?
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that before the Order of the Day was read, he wished to make a proposition to the House, His proposal would be simply to consolidate the law as it at present existed. He would propose, therefore, with a view to the convenience of the Customs, merchants, and the trade generally, for the purpose of bringing into one Act of Parliament, that which was now contained in a great many Acts of Parliament, to consolidate simply the law as it stood at present, and not to make any alteration whatever. If the House should concur in this view of the question, he could pledge himself, as far as he was able, upon the authority of the legal gentlemen who had drawn up those Bills, that there should be in substance no alteration whatever—that with respect to the nine Bills it would be a simple and pure consolidation, without any change. If the House adopted his view, he was prepared to go on with those Bills; but if the House should not agree to that proposal, but be of opinion, contrary to former practice, and contrary to the experience of former times, that it was right to take the opportunity of a consolidation to make changes in the law, it was perfectly obvious that it would be utterly impossible for him to proceed with the Bills; and he should best suit the views of the House, and consult its convenience, by entirely withdrawing them. If Gentle-
 6 pro formâ
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose to present a Petition from the India Company against certain clauses of the Bill, which materially affected their interest. The Petition had been agreed to at a meeting of the proprietors held this day. This might be a matter of perfect indifference to hon. Members; he believed the House and the Press regarded it with equal indifference; but he expected that Members would give that attention which they were bound to give to petitions presented to that House. In the unanimous judgment of the petitioners, who were charged with the Government of India, and all the responsibility of that government, the change in the local governments would cause such an alteration in the constitutional administration of India as to transfer to the Governor General all control, while all responsibility would rest with them. They complained also, that the proposed increase of the Ecclesiastical Establishment would cause an additional expense of 60,000 rupees a-year. These matters were forcibly stated in the petition, but owing to the impati-
 15 l
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Amendment. The Company were parties to the Bill, and their interests were materially affected by it. Nothing could be more reasonable, therefore, than that they should have an opportunity of stating their objections to particular parts of it. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would have no objection to Counsel being heard.
 Mr. Wilks  said, it would be inconvenient if Counsel were to attend on every occasion to support particular principles or private interests; but where such extensive interests were at stake, he considered it only fair to the proprietary that they should be allowed to state their objections to a measure by which their property was to be affected.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that if he could agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that those great interests would sustain any injury if this Motion were not agreed to, or with his hon. and learned friend, and the hon. member for Middlesex, that by acceding to it the question might be discussed upon any new grounds which had not yet been brought forward, and that it was essential
 16
 Mr. Buckingham  contended, that it would be more wise to agree to the Amendment, for should the Company reject the Bill upon just grounds the labours of the Parliament would have been thrown away.
 Mr. Macaulay  opposed the Amendment. The fund holder might as well petition to be heard against any particular Act, because, in his opinion, it affected the national credit, and therefore, injured his security. Besides, the petition ought to have been presented before.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, he thought the Company was to be regarded not merely as a contracting party, but as the body to whom the Parliament were again about to delegate the government of India. Surely, then, such a body ought to be heard upon such a subject, and the House ought not rashly to reject the Amendment.
 Colonel Evans  said, the question was not one of right, but of expediency. He supported the Amendment.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , in reply, contended, that the Company could not have petitioned before. His right hon. friend (Mr. Grant) had given no reason for the rejection of his Amendment, and he should, therefore, take the sense of the House. He was greatly astonished at what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Leeds. That hon. and learned Member had compared the East-India Company with fundholders petitioning against a measure they conceived injurious to the national credit. There was no truth in the simile. The East-India Company were to be the governors of India, and they declared that the provisions of the Bill, under which they were to govern, were highly injurious. Hitherto he had spoken as a Member only, and not as a Director, and had advocated points the body of the Directors deemed injurious; but they ought to be heard.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he would avail himself of that opportunity to make some few observations on particular branches of the general question, which an unwillingness to intrude at an earlier stage prevented him doing. With any remarks upon the general question, as to how far the alterations which the Bill established were expedient, or otherwise, he would not trouble the House, because he felt they could not now affect the measure; and as they could not affect it, he was unwilling to take up more of the time of the House than a sense of what was due to himself demanded. The first part to which he would advert was the question as to the abolition of slavery in India. That was a question which he need not characterize as of the highest interest to the people of England, and of the deepest and most vital importance to the general interest of the Indian population. Such being the case, it was with regret, not free from alarm, that he found in the Bill no exposition, not even a general one, of the nature of the system by which it was intended that the abolition of that slavery should be effected. Not only was the subject excluded from the details of the Bill, but the House had been called upon by Government to assert the principle that slavery should be abolished, without the smallest clue to the machinery by which that end was to be attained being afforded them. Some idea of it might perhaps be collected from the information on the Table of the House; but it was not every
 18 19 entrepôt 20 21 22 Amhersl
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he had watched the progress of this great measure with the most minute attention, during every stage and in every detail; and he regretted to be still obliged to state that all his original objections to the Bill remained in full force. He had listened with attention to all the arguments adduced in favour, or rather in palliation, of many of the objectionable parts of the Bill, but he had heard nothing to justify them; and as the time had now arrived, when, passing from the details to the general principle, it was consistent with the forms of the House, on the Motion for the third reading of the Bill, to review it as a whole, he would avail himself of that opportunity to state the grounds of his objections to the principle features of the Bill, and of his approbation of those few parts of it, in the justice of which he fully concurred. His first and greatest objection to the Bill was, because it confided the political government of an immense empire, to the
 23 24 25 l l 26 l l l s l l l Habeas Corpus 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36
 Mr. Hume  expressed his regret at the absence of proper provisions relating to the administration of justice. If it was desired to make the natives attached to the Government of this country, there ought to be a provision for allowing them to sit in the Councils of India. There ought, at least, to be one native in each of those Councils. Most of all he regretted that the Bill did not communicate to the natives the right of sitting upon Juries, a circumstance that would materially tend to elevate the national character. They were as well entitled to that as the people of Ceylon. The documents already on the table showed the great improvement among the natives of Ceylon, in consequence of the beneficial change which had been made there; and as one proof of it, he would mention that, within three years, the inhabitants had volunteered the abolition of slavery. At one period, the right of sitting upon Juries was given in Madras—he alluded to the administration of Sir Thomas Munroe; and he was sorry to add, that, on the arrival of Mr. Lushington, the natives were deprived of the privilege, on the sole authority of the Governor. In order to put this matter in a clear light, he would move, in a few days, for Copies of the Minutes of the Presidency of Madras. He hoped that the Board of Control would use its utmost in influence and best endeavours to advance and elevate the character of the native Indians, and to communicate to
 37
 Mr. George F. Young  could not allow the Bill to pass without a few parting remarks, though not upon the general policy of the measure. He was altogether opposed to the East-India Monopoly, but, at the same time, he was desirous that as little injury as possible should be done to existing interests. He thought that some degree of precipitancy bad been shown in the formation of the Bill, as far as regarded particularly the trade to China, and he complained of an arrangement made by the Directors, under the sanction of the Board of Control, by which none of the ships belonging to the East-India Company were to be fitted out and employed this season. The consequence was, that the workmen had been already discharged from two great establishments connected with the East-India shipping. He contended, that this step ought to have been taken more gradually, so that such deep and sudden injury should not have been done. At the expiration of the Charter, it ought to be recollected, that not less than sixty millions of pounds of tea would be thrown upon the hands of Government; and how they were to proceed under such circumstances he could not foresee. He even yet hoped, that some modifications might be introduced, and that everything would be done to prevent the measure being carried into effect with unnecessary and impolitic haste.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  said, that much had already been done, by internal regulations in India, to fit the natives for the enjoyment of those privileges which the hon. member for Middlesex was anxious to see too suddenly communicated to them, and to prepare the way for the abolition of domestic slavery. He vindicated the framers and supporters of the Bill from the charge of precipitation, and read the extract of a letter from an officer of a ship, to show the anxious desire of the natives of China to carry on private trade, independent of the East-India Company. He justified the present system of Government in India, on account of its cheapness and responsibility; and, with regard to taxation, every anxiety existed to vender the taxation of India as light as possible. Measures were at present both in progress and operation for that purpose.
 Mr. Frederick G. Howard  enforced the
 38
 Mr. Wynn  did not remember any Bill occupying so much time, and on so important a subject, which had excited so little attention, and created so little interest. He had an objection to the present number of Directors. He thought that in future only eleven should be appointed, and that any reason for continuing them at twenty-four would no longer exist, when the Bill should have become law. At all events nothing ought to be introduced into it which would pledge Parliament to the maintenance of the present number. He should also move, in the next stage, for the omission of the words in the Bill relating to the College of Haileybury, with a view to the substitution of an amendment, the nature of which he had already stated, and which referred to the election of candidates. A clause, providing that a certain number of cadetships should be given annually to the sons of old or wounded officers, he should move as a rider to the Bill. He objected to that part of the measure which rendered it necessary for the subordinate Governments to have the sanction of the Government of Bengal to any alteration, however trifling. He remarked, respecting the communications of the Directors with India, that they were not always to be taken to represent the opinions of that body, as paragraphs were sometimes inserted, even in opposition to the wishes of the Court.
 Mr. Todd  could not allow the Bill to pass without contending for the necessity of admitting East-India sugar and other East-India produce into this country, without those restrictive duties, which, at present, were as injurious to our East-India subjects, as they were injurious to the trader of this country. He would ask, whether it was not sufficient to derive a revenue of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  expressed himself greatly dissatisfied with many of the provisions of the Bill. He objected to that part which gave no opportunity to the Court of Directors of laying before Parliament, when the Board of Control differed from them, their reasons for the course they proposed to adopt.
 Mr. Macaulay  said, they had the opportunity of doing so by petition.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  contended that they ought to have that opportunity without the necessity of resorting to the humiliating mode of petition. He also objected to the system proposed, with respect to the other presidencies being made dependent on that of Bengal. He likewise was opposed to the clause relating to slavery, which, he felt, would be productive of injurious effects. Indeed, that system could be scarcely called one of slavery, which was domestic servitude of the mildest kind. Another part of the Bill to which he objected was that which gave to the Governor-General the power of making regulations for courts of justice in India, by which the Governor might emancipate himself, on any occasion, from their jurisdiction. He should prefer the jurisdiction of the supreme Courts to that of the chartered Courts. The people of India would prefer those Courts in which they had enjoyed the protection of British law. But, by the power given to the Governor General, the benefits of these Courts might be taken away, and the Trial by Jury and the liberty of the Press; in fact, every protection the British inhabitants of India had hitherto enjoyed, might be abrogated;—the law of inheritance might be changed. This, he contended, was a power too great to be given to any Governor General, with his five councillors. He did not say it would be so used, but they ought to guard against the possibility of it. It was extremely unjust to the presidencies of Madras and Bombay, that they should thus be deprived, or incur the risk of being deprived, of the protection of British law. He also objected to that part of the Bill which continued the establishment of Haileybury College. He thought an equally good or better system of preparation for employment in the Company's service might be had at private seminaries. The next part to which he objected was, the reduction of the number of Directors, which would tend to destroy the independence of that body. As to
 40
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  admitted, that the Bill had been greatly improved in the committee, but there were still great objections to many parts of it. He hoped that the power of settlement in the older provinces would be extended to all parts of the Indian continent. He concurred with the hon. Member, in strongly objecting to that part of the Bill which subjected the Supreme Courts of Justice to the control of the Governor General. Where the government was so absolute as that of India, there should be two or three places where the rule of law should be superior to the rule of government. As the Bill now stood, it would tend to make the law as despotic as the government itself. He could not but regret that the political power of the Company had not been limited to ten years instead of twenty: at the end of ten years the subject might be re-opened, not only without injury, but with great benefit; but as the Bill stood at present, the re-opening of the question was precluded. The part of the Bill to which he most strongly objected was that of protecting duties on East-India sugar. It was most monstrous and unjust to the people of India and of England, and he was surprised that such a principle should be adopted by a Government professing otherwise such wise and liberal doctrines on the subject of commerce. He could not look upon it in any other light than that of an odious tyranny, which restricted the industry of the cultivators of India, and gave a great check to the manufacturing energies of England; and he hoped, that before long, the House and the country would see the necessity of adopting a more just and liberal policy.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson , referring to what had fallen from his hon. friend (Mr. W. Whitmore), said, that he did not find many articles in which there was any great difference in the duties between the produce of the East Indies and that of other places. The chief articles in which
 41
 Mr. Ewart  was glad to hear such declarations as had been made by the right hon. Gentleman, which he thought were worthy of a wise and liberal Government, He conceived, that it would be
 42
 Mr. Charles Grant  would not at that hour enter into any general consideration of points which had already been so fully discussed. Referring to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Inglis) on the subject of the China trade, he would repeat what he had stated on his first introduction of this measure to the House—that, though there was a great repugnance on the part of the Chinese authorities to permit foreign trade, there was a disposition on the part of the people of that country to embark in it—a disposition so strong, that the Chinese authorities themselves found it impossible to control it, and therefore, without sanctioning it openly, they were obliged greatly to relax the operations of the laws against it. This was proved by the great extent of the trade with India, the eastern islands, and particularly the country trade, in which they were the successful rivals of the British. The authorities of China had, in fact, come to the determination of admitting instead of prohibiting goods. In the case of opium the Emperor having sent a despatch to the Viceroy of Canton to take measures to prevent the importation of that drug, received for answer from that officer, that he had upon experiment found it impossible to do so. It was impossible not to admit, that China and the eastern islands would share the common impulse which would be given to India by the new arrangements, without making any specific efforts for that object. It had been objected to the Bill, that the name of the natives had not been introduced into it. The answer to this charge was, that every part of the Bill was favourable to the interests of the natives. The very admission of Europeans was calculated to have a favourable effect on the native population of India. For the sake of the native population, also, that great principle was advanced, of establishing a similar code of laws for both them and the Europeans. Never would he admit, that the interests of the natives did not form one of the objects of the measure,
 43
 Mr. Wynn  rose to propose a clause as a rider to the Bill, on the subject of the patronage which was to be vested by the Act in the Court of Directors. This, in his mind, was an exceedingly improper state in which to place the whole of the enormous patronage of so great an empire; and he hoped the House would be of opinion, that a certain proportion of it should be reserved as a fund, as it were, from whence the sons of as brave and gallant a set of men might obtain appointments (he meant the officers of the Indian army), many of whom were continually, either by climate or by wounds, dropping off, and leaving their families comparatively unprovided for. He felt there was a strong ground of appeal both to their justice and their humanity. Indeed, such were the expenses of a return to Europe in those cases, that it was difficult even for the widow of a field officer deceased in India, to ensure the return of herself and orphan family. With a great respect, therefore, for the Directors themselves, he was prepared to move a clause, that a certain portion of the cadetships of that army should be placed apart for this purpose. The Directors were, of course, not disposed to remunerate the services of individuals, however meritorious, in a public view, out of their own private patronage. Nor was this an unnatural feeling on their part; as the patronage was given to them by virtue of their property. The right hon. Gentleman proceeded to state some cases in which the widows of most universally meritorious officers, on applying for a cadetship for their sons, received for answer, that they had no fund of patronage for that purpose, and that they themselves considered the services of such officers amply remunerated by their pay and allowances, though it were true they had fought, bled, and fallen in the service. The mode he would not attempt to point out for the distribution of this patronage, though he thought it might safely be left in the hands of the Governor-general, or of the Commander-in-chief, and that it should be fixed in amount at one-fourth of the whole number of cadetships granted to the Indian army. The right hon.
 44
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  Would not at the present moment enter into a discussion of the expediency of the Motion, but only rose to state what the Court of Directors had really done with regard to these appointments. The number of cadets appointed during the last twenty-one years was 5,092; and of these he believed a very large proportion were the sons of meritorious officers, 409 were the sons of civil officers, 411 were the sons of military officers, 124 the sons of maritime officers, 308 the sons of clergymen, and 1,018 orphans.
 Mr. Charles Grant  thought, that a case sufficiently strong had not been made out to warrant the interference with the management of the appointments by the Court of Directors.
 Mr. Wynn  would persist in pressing his Motion, because he wished it to stand on the Journals of the House.
 Mr. Sheil  rose to propose a clause for making due provision in India for the Roman Catholic and other Churches dissenting from the Protestant Establishment, regard being had to the population of the various districts. He was one of those who were of opinion, that the wisest course would have been, hot to make provision for any Ecclesiastical Establishment in India whatever. The Company had objected to any extension of the hierarchy. Those points, however, having been disposed of, it was for the House now to consider whether it would not be expedient to place all forms of worship equally under the protection of Government. By the existing Act on the subject, provision was made for a Church Establishment in India, without stating whether that Establishment should be of the English Church alone, or not. The present Bill extended the hierarchy. An hon. member for Scotland then called on his Majesty's Government to introduce a statutory provision for the protection of the Scottish Church in India. The President of the Board of Trade gave that hon. Gentleman an assurance that a statutory provision
 45
 Mr. Lynch  did not think it advisable to encourage more than one establishment; but, that if any other than the Protestant Established Church were protected, that protection should not be exclusively confined to the English and Scotch Churches. The Catholic Establishment in Ireland had operated injuriously in retarding the spread of Protestantism, and he feared, that to encourage a similar establishment
 46
 Mr. Charles Grant  objected to the hon. Gentleman's clause. It was rather remarkable that, after the strong denunciations made by the hon. and learned Gentleman against imposing any additional load upon the Indians for the support of any other religion, the hon. and learned Gentleman, notwithstanding, now strongly urged the imposition of a still further amount of taxation for the support of the Roman Catholic Church. The alteration which he had suggested was not with a view to establish any Ecclesiastical domination in India, but with a much higher and general view. Besides, the clause of the hon. and learned Gentleman could hardly be admitted, as being too general and indefinite in its nature, for it proposed that "all forms of worship should be equally under the protection of Government, and that due provision should be made for the maintenance of Churches dissenting from the Protestant Episcopal Church." This would bring under the protection of Government, not merely Christian forms of worship, but every description of religion, even the idolatrous creed of the Heathen sects, many of which were such, as, so far from calling for the protection of Government, loudly called for the most strenuous efforts to suppress them, such as those where human victims were sacrificed. The hon. and learned Gentleman, too, had rather exaggerated the extent of the Catholic population. It would be the pride of the Protestant religion to make converts by the superior tone of its morality, and by the example given by its profession. The country might rest assured, however, that it was the desire and intention of Government to afford protection to all classes; and to make this apparent, he would propose to add as a proviso, that nothing in the Bill should be held to prevent the Governor of India in Council from advancing a sum of money for providing instruction for Christians of all classes, or from withholding due protection to all classes.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought the clause too indefinite. He had no objection to the clause proposed by an hon. and learned
 47
 Mr. Finch  could not refrain from expressing his deep regret at the proposition which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Grant) just announced his intention of moving—a proposition which he trusted would receive the marked disapprobation of the country. By the doctrines of the Romish Church the Protestant religion was declared heretic, and by the articles of the Protestant Church the Roman Catholic faith was pronounced blasphemous. Let any one who thought otherwise state his reasons for so thinking, and he (Mr. Finch) would support his assertion in contradiction. By the 39th article of the Protestant Church the sacrifice of the mass was declared blasphemous and idolatrous. Any person who proposed to vote for the maintenance of two religions, the doctrines of which were at direct variance, was guilty of the most absurd inconsistency.
 Mr. Sheil , not wishing to excite any difference of opinion, would, on the understanding that the proviso mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, should be brought forward, and with the permission of the House, withdraw his clause.
 Sir Robert Inglis  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Robert Grant  opposed the Motion, as it would not effect the object of the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Charles Grant  then proposed, a proviso relative to the expenses of the Episcopal Establishment in India.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that care should be taken that the expenses of the new Bishops in India, should not exceed, by more than 20,000 sicca rupees, those of the present establishment.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought, that the Bishops in India should be placed, at least, on a level with the puisne Judges in point of income. So far from thinking the proposed sum too large, he should say it was rather too small.
 Mr. Hume  did not think that the compelling Hindoos and Mussulmans to pay for these establishments, was the way to promote Christianity in India. He merely wished for a pledge that the expenses for this purpose on the revenue of India should not exceed 11,000 l
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, he had shaped his proviso so as to meet, he was sure, the views of Gentlemen opposite. The right hon. Gentleman then read the proviso to the 19th clause, to the following effect:—"Provided always, that the whole expenses of the Bishops and Archdeacons in India, shall not exceed 120,000 sicca rupees per annum, including their visitations."
 Mr. Charles Grant  then proposed a proviso to the 99th clause, to this effect:—"Provided always, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the Governor-General in Council from granting from time to time, with the sanction of the Court of Directors, to any sect, persuasion, or community of Christians, not being of the United Church of England and Ireland, or of the Church of Scotland, such sums of money as may be expedient for the purpose of instruction, or for the maintenance of places of worship."
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, he must oppose the proviso. The hon. member for
 49 l
 Sir Robert Inglis  cordially concurred in the objection to the clause.
 Mr. Robert Gordon  expressed his surprise, that after they had been engaged for so many years in promoting the cause of religious as well as civil liberty, any Member of that House could be found to second the hon. Member's objection.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, he was willing to share in any obloquy which might attach to those who opposed it.
 Mr. Pease  said, that the voluntary exertions of individuals was sufficient to spread Christianity in India; and he thought it extraordinary that persons should be so anxious to put their hands in the national purse of Hindostan, to support their own religion.
 Mr. Robert Grant  was desirous that the
 50
 Mr. George F. Young  suggested that it would be much better to proceed first with those Bills upon which no question could arise; but, with respect to the Registry of Vessels Bill he had great objections to it, as very pernicious in principle.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  put it to the hon. member for Dublin, if he could be serious in that part of his Motion which related to Mrs. Brodie. Mrs. Brodie was a most amiable and estimable lady, the widow of a clergyman, and deservedly beloved and
 9
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, not on the grounds which had been taken by the hon. and learned Mover, but that they might have the matter fully before them. He had frequently stated his opinions and wishes upon the subject. There were great occasions when the proceedings of the House were given exceedingly well; but there were many others when they were more neglected. It was extremely desirable that their constituents should not be deceived by erroneous statements. While persons were allowed to report what passed in that House, they were bound not to withhold the statements of any one Member. They might exercise their own discretion as to giving more or less of the arguments on any question, but they were not warranted in withholding the arguments of one Member, and in giving the arguments of another on the opposite side of the question. He had witnessed things of that kind with great regret; but he had always been of opinion, that the matter would find its own natural level in the estimation of public opinion. The noble Lord opposite (Althorp) would recollect that he had pressed on him the propriety of putting an end to that species of domination which now assumed a particular character, and which took upon itself to declare, that it would report so much of what took place and no more. He submitted to the noble Lord, that no one act of the Government was of more importance to the public than removing
 8 The Times
 Mr. Hume  coincided in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, except that it might be necessary for some Members who were practically acquainted with the subject, to draw the attention of the Government to some particular points. But, as regarded the Customs' Duties Bill, it was intended to make some very important alterations, and he would rather forego the discussion upon the others in order to discuss the latter Bill, which would take up a considerable time.
 Mr. Methuen  objected to entering into any statements relative to an individual.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that a resolution having been come to by a certain portion of the Press, that the speeches of a certain Member should not be reported, he really thought that the House could not pass over such a circumstance without notice. Before he proceeded further, he must say, that he could not concur in the charge which had been brought against the Press of not publishing accurate accounts of the speeches delivered in that House. On the contrary, he agreed with those who had borne testimony to the generally admirable manner in which the debates were reported. It frequently happened that Gentlemen did not think themselves sufficiently reported when they spoke upon subjects upon which public attention was not fixed. The newspapers, however, could not report every thing which was said in that House: it noticed only those questions which excited public interest; and when the reports were not given at length, they were in general succinctly and truly given. He admitted, that many questions were passed over without any notice at all; but he did not complain of that, nor did he quarrel with the reporters that they did not always give a full representation of the speeches spoken by Members of that House. It should always be born in mind, that hon. Members were extremely bad judges of the merits of their own speeches; and if they expected to find their speeches read admirably in the newspapers, they were likely to meet with frequent disappointments. But was it possible for the House to pass unnoticed the declaration made by the reporters for  The Times 11
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that he thought he might fairly go the length of declaring that it was more than questionable whether the privileges of that House had been really violated by the particular circumstance of which the hon. and learned Member complained. He was but a young-Member of the House, and if he were
 10
 Mr. O'Reilly  recommended the hon. and learned Member to withdraw the other part of his Motion. He really thought that a Motion founded on a breach of privilege ought not to be made by a man who could not come into court with clean hands. The charge brought against the Press in the present instance was, that every thing which the hon. and learned Member had chosen to say had not been reported; and the hon. and learned Member contended, that it was only due to the public, and to the Members of that House, that a fair report of what had occurred there should be published. Could the hon. and learned Member say, that he himself stood clear of the charge of having misrepresented, through the medium of the Press, the speeches of Members of that House, and of the proceedings which took place within its walls? Could the hon. and learned member for Dublin stand up, and declare with truth that he had not written letters?
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member to order. He conceived that the hon. Member did not distinctly comprehend the nature of the question before the House. It related to a matter which was indisputably a breach of the privileges of that House, and could not be affected by the fact that those privileges had also been violated by other publications of the proceedings of the House. The observation of the hon. Member had no connexion with the question whether or not certain parties should be called to the Bar, and therefore the hon. Member was out of order.
 The Speaker  observed, that in cases of Breach of Privilege, greater latitude was allowed to hon. Members than in other cases.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the transactions which took place at the Warwick election, did certainly contain charges of a serious nature as affecting the privileges of that House; but before he stated what course the Government had pursued upon the subject, he was anxious to correct a misapprehension which existed in the public mind with respect to the conduct pursued by Government in regard to Lords-lieutenant of counties. It was known that Government had frequently been accused of allowing noblemen and gentlemen to remain in the situation of Lords-lieutenant of counties, whose political opinions and conduct differed materially from their own. As far as his recollection went, the office of a Lord-lieutenant of a county had never been considered as a political office, and persons in that situation were not appointed solely in reference to their political opinions, nor removed generally in consequence of their political conduct. He knew there were exceptions to this rule. Two instances had occurred in his time, and one or two before, of Lords-lieutenant having been removed for their political conduct; but he appealed to those with whom he had always acted, whether they did not express their strongest disapprobation of the course which the Government pursued in those
 14
 Lord Althorp  said, that when the hon. and learned Member brought this subject under the notice of the House yesterday, he (Lord Althorp) stated that he thought it one which ought to be passed over unnoticed; but he must admit, that he had also added, that in his opinion it was essential for the interest of the public that the debates in that House should, as far as possible, be impartially reported. He confessed that, in common with his hon. friend, he regretted the course pursued by the hon. and learned Member; and he thought it was likely to lead the House into considerable difficulty. But he must also admit, that if the hon. and learned Member was determined to persevere in his Motion, it was hardly possible—it was impossible—for the House, consistently
 13
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  said, the proposition of the noble Lord would subject the planters to an additional charge "of 3,000,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, he did not precisely know the meaning of the hon. Member. If it was to ask whether the Government intended to give full effect to the establishment of civil and religious liberty, he would answer, yes, such were the intentions of Government; and he believed that one clause in the Bill established the same law in the colonies as in England. When that clause was under consideration would be the proper time for introducing any Amendment.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  did not think the right hon. Secretary had fully answered the question of the hon. Member, and trusted that that hon. Member would take another opportunity of pressing his views, by proposing an additional clause. He could not agree with that part of the Bill which put education under the care of the Colonial Legislatures. He would as soon have left the legislation upon the Irish Coercion Bill to the Whitefeet, as agree to leave the Local Assemblies to regulate the religious education of the slaves.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that it was intended to amend clause 12, by adding, that the slave should not be employed more than forty-live hours each week, and that the time for cultivating his provision ground should not be deducted from his weekly but annual time.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  thought, by carrying into effect the Amendment of the noble Lord, a gross breach of justice would be committed, and Parliament would be taking to itself a power which it never ought to exercise.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that was precisely what the clause would effect If the negro worked for his master more than the 45 hours in crop time, the latter would be bound to pay for the extra labour.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the Amendment. He was glad to find, that the House had thrown off the hypocrisy of apprenticeships, when speaking of the negroes under the changed circumstances which this Bill proposed to create. They now talked of slaves, when speaking of the blacks in their new condition, and not as they had hypocritically done for some days, of apprentices. The truth was, that they would still be slaves, and he was, therefore, glad that the House had thrown off its hypocrisy, and called them by their right name. As to what the hon. member for Carlisle had said of  The Anti-Slavery Reporter The Anti-Slavery Reporter 66 l l s d s d s d s d
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that giving the apprentices 6 d d
 Lord Hawick  suggested, that the allowances to slaves should be equalised in all the colonies. There at present existed
 67
 Mr. O'Connell , after observing that his object was not to punish the printer, but to get at the proprietors, moved that the Order of the Day for the attendance at the Bar of John Joseph Lawson, and James William Lawson, be read.
 Mr. Methuen  rose for the purpose of moving, that the said Order be discharged. In taking this step, he was not actuated by any feeling of disrespect towards the hon. and learned member for Dublin, He had no doubt that the hon. and learned Member thought, that he was doing his duty in the course which he had pursued and was pursuing; but he (Mr. Methuen) also had a duty to perform as a Member of that House; and he felt most conscientiously, that he was called upon in the discharge of that duty, to object to the House being placed in a situation which might, perhaps, prove to be one of great difficulty; a situation which the House had always avoided to be placed in, whenever it was possible to avoid it; and which, he hoped, they would always continue to avoid, unless circumstances of an imperative nature should require them to dootherwise. Undoubtedly he did not think that they were at all called upon, on the present occasion, to place themselves in
 68 "——'tls excellent To have a giant's strength; But tyrannous to use it like a giant." 69 The Tralee Mercury 70
 Mr. Robinson  had great pleasure in seconding the Motion for the discharge of the Order of the Day. He agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that, whatever might be the case at present, this dispute originated in an occurrence with which that House was in no way connected, and which in no way involved any of their privileges. Without, therefore, vindicating in the slightest manlier the course which had been pursued by the Reporters, he was perfectly prepared to say, that in his opinion the House would take a very unwise course, if it were prevailed upon to adopt the proposition made to it by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. It was the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman to call the proprietors of one of the London newspapers to the Bar, for reporting the proceedings of that House. It was impossible for him (Mr. Robinson) to deny that that was a breach of privilege. But he begged to ask the hon. and learned member for Dublin with what propriety he could proceed to punish the proprietors of one of the papers, without following up that proceeding by calling all the proprietors of all the papers to the Bar, for they were all equally guilty? He knew that the House had occasionally pursued the course recommended by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He believed that the last time at which a question of this sort had been brought before the House was in 1771, when the House was prevailed upon to summon the printer and
 71 72
 Mr. O'Connell  had heard the speech of the hon. member for Wiltshire with very considerable surprise. When he commenced the controversy he had complained that the reports of the present Session were to his own knowledge exceedingly defective, and to his knowledge also designedly false; and then the kindness of the hon. Member induced him to applaud him [" No, no from Mr. Methuen
 Mr. Methuen  declared he had said no such thing.
 Mr. O'Connell  had thought that was the case. The hon. Member had, however, said he (Mr. O'Connell) had some control over the  Tralee Mercury
 Mr. Methuen : I declare I did not say so. I said—but I am in the recollection of the House, and will not repeat it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had heard the hon. Member say so, if the House did not. But the  Tralee Mercury
 Mr. Methuen  observed, that what he had said was, that the hon. and learned Member's speeches were reported in that paper and not the speeches of his opponents.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, with respect to the three Dublin papers, only one of them had a reporter in London, and that paper was opposed to him. As for himself he should be glad to see all he said published, if it were but done fairly. The hon. Member said truly, that none spoke more in favour of liberty than he did. It was because he had liberty in his heart. But there was a despotism and a tyranny exercised towards this House, and on the part of hon. Members there was a shrinking which he was sorry to see. It was because he hated despotism that he was determined to persevere, and he would persevere, until the present privileges of the House were so
 73 The Times 74 The Times
 Colonel Evans  said, that on several occasions he had found it necessary to differ from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and the present occasion was one of that number. He was surprised that the hon. and learned Member should place so humble an estimate upon his own character in this matter. He recollected having once heard a friend of his make use of a very strong assertion respecting the hon. and learned member for Dublin—he had said, that he conceived, that the hon. and learned Member had rendered more signal services to his country than the King, Lords, and Commons. Now, he never saw an occasion on which a Gentleman had so far forgotten the situation which he held in the estimation of his fellow countrymen as the hon. and learned Gentleman had just done. When the hon. and learned Gentleman placed himself in opposition to the reporters, he surely could not have looked back upon his own career; a character like his was not at the mercy of the reporters. Gentlemen of character inferior to that of the hon. and learned Member were not at their mercy. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed greatly to overrate the power and influence of the newspapers. The power and influence of a newspaper consisted in its fidelity and accuracy of information, and even  The Times 75 The Times Morning Chronicle 76
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the hon. and learned member for Dublin had placed himself and the House in a false position, for he had forgotten that the Members sat there under the fiction, that nobody saw them—nobody heard them there. The complaint here was, not that the printers of  The Times 77 reluctantes dracones The Times The Times 78
 Mr. O'Connell : Yes; a deliberate falsehood.
 Sir Robert Inglis : Well, be it as the hon. Member said; still great allowance must be made for the irritated feelings of that gentleman. The offence which the hon. and learned
Gentleman gave was not given in the exercise of his parliamentary privileges, but had occurred in a speech which he had delivered elsewhere. Whilst the words "parliamentary privilege" was in his mouth, he could not help looking back to the case of Sir Francis Burdett. He could not but feel that the privileges of that House—which authorized them to attack private persons, and then to act as judges in their own cause, which authorized them to punish summarily all libels upon themselves, and to vent, without fear or shame, libel upon others—were privileges which ought to be exercised with great caution. Whilst the House retained the power of punishing men thus summarily for libels on its proceedings, it should be cautious how it proceeded in defending language which attacked the character and livelihood of those who were as entirely gentlemen as any Member of the House. In using that language he trusted that he was not yielding to the despotism of the Press—he hoped that he should not be considered as conciliating its favour; but the House was in a difficulty, and the hon. and learned Member had placed it in that difficulty; and though he saw some difficulty ill the course proposed by the hon. member for North Wiltshire, so far as it regarded the hon. and learned Member,
 79
 Mr. Harvey  thought that, notwithstanding the suggestions which had been offered to the House, there was a difficulty in this question not easily to be surmounted. The substantive matter of this complaint was two-fold—it involved a great public as well as a personal principle; with the public principle he would not deal at present; but so far as the matter was personal, he would say, that after having read the statement of Mr. Eugene Nugent, and heard the charge of Mr. O'Connell, he considered that no difficulty could present itself to their considering it. There was nothing to do but to have the discussion on it referred—and he thought that it might easily be referred—to any of the Gentlemen who had just addressed the House; for, after all, it was a personal question, and nothing but a personal question; and if he were expected, in common with all the Members who then heard him, to adjudicate on the subject, he should look upon it in that light, and in no other. As there had been an appeal made to the House with great candour by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and as the accusation which had been made by him had been repelled in terms which were equally unequivocal by the party accused, who stated that he was as incapable of such misconduct as the party who accused him, the adjudication must turn on the truth of their respective statements. It had been well observed by the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, that good frequently sprung out of inconvenience; and though he agreed that it might be impossible to report  verbatim 80 81 82
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  wished to relieve himself from the apparent inconsistency of now voting against a measure he had formerly supported. He should do so because, as the case now appeared, it did not seem to him to be one for the interference of the House. The expression of their sentiments by the reporters for  The Times
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the excellent speech of the hon. Member near him (Mr. Harvey) was such as might have been expected from him if he had been Counsel for  The Times 83 suppressio veri suggestio falsi
 Mr. Hume  said, that, having been the person who had seconded this Motion, he trusted he should be indulged with the opportunity of stating the view he took of this question. He was not sorry for the difficulty they were now placed in. He had before pointed out the folly of the regulation; but he had been answered, that every rule of that House was founded in true wisdom, and that the check which the Standing Order gave them on the proceedings of the Press ought not to be removed. What was the hon. and learned member for Dublin now doing? Why, he was keeping up the regulations of that House. Was it fit they should be kept up? He said no; and yet there was no mode of showing their absurdity but the manner in which the hon. Member had acted. It was not a question of getting rid of the regulations; but the question was, whether that rule, which gave the power to a single individual to call a person who published their Debates to the Bar of that House, should be acted on. He thought it should not; and the way
 84
 Mr. Bannerman  wished to make a short statement on behalf of the reporters of the Morning Papers. He desired to say, on their behalf, that they denied most positively the charges of wilful misrepresentation brought against them by the hon. member for Dublin, and they confidently appealed to that House for the truth of that denial; at the same time they were aware of the inconvenience that arose from the resolution of suppressing the speech of any Member, and they had only adopted it for the purpose of enabling them to procure a public contradiction in that House of the charges brought against
 85
 Mr. O'Connell  denied, that he had had or should have anything to do with being the proprietor of a newspaper.
 Mr. Bannerman : Why, he had received a resolution to that effect, signed by the hon. Member.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he only signed it as the Chairman of a meeting.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it would well become the House to consider, before they took the first step, to what it must lead. At the same time he perfectly saw the nature of the complaint. The hon. and learned Member admitted, that the privileges of that House were not observed by the reporters—that they connived at the non-observance of them—that he was ready to acquiesce in that non-observance; but then he insisted that the reports should be impartially given. The question, however, was, whether the course the hon. Member proposed to pursue, would enforce that impartiality. The hon. and learned Gentleman had skilfully tried to prevent any man from taking a different view of the subject from himself, by calling that difference of opinion "a shrinking." He did not know whether he (Sir Robert Peel) was to be accused of shrinking under the despotism; but he certainly differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman on this subject. For himself, he had been unpopular with almost all parts of the Press, but at the same time nothing had deterred him from stating what was true. He had been twenty years in Parliament, and he had never had reason to complain of any wilful misrepresentation, or omission amounting to anything like a misrepresentation; and he had never had any communication with the gentlemen who reported the Debates, beyond once or twice furnishing them with documents which he had referred to in the course of his speech. He thought, on the whole, looking at the necessity of having these reports, both in that and the other House of Parliament, considering the intention of supplying the public with a general transcript of what took place in the two Houses, that the
 86 O'Connell The Times
 Mr. O'Connell  intended to confine his remarks to the Paper that was now before them.
 Sir Robert Peel : Then why did the hon. and learned Member first bring forward a Motion against  The Morning Chronicle 87 The Mirror of Parliament The Times 88
 Lord Althorp  said, that the right hon. Baronet had very fairly stated, that the House ought to take care before it involved itself in the commencement of a contest out of which it would be impossible to extricate itself with honour. Where this question of privilege had been brought into action, there always had been found a very considerable difficulty. He must say, that whatever had been the difficulties which had occurred before, they must have been very small in comparison to those which in this case must arise, for the very fact was not a breach of privilege, but a desire that the privilege should be broken, and an anxiety that people should break it more extensively. He conceived that the improper course which the House was called upon to adopt would place it in a situation of the greatest possible difficulty that could be imagined. He was rather surprised that the hon. and learned member for Dublin should put so much importance on having his speeches reported, and, considering the estimation in which the hon. and learned Member was held, he (Lord Althorp) should have supposed that the hon. and learned Member could not have thought for a moment that he was called upon to bring forward this question as a serious question. The hon. and learned Member had said, that he was placed in the same situation in which hon. Members on previous occasions had brought their cases before the consideration of the House; but he must observe that the hon. and learned Member, in his opinion, would have consulted much
 89
 Mr. O'Connell  meant to persevere, and bring this question before the House every time  The Times
 The Speaker  having been directly called upon by the hon. and learned Member, said: I should be sorry to be backward in answering his question; but I confess I do not clearly understand what point it is on which he requires information. If the question is, whether the publication of the debates of this House is a breach of the privileges of this House, I say that it is a breach of privilege, and I believe that nobody ever doubted that it was; and there is no man who ever viewed the constant violation of the Standing Order of the House as anything but permissive, for the benefit of the public; and, therefore, as consistent with the views of this House in allowing what they have deemed would be for the public advantage. If the hon. and learned Member means to ask this question, the House is aware of the answer;
 90
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know whether there was any instance of this kind in which the House had refused a Motion such as his? He had looked into the Journals, and found none.
 The Speaker : If the hon. and learned Member says, that he has looked into the Journals, I should be sorry off-hand to oppose my distant recollection to his recent inquiry; but I must say, that my recollection is that many hours of the time of this House have been taken up, not in a debate whether a certain matter was a breach of privilege, but whether the question was upon the whole such a one that the House ought or ought not to interfere with regard to it. The mere right to interfere was never called in question.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved that they be called in.
 Mr. John Stanley  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Kemyss Tynte  hoped that the hon. and learned Member would withdraw the Motion. When it was first agitated, he thought it was something feasible. He found that that was not so. He should now oppose it; for the hon. and learned Member was now attempting to trench on
 91
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there was no man on that side of the House whose opinion he should be more proud to follow than that of the hon. Member who had just spoken. The hon. Member had said, that one of the causes of the Revolution of July, was the appearance of blank Journals. That was what he complained of—a censorship over that House, which should not be established through his person. Then he came to the charge. If he was right in it, was it not his duty to make it? The manly course was to make charges, if he was able to sustain them. He should be content to have that hon. Member, and the hon. Baronet, the member for the University, as arbitrators in this matter. His charge was a matter of fact, and if he did not prove it, there was no concession he would not make. The reporters had announced that they would outlaw one of the Members. Under these circumstances, the House might do what they pleased with the Motion.
 Mr. Finn  was bound to state the grounds of his differing from the hon. and learned member for Dublin oh the present Occasion. The privilege of the House had certainly been mocked and set at defiance, but he would not vote for any proceedings against any individuals upon the Press, for he wanted to get rid of the privilege altogether, which was absurd and useless. For his part, speaking personally, he was little indebted to the Gentlemen of the Press, but he could not consent to punish
 92
 Sir Francis Burdett  observed, that they had now entered into a wide field of discussion. He regretted that the hon. Member should think it his duty to bring forward this question, and he did not see by what possibility the House could enter upon the discussion of it. The reporters said that a groundless accusation of wilful misrepresentation had been brought against them. Some of that body he knew were as respectable men as any Gentleman in that House; and when such charges were made against them, it was not to be expected that such men would endure it with patience. Whether the course they had adopted Was a proper one or not he would not pretend to say, but what else could they do? The hon. Member said they misrepresented him—they denied it; but the House could not enter on that question. That battle had been fought on other occasions, and on better grounds
 93
 Colonel Evans  had been informed of a circumstance within these few minutes, which he would state to the House. Per-haps the House might recollect that a few evenings ago he had been caught napping; and one of the Evening Papers (he did not mention it by way of complaint) had published a violent letter, exposing the ridiculous way in which he had been carried in and compelled to vote by the Speaker against his consent. The Paper in question had represented that his public character was now totally lost, and that he himself was utterly degraded. If he pursued the course of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he should now be very angry; and call on the House to
 94
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the privileges of the press were invaluably important to the country, and he would never shrink from supporting them, but, at the same time, he would never shrink from raising his voice against its abuses. If the reporters avowed a determination to suppress any speeches uttered in that House, he would put it to the House whether it would not feel itself bound to visit such conduct by its interference. He regretted very much that this Motion had ever come forward, but, now that it had been brought forward, he put it to the House whether the question could be dismissed as a matter merely personal to the hon. and learned member for Dublin? He hoped that the House would look at with a wider scope, and would at once grasp, the difficulties. The suppression by the reporters ought not to be treated by the House merely as a punishment oh the hon. and learned member for Dublin. If the public speeches delivered in that House concerned the country—if the country were a party concerned in having the debates of that House reported—then, as reporting was a decided breach of privilege, it could only be performed by a sort of implied compact with the Press that the publication should be fair, and free from all partiality whatever. When the hon. member for Westminster spoke of the inaccuracies of the Press, he begged to remind him that this was not a case of inaccuracy, but of total and wilful suppression. If this had been a mistake, he should have been the last man in that House to make it the subject of severity. No man in that House or out of the House would more readily bow to the great difficulties under which the Press laboured with respect to locality, with respect to the difficulties of seeing and hearing, with respect to the difficulties of selecting and condensing, and, in short, with respect to the innumerable obstacles with which the reporters had to contend; but all this was different from a wilful suppression and a combination or conspiracy to suppress. He had heard that night the simile of the worm turning. If the hon. and learned member for Dublin
 95
 Mr. Wilks  rose to inquire of the right hon. the Secretary for the Colonies what provision was intended to be made by the Government for the moral and religious instruction of the enfranchised negroes? It was fully understood that the provisions of the Bill were to be founded upon the Resolution which had been agreed to by both Houses of Parliament. The last of these Resolutions determined that such instruction should be provided for the liberated slaves; but, on looking over the Bill, he had not been able to discover the slightest indication of any means of carrying that intention into effect. Within the last two months, religious persecutions had been renewed in the island of Jamaica, and the properly of unoffending individuals had been confiscated to pay penalties inflicted for attending religious worship. His conduct, and that of many other Members, he believed, would be regulated in a great measure by the answer which he received.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, he would not raise an objection to any part of the Bill except for the advantage of the larger
 61
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, the Amendments of the noble Lord and the hon. member for Weymouth would be unnecessary interpolations of the principle of the Bill, They would be unjust to the
 65
 Mr. Robert Gordon  concurred in the
 62
 Mr. Gordon  would ask his noble friend where he was to find the circulating medium in the colonies to pay the sums proposed by him as wages to the negroes?
 Dr. Lushington  opposed any such alteration as that suggested by his hon. friend, on the ground that, if it were permitted, it would be subjected to much abuse. If the slave were worth little, for that little the master would give him his freedom, and then he might go where he pleased. He was afraid, if the proposition were agreed to, it would expose the slaves to much imposition.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, there was no part of the slavery question in which he felt more interest than that which was now before the House. His hon. friend had referred to the removals to Trinidad, but his hon. friend was wrong in supposing that they were not effected by the consent of the negro. The Act provided that it should not be done, except with the consent of the negro. It was known in that case, that the negroes were removed, and that they died like rotten sheep. His firm conviction was, that if they were to proceed in the way proposed, in the course of the next six or seven years there would be a transfer of 20,000 slaves from island to island, and not a thousand of that number would be alive at the end of their apprenticeship.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  moved as an Amendment to the clause, "that no apprentice should be removed from one colony to another after the passing of this Act, without the consent of the said apprentice given and recorded in writing-signed by the said two Justices of the Peace." He could produce a great number of authorities equally conclusive on this point, but he felt satisfied the House would fully concur with him in thinking that these apprentices ought not to be considered as slaves, and that they should not be removed from place to place without their own consent and authority. If any objection was made to this, he should certainly feel it his duly to press it to a division.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  was convinced, that nothing would induce negroes to work so well or so readily as holding out an inducement of wages; the evidence given before the Committee proved that fact; but the House had already decided against the system of wages. He hoped that the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Stanley) would consent to the introduction of a clause that should approximate towards wages, by allowing the negroes a small sum, say a half-penny per hour, for their labour. The planters complained of the expensive and tiresome mode of laying in stores of provisions for the negroes, and therefore it would be better to allow a small sum for wages, that the negro might know he was working for wages. The prospect of emancipation through an apprenticeship, would be no inducement equivalent to wages. At all events, the slaves should have the option of having allowances and provision grounds, or of having wages.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  conceived the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down could not have possibly adduced stronger arguments in favour of the payment of money for labour than those he was pleased to utter, evidently intended to have an opposite tendency. The hon. Member was pleased to allude to a publication got up under the auspices of the Anti-Slavery Society, as if he (Mr. Fowell Buxton) was the author of it. Now, in denying such to be the fact, he assured hon. Members he did so with regret. He could not acknowledge that he was, but for the satisfaction of the hon. Member, he could acquaint him not only with the name of that gentleman, whom he was proud to acknowledge as his friend, but also that that gentleman had done more by his exertions to promote the great cause of anti-slavery, than any other man in existence—and that was Mr. Macaulay.
 Mr. James  said, he was the proprietor of one estate in the island of Jamaica, and he had several slaves, who contrived, despite of their labour for their master, to amass considerable sums of money from their savings, when not engaged at their daily employment. One slave of his alone at that moment had upwards of 200 l 64
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, he hoped the right hon. Secretary would, instead of allowing the negro so many hours on an annual average, make it so many hours per week, so that he might cultivate his own grounds. It was true that the crop season was a busy one for the planter, but it was also an important one for the negro in the cultivation of his garden; but if at that period the master chose to call on his negro for extra labour, he should pay for it.
 Lord Howick  concurred in the Amendment, but with it he still thought the clause tended to great objections. For many years, it would be in the recollection of the House, endeavours had been made to prevail on the colonists to make more liberal allowances to the slaves. The clause, as it now stood, would give advantage to those colonies that had been most obstinate in preventing the execution of the orders of Government. He should therefore suggest that they should give small sums to the slave for his labour—say even the sum of 6 d 63
 Lord Howick  said, that the prescribed time would only amount to four days and a-half a-week, and the wages would be only 5 l l
 Mr. O'Connell , before he proceeded to address the House, wished to ask the Chairman (Mr. Bernal) a question upon a point of privilege, viz.—whether he (the Chairman) possessed the same privilege as the Speaker in ordering the Gallery to be cleared of strangers.
 The Chairman  (Mr. Bernal) said, if any hon. Member chose to say, that he saw strangers in the Gallery, it would be his duty to order the Gallery to be cleared.
 Mr. O'Connell : "Oh, very well. Sir; but I do not intend to look that way at present." His object, the hon. Member said, had been attained. The House would perhaps have been placed in a very unpleasant predicament; but he would refrain, as he had seen an avowal that, if the "people"
 131 The Times l 132 l l l
 Mr. Stanley  was quite satisfied that there was no sacrifice the nation would not make rather than sacrifice the national honour. Neither of the two hon. Members who had spoken on this subject had stated any ground whatever-, why 15,000,000 l l 133 l l 134 l l s l l s l l s l s l l l s l s l 135 l l s
 Mr. O' Connell  said, as he understood the proposition, the noble Lord intended to raise the scale of taxation on other produce, so as to keep the advantage to the West-India body. Was not that granting a monopoly?
 Mr. Stanley  did not rise to dispute the propriety of the right hon. Gentleman's observations, but merely to remind him that the question before the House was whether the blank should be filled up with 15,000,000 l l
 Mr. O Connell  hoped that the hon. and learned Member would comply with the request of the noble Lord, and not press the Resolution to a division. The House ought not to pledge itself on this subject without a previous inquiry before a Committee. This was a subject on which the interference of the Government was capable of provoking very strong feelings in a country like this. One of the best resolutions they could come to was to govern as little as they could. They might afford facilities for education, but they should do nothing more. There would be great difficulties in carrying such a measure into effect in Ireland. The hon. and learned Member had referred to Prussia. That was a regimental government, and till lately, everything there had been conducted on a regimental plan. The Corporal was the great philosopher of that state, and it was he who made the people there acquiesce in the plans of the Government. The King of Prussia was now, however, the best reformer in Europe. The hon. and learned Member had referred to the French government; but he could only have done so as he did not know what the principle of the government of France was, as those did who had had actual experience of it. He could tell the hon. and learned Member, that the object of the liberal party in France, was to unchristianise that country. It was of little importance to them whether a man was a Deist or an Atheist. They were the party who endeavoured to enforce the education plan of the Normal school. The plan of the Normal school was to prevent that sort of education which the people wished to have. The people preferred to have the assistance of the brothers of the Church in their education.
 170
 Mr. Stanley  thought, that the hon. Gentleman had expressed his acquiescence in the observations of the right hon. member for Tamworth as to the inexpediency of bringing before the House abstract propositions. No one could dispute the general proposition that it was desirable that all reductions should be made which were practicable; but this proposition contained an abstract principle; and if anything was necessary now, it was something' more than a declaration of the
 175
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  rose to move that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to cause the claim of Narroba Govind Outia to be judicially re-considered before the Deccan Prize Money be distributed. The individual on whose behalf he made the Motion was a man who had no friends or connexions in this country, and he (Mr. Bulwer), therefore, appealed to the justice and the generosity of the House to give the case a fair and a patient hearing. During the war, which terminated in the subjugation of the Deccan country, the inhabitants of one of the places which surrendered were I allowed to go forth upon conditions expressly stated in the terms of the capitulation, one of which was, that the individual mentioned in the Motion, should, with others, be permitted to remove with his property, and if he went into any place in the possession of the British, he should enjoy the protection of British authority, and the benefits of British law. He did go to a town in the possession of the British forces, but so far from the compact made with him being observed, he was cast into prison, put in irons, robbed of all his property, and died in the extremest misery and want. Previous, however, to his sufferings thus being terminated by death, he had offered to refer his claim to a servant of the East-India Company. The decision of that functionary was in his favour, yet he got no relief. After his death, his heirs had no remedy but to bring the matter under the consideration of the Supreme Court at Bombay. It was then said, that the Supreme Court had not the power of adjudicating in this matter, because the Poonah country was in a state between peace and war. The Supreme Court, however, allowed that the property was that of these individuals, but that what they had to do was to appeal to another Court—to the Privy Council. They did so, and the Privy Council said they would hear the case, but the evidence should be confined to that which had been laid before the Court of Bombay. These individuals being limited to that evidence, could not well prove upon it their right to the property, nor show how it had been taken away from them. In fact, they were placed in the same position with ordinary individuals, the title deeds of whose property had been taken from
 184
 Mr. Halcomb  seconded the Motion, and said, that he had been requested to do so by parties whom, after a careful examination of documents, he believed entitled to the fullest confidence, and whose claims he considered as strongly deserving of attention, and of having justice done to them, as any that he ever recollected having been brought before that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman was proceeding to read a pamphlet, containing a statement of the claims of the parties, when,
 The Chairman  said the question was, the insertion of the sum of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Charles Buller  was rising to bring forward his Motion on this subject, when
 Mr. Charles Buller  contended there was nothing abstract in his proposition. It pledged the Ministers to make such arrangements previous to the next Session of Parliament as might be necessary to diminish the burthens of the country. He would, however, abandon his Motion if the noble Lord would allow him to place it on the Journals, and would promise to do something in consequence of it. Was the noble Lord ready to acquiesce in that proposition?
 Mr. Charles Buller  was desirous that Ministers should pledge themselves to something specific—to declare, that it was possible to make extensive reductions, and to promise to effect them. He was sorry to press the subject forward in so thin a House, and when some were in the act of retiring from it, but without any intended discourtesy he felt bound to proceed. There was no subject in which the people took greater interest than in the diminution of burthens by lessening expenditure, and it was the duty of the House to ascertain, in the first instance, whether it was not possible to make considerable reductions. Matters of figures could never be made interesting, but fortunately for him it was not necessary to enter into any wearisome details. He did not mean to charge any particular departments with extravagance—nor to touch a single sinecure; he was in favour of a larger economy, which must be accomplished by a diminution of the public establishments, without the slightest danger to the public safety. He did not ground his proposition on prevailing distress, for he did not believe that it existed to any material extent; but there was no doubt, if the people were not oppressed, they
 176 177 l l l l l 178 l l l l 179
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was curious, that after all that had taken place, they had not heard one word from the noble Lord about the source from which the 20,000,000 l l 138
 Mr. Grote  said, he had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of his hon. friend, after whose very able speech it was unnecessary to trouble the House with many observations. He seconded the Motion, in the belief that two things were perfectly true. The first was, that the present system of education was defective—the other, that the defects of the system would not be remedied till the Government bestowed upon this important subject a greater degree of care than was now done. It was impossible that, in the present state of the Session, the details of this subject, or even the general principle, could receive the full attention of the House; but they would give satisfaction to the people at large, and show that they had a strong sense of their great and important duties, if they undertook, that amongst the cares of the next Session, they would attempt—not the least important part of their duties—to remove the defects of the National Education. He should not say anything more on the subject, but that he desired to recommend to the House the work of Professor Cousin. He knew that it was not a familiar idea to the people of this country, or to the Members of that House, that the Government should interfere with the education of the people; but, if attention was bestowed (m that work, they would see, that without any interference with I he comfort or the happiness of the people,
 167
 Mr. Robinson  wished to know from the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in what manner he intended to pay the interest of the money? He must, at the same time, state his concurrence in the grant, and he had no doubt that he should be able to justify his vote to his constituents?
 Mr. Aglionby  could not permit the House to divide without stating his dissent from the sum proposed.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that great expectations of economy were indulged by the nation at the time when his Majesty's Government came into power; and though large allowances were made for the peculiar circumstances in which they then stood, yet certainly the public had a right to expect that something considerable would be done towards relieving the burthens of the people. He regretted to say, that the just expectations of the people had been most grievously disappointed. The people of England bad of late years become too intelligent, and too well informed, not to know, that if ever men by their speeches, and by their express declarations on going into
 180
 Mr. Herries  had not yet come to the passage relating to that subject, and, therefore,
 139
 Mr. Herries  said, the noble Lord, in answer to the various questions put to him, had merely stated, that the ultimate intention of the Government was to provide for the interest of this debt by a tax on colonial produce; but he (Mr. Herries) thought this clause required a great deal more explanation, before the House could be justified in laying an additional burthen of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to move a Resolution in conformity to his notice, that the House would, with the smallest delay possible, consider the means of establishing a system of National Education; and spoke as follows:—Although the subject to which I am now about to solicit the attention of the House, can be surpassed by none in the importance of its influence upon the well-being of society; although none even at this time more imperiously demands consideration from the rulers of the people; yet all this, notwithstanding, I dare not, in the present temper of the political world, request the House to listen to anything like a complete exposition of my opinions and my plans respecting it. Men's minds are now in a ferment on matters solely of immediate import—the interest of the day, the pressing urgency of the present moment, are those alone which can command the consideration of the existing race of politicians. It would, therefore, be idle to hope, that a subject like general education could engage their favour, or even occupy their thoughts. Its results are distant—the benefits to be expected from it can only be attained by the slow operation of time, patience, and industry. There is nothing to raise the wonder and admiration of the ignorant many—no party
 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 The Jurist 147 148 d'une civilisation toute materielle 149 150 151 152 153 i. e 154 155 156 157 De Divinations 158 159 160 161 162 163 164 Rien n' est plus difficile 165 166
 Mr. Roebuck , in reply, admitted that no final decision ought to be made on this subject without full inquiry. He must say, that of all the observations that had been made, those which had surprised him most were those that had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Dublin; and of all unfounded attacks, that upon the French government and on M. Cousin, was the most unwarranted. To confound persons and things in this manner together, and to say, that a whole body of men wanted to put down religion, was highly unbecoming, and unworthy of the candid manner in which all persons should be treated. In the book of M. Cousin, it was distinctly said, that nothing could be effectually done for the education of the poorer classes without the aid of the clergy of the country. Did that look like a wish to put down religion? The object of the feeling thus expressed, was closely allied with that of the priesthood of Rome. That priesthood was not closely allied with the feelings of the people of France. That people had long had another Church—not the Church of Rome, but the Gallican Church—which was more particularly than that of Rome the favoured object of the French government, the French people, and of the Normal School. The hon. and learned member for Dublin should have known these things; and it would have been better had he brought forward documents than have made assertions, which were often hazarded and often retracted. He would, with the consent of the House, withdraw the Motion.
 Mr. Wilks  thought, that the House would be more able to decide this question, when the returns lately moved for by the noble Lord, the member for Calne, were laid before the House, than they could be
 174
 Mr. Hume  expressed deep regret at the observation which had fallen from his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, respecting the mission of the persons deputed from France to inquire into the state of education in England. He would take upon himself to say, that no such object as the hon. and learned member for Dublin had stated was the object adopted in France. If the hon. and learned Member would read the 17th article of the  Projet de Loi maire curé 172
 Mr. Fryer  gave credit to Ministers for their good intentions; but good intentions alone would not do; they must have acts. He was afraid, however, that they were kept down by the fear of the oligarchy of the landlords. If they meant to relieve the country they must establish a Property-tax, not an Income-tax, for to that the public would never consent; but to a Property-tax they roust come at last. He did not want to turn Ministers out, but out they must go if they did not reduce the expenditure: and who was to come in in their places? Was it the Tories? He did not want the Tories; but they must come in if the present Ministers could not stay in. The Duke of Wellington must come in with his  quantum suff
 Mr. Fryer  expressed his astonishment at the manner in which the question was met by the House. Scarce was the sound of a loan for 15,000,000 l l l l s 137 in toto
 Mr. Rigby Wason  opposed the grant as enormous and extravagant. According to the calculations made by the planters themselves, this grant of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Buxton , after passing a high eulogium on Mr. Stephen, proceeded to say, that there was not one clause in the Bill, however curious it might appear, that he would support with more pleasure than the grant of 20,000,000 l l 136 l A veteran warrior in the Christian field, Who never saw the sword he could not wield, Who, when occasion justified its use, Had wit as bright, as ready to produce; Could draw from records of an earlier age Or from philosophy's enlightened page, His rich materials; and regale the ear With strains it was a privilege to hear!
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, that he was not actuated by any party feelings in the view he took of this question; but he was decided in his determination to move an Amendment in accordance with the notice he had given. He should oppose the grant of 20,000,000 l l 130 d
 Sir Robert Inglis  hardly knew how to resist the general proposition of the hon. and learned member for Bath; but though he concurred with that proposition, he hardly knew how he could agree with any other portion of the hon. and learned Member's speech. He did not know how the Government could deny the general proposition, that it was the duty of a Government to provide for the people, as it was the duty of a father to provide for his children, the means of education. He knew that the present Lord Chancellor had taken the greatest possible pains, and that, too, at a most important period of his professional life, to obtain complete information on this subject. That learned person had spent three hours a-day for two years together, investigating the returns made on this subject. The digest prepared from these returns was most laborious. It was published in two volumes, in 1818. The Lord Chancellor did not need his testimony, but he gave it most willingly. On the 28th June, 1820, that hon. and learned Gentleman, admitting the importance of the clergy and the value of their efforts, said, "he felt it his duty to return his most cordial thanks to those reverend Gentlemen, without whose assistance they would not have advanced a single step towards that point of their labours at which they had arrived—he meant the whole of the clergy of the Established Church." The hon. and learned Member had referred to the two Universities, and had asked what they had done for the public money they had received The hon. and learned Member was mistaken—they had not received any public money. The sums referred to were the gratuitous donations of the people—[Mr.
 171 Roebuck
 Sir Robert Peel  differed from the hon. member for Middlesex, as to the policy of the House entering into engagements with regard to what it would do in another Session. He objected also to its entering into the consideration of a mere abstract Resolution. There had been more notices for the discussion of mere abstract Resolutions this Session than he had ever recollected at any former period. Resolutions establishing abstract principles were just the very opposite to the course which the House ought to pursue. We should consider the difficulties surrounding practical questions before we entered into engagements on principles which we were not certain that we might be able to carry into execution. Few persons, he thought, would be found to deny the great advantage of extending the benefits of education among all classes of our countrymen; but it was not quite correct to assert that education in this empire was so very imperfect. He believed that almost every Gentleman who heard him endeavoured, in his own neighbourhood, to diffuse the blessings of education; but that did not appear to the hon. and learned Member to be enough, for he thought that the care of the State was also necessary. Now, that was a doubtful question; but even if it were not, a Bill should be brought in to show how it was practicable, instead of a vague resolution like the present. "But," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "it is necessary
 173
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that the subject was of great importance; but he confessed he could not discover what possible advantage was expected from bringing such a Motion as the present under the consideration of the House, other than making it the vehicle for conveying to the public a speech which might be expected to make an impression out of doors; as to its serving any other purpose, he professed himself unable to discover any. An endeavour had been made to cast blame upon his Majesty's Government, and the Record of Parliamentary Debates had been searched for the purpose of establishing the inconsistencies of the present advisers of the Crown. He trusted, that
 181 182 l
 Lord Althorp  If the hon. Member meant to say, that the House was to pledge itself to make every practicable reduction,—surely the hon. Gentleman did not mean to say, that the House was to make impracticable reductions? If the hon. Member merely wished the House to express the opinion, that it was desirable for the House to make reductions, no one could dissent from that proposition, because it was a truism; but the hon. Member's Motion implied more than this, for it pledged the House to arrangements previous to the next Session of Parliament.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the subject which the hon. Gentleman had brought under the consideration of the House was one of the greatest importance. He was sure he did not address one gentleman who did not feel anxiously desirous that the education of the people should be increased and improved in the utmost possible manner the question was, as to the best means by which that object could be effected. The hon. and learned Member had stated, in his definition of what education was, that reading and writing, and the first elements of figures, were not education. He was inclined to agree with the hon. and learned Member in that statement. These things were the means of education, but not education itself. He was perfectly ready to concur with the general object of the hon. and learned Member, so far as it was intended to give a better education to the people generally. He believed, too, that he might agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that education was not as good as it might be, but he believed that it was and had been for some time improving, that it had been doing so of late years much beyond what was imagined possible twenty years ago. The difference had been caused by the public-spirited exertions of individuals; these had been perfectly successful, as was proved by the greater circulation of small publications. With respect to the plan itself, he thought it would be found difficult to force a national system of education by the Government, from the difficulty of ascertaining the number of schools required. There was a national system of education
 168 169
 Lord Althorp  said, that he meant to propose to raise the money by an additional tax on colonial produce. He knew that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Robinson) would not approve of that plan—he would rather have a property-tax—but in that he did not concur. As he did not see that there were many Gentlemen who were prepared to vote for the clause, he did not think it necessary to go further into the question.
 Lord Althorp  considered, that, at pre-sent, our own colonies ought to have a preference.
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred in the propriety of the present Bill, because it would not mar the will of the testator, but carry it more completely into effect. It could never have been the intention of the testator, that such an immense quantity of his property should be squandered in lawsuits; if it were, he must have been little better than insane. His learned friend had talked of establishing a precedent in the present case. There was no danger of the kind except in his own imagination. The Bill was not a Bill, as he had said, to interfere with the testator's will in any way, not even to change or amend it, but to carry it more completely into effect. And the only precedent which would be established would be the valuable one by which the making of such wills would be prevented in future. When it was urged by his hon. friend, the member for Colchester, that every one who disputed a will could, by the passing of the present Bill, be brought to the bar of that House, he confessed he could not see the reasonableness of the assertion. However, any measure which would have for its effect the lessening or abrogating the enormous expenses of the Court of Chancery, should, even though it were otherwise defective, have his most hearty approval. The Court of Chancery, to settle disputed claims of property, was like setting up a steam-engine to crush a fly. Though he would advocate willingly any remedial measure, yet he firmly believed that there was no effectual provision against its operations, but the establishment of cheap Courts of Justice in every part of the country, within reach of every man's door. Until Local Courts were established, and the heavy machinery of the Court of Chancery got rid of, the English people would scarce be entitled to that character for common sense on which they so justly prided themselves, and which they had otherwise so well earned. He trusted that there would be he patching up of the present system; but that early in the next Session a measure would be introduced, which would have the effect of superseding those Courts which dealt justice out by instalments, and of establishing Courts of Justice to sit constantly within the reach of every man in the community.
 Captain Dundas  presented a Petition from Greenwich, praying for the institution of Poor Laws in Ireland. He supported the petition; and he believed that nothing but Poor-laws could effectually put down agitation and starvation. He had reason to know, that the greater part of the respectable landed proprietors connected with Ireland were favourable to the introduction of Poor-laws.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the petitioners from Greenwich—for he had looked into their petition—did not rest their demand for Irish Poor-laws upon the argument
 192
 Mr. Ruthven  said, there was a growing feeling in favour of Poor-laws amongst the Irish landlords. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. O'Reilly) as to the consequences of the consolidation of farms; and he believed that nothing but the Law of Settlement could protect the people from the tyranny of the landlords, who turned them out of their small farms.
 Colonel Evans : What is the intention of his Majesty's Government with respect to the conduct of the Middlesex Magistrates on a recent occasion?
 Mr. Baring  bad intended offering a suggestion very similar to that of his right hon. friend, and must therefore join in expressing a hope that the noble Lord would adopt it. As long as the noble Lord held his present office, the public had every requisite guarantee that no improper use would be made of the extraordinary powers with which the clause as it stood proposed to vest the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury; but it could not be expected the noble Lord would always hold office, and it was the duty of Parliament so to regulate the disposition of the public property, that no man could hazard it. He fully agreed with his right hon. friend, that every bargain of the same character as the present, should be conducted in the ordinary and long-established way—namely, by the Minister of the Crown coming down from time to time to Parliament, and applying for such powers as the actual necessity, not the contingent necessity, of the case demanded. It was by no means usual for Parliament to vest the Treasury with powers to conclude a bargain; and he was sorry, in the case of another Bill then before the House, relating to an application on the part of the city of London, to see Ministers attempting to violate the ordinary Parliamentary and constitutional usage, which was, for the Treasury to make the bargain, and then bring it to Parliament for ratification. In the course of the last war, on many occasions, it would have been most desirable for the Government of the day to conclude bargains without the consent of Parliament, but in no one single instance had the attempt been made. With respect to the best means for raising the money to be granted for compensation, he had also a suggestion to offer to the noble Lord, namely, that instead of borrowing money in the market accordingly as the contingency might occur, the most suitable mode of giving the slave-proprietors their settlement would be, grants in the shape of stock, bearing a moderate degree of
 200 l. l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged to remind the House it had already on a division decided that the amount of compensation to the planters should be 20,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  should not vote for the 20,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  observed, that the question had been taken whether any sum of money should be granted; and those who then thought that there should not be any compensation, could consistently say the same thing now; but those who had voted for the grant of 15,000,000 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that those who acted with him had not voted for the 15,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  answered, that the hon. and learned Member was in the constant habit of making assertions which, so often as they were refuted, he made again and again, till, by force of repetition, he believed them to be true. He (Mr. Secretary Stanley) had before told the hon. and learned Member, that when the amount proposed to be raised was to be a loan, it was also proposed that that loan should be repaid by the negroes; but the House decided that the negroes should not be taxed, and therefore the vote of the 20,000,00 l.
 Mr. Henry Hundley  thought, that if the Resolutions passed on this subject bound them so completely as the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) seemed to imagine, he could only say, that the introduction of these Resolutions was a most ingenious net to catch country gentlemen. He might be making a display of his own ignorance, but he must state what had made him vote as he had done. He had always intended that the amount of compensation should equal the loss by emancipation. Now, however, the apprenticeship clause was introduced, and the emancipation was not as complete as he had expected, nor the loss to the planters much. It was now a question whether the negro would work for free wages? If he would do so, then the same amount of compensation would not be required. Under these circumstances he should vote for the smaller sum; and in doing so he did not think he was acting contrary to the spirit of good faith.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the Amendment was somewhat obscure, but he supposed the hon. Member meant that one-half of the twenty millions compensation should remain unpaid until the term of apprenticeship of the negro should have expired. Now, he must say, that if the 20,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley : Then the Motion was made with no economical view towards the country, but, on the contrary, with a detrimental view to the planters' interests. The real question was, whether the House would hold out an inducement
 210
 Mr. O'Connell  could have no confidence in the West-Indian body, if the Amendment of the hon. Member were lost. He
 216 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  had never supported—but the noble Lord had—the foulest bribery and corruption. If he had, the noble Lord might indeed reproach him; but it was not likely that he should. If the noble Lord had been able to have his way, the foul corruption of that ancient borough he represented would have been preserved. Let the noble Lord take his conciliation out of that. The Committee were ready enough to call him to order; why did they not call the noble Lord to order, when the noble Lord was assailing the whole of his political life; and why did the Committee call him to order, when he referred only to one small chapter in the noble Lord's political history? He would say, by way of parenthesis, that when the noble Lord had done as much for his country, as he (Mr. O'Connell) had done for his—[ Laughter drowned the conclusion of the hon. Member sentence l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the question under discussion; for the hon. and learned member for Dublin, who had been absent from the House in the early part of the debate, and had since made two or three speeches, had not, with the exception of repeating very often the words twenty millions, said one word which bore upon the question then under discussion. The hon. and learned Member had gone into all sorts of collateral topics which were likely to create irritation in the West-India body. He had adorned them with that eloquence which he could so well employ, but on the question before the Committee the hon. Member had not said one word. He put it to the House to recollect, that by their Resolutions which had gone out to the West Indies, they were pledged, if to anything, to pay the 20,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed that in the preamble the words "service of" be substituted for the words "right of;" upon
 221
 Lord Norreys  said, as it was his intention to oppose the grant, he wished distinctly to state he was not one of those who were prepared to support the rest of the Bill. He would not consent to vote away the 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Rotch  asked, if he was never to be allowed an opportunity to vindicate himself and his brother Magistrates from the charges which, night after night, were sent forth to the public against them? The Magistrates of the county were accused, not only of having acted erroneously, which he dared say they had done, but of having set up their opinion in opposition to that of the Judges. Now, if the House would permit him, he would make a plain statement of facts, which would show that the Magistrates had never done so; but that, although they were most anxious to act in unison with the feelings of the Judges, they had never yet received any instructions upon which they could proceed. It was hard that they should have been made the sport of the House and of the newspapers for such a length of time, and never have had an opportunity of explaining their conduct. He certainly was not prepared to deny, that it was the custom, and had been so for a period far beyond the memory of man, for the Grand Jury to go on with the business while there were no Magistrates at Clerken-well—and that might have arisen from the consideration, that it was useless for four Magistrates to sit in one room for a whole day with not a soul before them, while the Crier was swearing witnesses to go before the Grand Jury in another room. It should be recollected that Middlesex was different from other counties, for here the business of the session was a perfect labour. There were as many prisoners tried at one session in Middlesex (twelve of which occurred in the year) as in the whole year in other counties. He had been surprised to see in the newspapers a statement, said to have been made by the Solicitor-General, that Mr. Const, the late Chairman, felt it exceedingly hard that the practice should be supposed to have prevailed in his time. Now he himself, shortly after his connexion with the Magistracy, had presented a report to Mr. Const, as Chairman, complaining of that very practice. This fact must rescue the present Magistrates from the imputation, that the custom had been introduced through their negligence. It was notorious that the Crier of the Court was too old to do anything rightly. He was not able to give satisfactory evidence upon any subject, and yet he was the person who reported the circumstances to the Judges; and he had no doubt he had reported strange things. This person came
 196
 Mr. Harvey  rose, not to oppose the Bill, but to make some comments upon it in connexion with that sweating of the Courts of Law which had been alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman. It appeared that this estate produced an income of about 25,000 l. l. l. 187 l. l. l. l. l. l. 188
 Mr. Shaw , believing that the Poor-laws would not relieve the distresses of Ireland, could not conscientiously support the petition. if he believed it would create profitable employment for the poor, he would support it; but he believed that its only effect would be, to deprive the industrious of that labour which was their only support, and, without satisfactorily relieving any, it would pauperize all. He certainly admitted, that it was a great hardship on English parishes to support the Irish poor; no doubt that matter required amendment. But when it was wished to introduce into Ireland a system of Poor-laws avowedly bad and insufficient in England, he could not at all agree as to the propriety or efficacy of the remedy proposed. If England adopted a good system, he should support its application to Ireland; but he should never support the application of one which as a remedy was much worse than the disease. He was decidedly of opinion, that a complete reform of the present system of Poor-laws in England was imperatively required. When that was done, he should urge no objection to having Ireland put on the same footing as England; but not till then. It was too much, that England, because she had a bad system of Poor-laws, should force it upon Ireland, by way of putting her upon the same footing.
 Mr. Aglionby , on his own behalf, and on behalf of his constituents and the people of England, must say, that there was no clause in the whole Bill which he should see carried with so little pleasure as the one under discussion. He was one who had always been of opinion, that no man's property should be taken away without an equivalent. If compensation were due, give it at once, but not under a delusion. Property, in his opinion, was held for the good of the public; and, being so held, could be taken away. In regard to land—the most sacred of all property—it was frequently taken away for the making of roads, canals, and other national advantages. But an equivalent was given. And how was it assessed? He was convinced that the planters must derive considerable advantage from free
 201 l. l.
 Mr. Herries  said, the time was now come when the noble Lord (Althorp) was bound to redeem his pledge, by affording to the House an explanation of the reasons which induced Government to propose so peculiar and novel an enactment as that of vesting the Lords of the Treasury with the power of making grants from time to time, to the amount of 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Herries  was not satisfied as to the expediency, much less as to the necessity, of the proposed course. Under any circumstances, until the next Session, and, in all probability, for a much longer period, it was impossible any case could occur in which it would be necessary to make payments on account of the proposed grant; and he thought the more prudent course to adopt would be merely to give the maximum sum of compensation, and leave the arrangements by which that sum from time to time should be issued to the future consideration and decision of Parliament. Unquestionably, the proposed course was contrary to all usage. and, in his opinion, it was opposed to all propriety. Then, with regard to the means by which the proposed grant was to be raised. Notwithstanding all that had fallen from the noble Lord, he was of opinion that the proper constitutional means of levying the grant was by the issue of Exchequer Bills; and he recommended the noble Lord, before bringing up the Report, to reconsider the subject. All the difficulty in the granting of a power to the Lords of the Treasury to raise money at their own discretion, and without coming to Parliament, could be obviated, if, instead of the present, a clause was substituted, empowering the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury to raise such sums as might be required for the purposes of the Bill, not exceeding in the whole the sum of 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Michael Angelo Taylor , having had long experience of the proceedings of the Court of Chancery, and having for many years exerted himself to reform the abuses of that Court, although not attended with that success which he could desire, felt gratified to perceive that the present Bill met with the concurrence of hon. Members who heretofore differed in opinion from him. The abuses of the Court of Chancery were monstrous; for, in place of being a protection to infants, it absolutely went to rob them of their just rights. He (Mr. Taylor) would venture to say from his own knowledge, that the Court of Chancery was the means of destroying any properly that might be placed in that Court.
 190
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  observed, that the real question before the House was the apprenticeship question, which, though it had already been disposed of, was brought into discussion for the third time, and he felt it his duty to state, that it had been intimated to those who represented, or endeavoured, like himself, feebly to represent the West-India interest, that if they would consent to the term of apprenticeship being fixed at six years, the subject would not have been mooted this evening in the House. His answer to this intimation had been, that if the grant was raised to 50,000,000 l. 212 213 *
 Mr. Robert Gordon  would beg to say a few words, as a person much interested in the measure. He said, that from the moment the Resolutions proposed by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies were adopted by the House, and sent out to the colonies, slavery was virtually abolished. But these Resolutions had been agreed to on the distinct understanding, that 20,000,000 l.
 Dr. Lushington , after complimenting the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies for the great parliamentary skill and  tactique l. 211 l.
 Dr. Lushington  did not think it was the duty of this House, agreeably to its usual form of proceeding, to take cognizance of what the House of Lords might have done in the exercise of its own discretion. With respect to the Bill itself, he should state honestly what his feeling upon it was. If he could agree with his hon. friend, the member for Truro, that this was a Bill to revoke a will made by a testator, he should have great doubts as to whether the House could entertain any such subject. But the measure now proposed was, a Bill to execute the will of the testator to the utmost extent, which the power and assistance of the Court of Chancery had hitherto been unable to execute. There was no deviation from the intention of the testator—there was no attempt to destroy or overturn those objects he intended to execute. This Bill was only for the purpose of taking the money out of Chancery, and giving it to those who were entitled to it, and for that reason he would support the Bill.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose to submit a proposition that half the sum agreed to be voted to the West-India proprietors by way of compensation, should be reserved until the period of apprenticeship expired. He trusted it was not necessary for him to take up the time of the House in arguing at any length in support of this proposition. The argument in favour of it was founded in the caution and prudence which men of the world displayed in the bargains made by them in ordinary transactions. The ordinary practice was to withhold the purchase-money until the commodity was delivered. He remembered one instance, in which there had been a deviation from that rule, and the consequence should operate as a warning. He knew not how many millions had been voted to Spain and Portugal for the abolition of the slave trade, but the money was paid before the condition was performed, and the consequence was that the money was kept, and the slave trade continued. In the present instance he could not contemplate any objection to his Motion. What he proposed was, that they should pay 10,000,000 l. 208 No, no. l. l. l. 209 l. l.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that the interest of the 10,000,000 l.
 Mr. Spring Rice , from his acquaintance with the circumstances of Ireland, was able to assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Captain Dundas), that, instead of putting an end to agitation, the Poor-laws would have the contrary effect. The hon. and gallant Officer had also said, that a majority of landed proprietors connected with Ireland were favourable to Poor-laws for that country. On the contrary, it was well known that they were not so; and the reason assigned for their opposition to Poor-laws was, that the burthen would fall upon themselves. Now, for his part, he would not oppose any burthen upon his estate, to any extent, if it would improve the condition of the Irish peasantry. But though he differed from the hon. and learned member for Dublin upon most subjects, he agreed with him on this, and believed, that Poor-laws would be productive of the most injurious consequences in Ireland; and he believed that the reasons which led him to this opinion, and which, on the proper occasion, he was ready to urge, were those which influenced the greater number of gentlemen connected with Ireland.
 Mr. William Brougham , in answer to the statements of the hon. member for Colchester, and in justification of the Court of Chancery proceedings, said, that the annual costs did not, as stated by the hon. Member, amount to 9,000 l. l.
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that it seemed they had not power to rescind a vote which was to give away the money of the people; but they had a competent power to rescind a vote which went to relieve the people from a part of their burthens. With regard to the money to be voted for this West-India property, he should not vote for one farthing of it. Either these slaves were property, or they were not. If they were we had no right to meddle with that properly; if they were not property, we were not bound to give compensation for them. It was not like the case of the horses, to which they had once been compared, for they were not taken away, they were left on the farm. Aye, and his Majesty's Ministers had repeatedly said, and the right hon. Gentleman, who sat on a seat which seemed to inspire cheers of itself, that there would not be a smaller production of sugar after the emancipation than now. If the right hon. Gentleman had not said the slaves would work as well after emancipation as before, it certainly had been contended by others that free labour would be of advantage. He believed that to be a mistake. They would not work to any considerable extent but by compulsion. It was notorious that in parts of America, where the freedom of the negroes had been established, that when they were put on their own hands their numbers materially diminished. In the state of New York there had been fifty or sixty thousand of them when slavery was put an end to, but they had been diminishing from that time to this, and when he was in America the prospect was, that the race would be extinct in a few years. So that those who thought that after this measure the colonies would remain as they were, deceived themselves. He wished that they might, but he did not wish that this country should pay 20,000,000 l. l. 205
 Mr. Finn  said, that a great portion of the rental of Ireland came over to this country, and all that Ireland received in return was, the importation of five Englishmen as Bishops and two as Archbishops, who received there amongst them about 50,000 l. 193
 Mr. James  said, that being no lawyer, he could not follow the system of special pleading which had been observed, neither could he compete with lawyers in the debate. He had formerly said, and he still maintained, that, in spite of slavery, the slaves in the West Indies were better off than the labourers of this country. If the peasants of Ireland were as well off as the negroes of the West Indies, the hon. and learned member for Dublin might indeed give up his agitation, for it would
 217 And, like the baseless fabric of a vision, Left not "the rent" behind.
 Mr. O'Reilly  could not conceive how any man's heart could allow him to refuse to make some provision for the poor in Ireland, whatever might be his objections to the English system. He thought it was the duty of the gentlemen of Ireland, not to wait to see the result of experiments for the amendment of the English Poor-laws, but to take the matter into their own hands, and to devise a plan for their own poor. Whatever their excuse might be for not adopting the English Poor-law system, there could be no excuse for increasing the number of Irish poor. The consolidation of farms in a poor country, without capital, and with an absentee proprietary, had caused the greatest misery, and added largely to the number of the unemployed and destitute. In the discussion of the West-India Bill, he had heard a good deal about the attachment of the negroes to their buts, and of the great advantage they derived from their provision-ground; and when he heard this, he felt some regret that there had been so little sympathy for the Irish labourer, when the House passed a Bill to expel them from their cabins and potato-gardens. He could not conceive how a domestic Parliament, in a country with an absentee, and in a great measure an English, proprietary, could cure all grievances.
 Mr. William Tooke  said, that the single point the House had to decide upon was, whether they should revoke the will of the testator, and give an advantage to those I persons whom be was desirous of excluding
 191
 Sir James Scarlett  then moved the second reading of the Thellusson Estate Bill. The hon. and learned Member said, this Bill proposed to make certain regulations for the distribution of the property of the testator, who made a will dated 1797, devising his property to certain trustees, who were to purchase landed estates out of the income, which was to accumulate after defraying certain expenses. The testator left three sons, one the late Lord Rendlesham; and since the period of his decease, the family were reduced to poverty, whilst the immense property left by the testator was supposed to be accumulating; but out of the immense revenue the surplus of savings did not amount to 25,000 l. l. l.
 The Solicitor General  seconded the Motion. He entirely concurred in all that had been said by his learned friend (Sir James Scarlett). He could not see on what grounds the Bill could be objected to. The present generation of Mr.
 186
 The Solicitor General  said, it was now indisputable that gross misconduct had been proved by the last speaker on the part of the Middlesex Magistrates, and some strong measures would be necessary.
 The Solicitor-General  was not aware that any improper motives had been imputed to the Magistrates. There certainly had been some blunders; but he did not know that they were of a nature which required punishment.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet if Parliament was precluded from reconsidering a Resolution to which it had come. Did the right hon. Baronet mean to say, that after agreeing to a Resolution that a sum not exceeding 20,000,000 l.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  presumed that the whole of this money would be paid, and for the very reason assigned by the hon. member for Cricklade, who said that the salaries of persons holding public appointments were granted in the same terms. It was known that they always took the maximum, and he had no doubt that the same course would be pursued with regard to the purchase of West-Indian property. He thought the sum originally proposed as a loan amply sufficient as" a gift. When people talked of the prevailing distress, and of the burthens of taxation, as a ground for giving the smaller sum, the answer had been, that the honour of the
 206
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that, as the law allowed that the testator at the time of making his will was sane, it was not right or just, after a lapse of thirty-six years, to bring in a measure like the one proposed. According to the estimate of the celebrated actuary, Mr. Morgan, the accumulations would have been very considerable—say, up to 1825, nearly 3,700,000 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  would not, if this were an ordinary case, have supported the Bill, as it interfered with the jurisdiction of the existing Courts of Justice; but as it was an extraordinary case, he had no hesitation in giving the Bill his support. When he saw such an extraordinary, such an unnatural, he would almost say such an insane exercise of testatory power he could never consent to allow the dread of establishing any precedent to interfere with his sense of direct duty. The power in this case was so capriciously exercised, so contrary to sound sense, sound policy, and the common laws of humanity, that he could never think of opposing any measure which would have the effect of preventing some of the evil consequences. If the preamble of the Bill—"Whereas great legal expenses have been gone to in the management of the estate, &c.," was true, the subject required a deeper consideration than that given to it by the present measure. If it were true that the total amount paid in law costs and management expenses from the period of the testator's demise until the present time was, as stated in the schedule of that preamble, 178,827 l.
 Sir Robert Peel .—Technically speaking, undoubtedly the House could reconsider and retract from any Resolution; but at the same time it was a question
 203
 Sir Robert Peel  said, his vote would be given on one single ground, a very simple one, but on that account not the less binding. The House of Commons had come to three deliberate Resolutions; the two first declaring that slavery should be abolished in the colonies; and the third that a sum of 20,000,000 l. 202 l. l.
 Mr. Clay  would say only a few words in support of the petition. He would imitate the brevity of his hon. and gallant friend, although he could not hope to be so successful in his brevity; as he (Captain Dundas) had, in so few words, produced two unanswerable arguments. The petitioners stated, that in their parishes the wages of labour were depressed, and the Poor-rates increased, in consequence of the great number of Irish labourers, who displaced the native labourer; and of Irish poor, who became chargeable on the rates. Irish gentlemen were said to reside in this country in great numbers; but, unfortunately,
 194
 Lord Althorp  admitted there was a good
 199
 Lord Althorp  admitted the course proposed to be adopted was unusual; but, taking into consideration the peculiarity of the arrangements under which the grant was to be claimed, no better, if indeed any other, course could be proposed. The House had already agreed, that a sum of 20,000,000 l. l.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets had argued on the presumption that the opinion of the House was in favour of immediate emancipation, without any apprenticeship. Now that was not the case. The opinion of the House was shown to be, that the intervening apprenticeship should take place. It was absurd to suppose, that slavery could be postponed beyond the time prescribed. The Imperial Legislature having declared, that slavery should cease at a certain time, it was utterly impossible that the Colonial Legislatures should keep the slaves longer in slavery. There was, therefore, no danger to be apprehended on that account. He (Lord Althorp) thought, that in a case of such great importance as the present, such financial arguments as had been brought forward by the noble Lord ought to have no force. He thought, that nothing would be so unwise and impolitic as to make an alteration which would give the greatest dissatisfaction. It was true, that the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had resigned his office before this measure was brought forward, and as far as his opposition to this measure went, it was certainly much more persevering than he (Lord Althorp) could wish. He hoped, that the House would not assent to the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Weymouth.
 Lord Howick  said, that he had observed ever since he had a seat in the House that those who had to struggle against the cause of justice and reason were ever ready to support the weakness of their arguments by a personal imputation against those to whom they might be opposed. Such had been the case in the present instance. It had ever been the practice to apply selfish motives to those in opposition to their assailants, and he well remembered that his noble friend, the member for Devonshire had been attacked in the same manner during the discussions on the Reform Bill. It had been then imputed to his noble friend, that he had exempted Tavistock, Calne, and other places from the provisions of that measure from selfish motives; and when such attacks were made on him, they produced no other feeling in his mind than those of the most ineffable contempt, pity, and compassion for any hon. Gentleman who had no better arguments to advance than the imputation of selfish motives to others. [Mr. Patrick Stewart had never mentioned the noble Lord's motives, he had merely quoted his
 * † Ibid. ‡ Ibid. 214 l. l. 215
 Lord Sandon  said, that this was not a mere question of economy; the question was, how they could procure the object so much wished for—namely, the abolition of slavery. He thought, that they were more likely to accomplish that object by having the assistance of the Colonial Legislatures, than if those Legislatures worked against them. He hoped, that the House would not take a lesson of conciliation from the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He had never seen or heard of a single act of that hon. and learned Gentleman which tended to lead to that conclusion. He hoped, that they would not embarrass the question by raking up the recriminating matters of former years, but would join in endeavouring to abolish slavery in the safest manner possible; and that they would really endeavour to conciliate the West-India Legislatures, and not merely speak about reconciliation, like the hon. and learned member for
 218
 Lord Sandon  did not complain of the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as he had made an attack upon the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he wished to remind the Committee, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had before been attacking all the persons connected with the West-Indies, and he (Lord San-don) therefore, was not the person to cast the first stone. He was convinced, that the inquiries into the borough of Liverpool had substantiated all that he had ever contended for. He had never denied, that there had been, in former
 219
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he quite agreed with the object proposed by his hon. friend's resolution, for he thought that it would be inexpedient eventually to prevent the East-India merchants from sending over produce on the same terms as West-India merchants; and he only opposed its adoption because he considered that present circumstances were not propitious to its being followed up.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  submitted to the hon. Member opposite to consider whether it was worth while to press this Bill upon the House. To some of the propositions of the Bill he should decidedly object; and he confessed at once, that he had no wish to give a political bias to Corporations. There were especially two grounds of objection to the Bill—first, that it was proposed to be confined to boroughs having the right of returning Members of Parliament; and secondly, that it was not meant to extend it to Ireland. He thought, that before any measure on this subject was agreed to, they should wait for the Report of the Commissioners to inquire into Corporations. But for these general reasons, he should not wish to delay the Bill, for it was one that would completely suit the opinions of the constituency he had the honour to represent. But he thought they should not legislate without information, when they had the means of obtaining it. The Commissioners would give them a valuable fund of information, by the aid of which they might be able advantageously to legislate next Session.
 263
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that something which had occurred in the discussion of the last Motion made him anxious to introduce the Bill of which he had given notice. It had been observed, that in the Bill that had been just now the subject of discussion, Ireland was not included. Why, the Corporations of Ireland were so various in their constitutions, that it was impossible for any general Bill to be made applicable to all of them. The Corporation of the city of Dublin depended upon no one single form of Constitution, but every form united; so that without putting an end to it entirely, and making another, there would be no means of making it the subject of a general Bill. But in his opinion this should not be done, for it had all the elements of good government, and they wanted nothing but the proper means of remedying particular defects. The objection to the Corporation was, that it was not the Corporation of the city of Dublin, but of a small part of Dublin. It was the Corporation of a persuasion and a party. The remedy was, to make it the Corporation of Dublin generally, for it was the inhabitants at large who were liable to be called on for the means by which the town was to be maintained and protected. The elections of Magistrates had been popular up to the time of the usurpation. Two or three attempts had been made to deprive the people of that power; but they
 265 l 266
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the very grounds stated by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) made it incumbent on him, if he had any regard for the consistency of his Government, to oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. It was impossible for the House to legislate satisfactorily without inquiry, and if so, what was to become of this Bill after it should be laid on the Table? It was manifest, that at this late period of the Session nothing could result from it. It therefore appeared to him to be a most preposterous and childish course to adopt, to introduce a Bill for the sole purpose of gratifying the fancy of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He (Mr. Lefroy) trusted, the right hon. Secretary for Ireland would not unite with the hon. and learned Member, and sanction the introduction of
 269
 Mr. O'Connell , in reply, bore testimony to the honour and integrity of the Commissioners appointed on the subject of Corporations. He admitted, that they were men not likely to mix up their political opinions with their public duties. Indeed, he was sure, from his own experience, that though men might be appointed from a coincidence in the political opinions of those who appointed them, it did not follow that they, in the discharge of their duties, would allow themselves to be influenced by any other feeling than by a conscientious discharge of those duties; and he would, as an illustration, mention the case of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw, the Recorder of Dublin), who, though he might have been selected by a political body, acting in that selection from political feelings, had never, in any instance, allowed the discharge of his duties to be influenced by any feeling but that of a high sense of justice. As to bringing the Bill forward in the present Session, he would only state, that his object was to put the House in possession of it, and to give full knowledge of it to all parties concerned.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that with the understanding that the Bill should not be pressed beyond the first reading during the present Session, he would not offer any objection. It might at first view appear, that one general measure might be made to apply to the case of Irish Corporations generally, but upon reflection he was sure it would be evident to hon. Members, that the case of Dublin required a Bill expressly for that city. He was sure, likewise, that they would agree with him in thinking, that for Dublin there was required such a Reform in the Corporation, as would insure for that body the respect and sympathy of the inhabitants of that city—a matter of peculiar importance in a country circumstanced as Ireland was. In saying thus much, however, he requested that it might not be construed into giving any opinion upon the provisions of the Bill.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that but for the speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, he might have been satisfied with the reasons assigned by the hon. member for Northampton (Mr. Vernon Smith) on the last motion, against that now made by the hon. member for Dublin—for when it had been proposed to introduce a measure on this subject relating to England, the argument used on behalf of the Government was, that at the lime a Commission was issued to make inquiry into Corporations it would be premature and absurd to legislate before the result of that inquiry was known. That, however, was equally applicable to the present case, and he would refer on the point to the Report of the Select Committee on Municipal Corporations, which stated, 'Your Committee
 267 268
 Mr. Lyall  supported the original Motion. Justice to India, the markets of which were completely glutted with British manufactures, demanded its success. He was determined next Session to bring the whole question of the fiscal regulations, between this country and India under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. James Kennedy  hoped, that, in consequence of the Motion he was now about to bring forward, he should obtain from the Ministers a satisfactory explanation of the course they intended to pursue. Though there were many evils in this country, some of which were more burthensome perhaps than those of Corporation abuses, there were none which more required remedy. The existence of these evils, and their nature had already been shown by the Committee which had sat on this subject. In his opinion they could only be remedied by a reform similar in spirit to that which had taken place with regard to the election of Members of Parliament. His plan, therefore, was, to give to every 10 l 262
 Mr. Kennedy , after what had fallen from the noble Lord, would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Parrott  said, that a great deal of interest was felt throughout the country on the subject of this Motion. He trusted that his Majesty's Ministers would take effectual measures between this and the next Session of Parliament, to prepare a remedy for the abuses of Corporations; for these abuses were, in many cases, very great. No individual would be more grateful to Ministers than himself, nor any constituency be more pleased with such a measure than that which he had the honour to represent.
 Mr. Davenport , as the representative of a populous and extensive manufacturing district, felt bound to support the resolution of the hon. member for Liverpool, but he would only trouble the House by referring to one of those simple facts to which the hon. Member had drawn the attention of the House. In that populous district which he had the honour to represent, the articles of sugar and coffee, and he might also add tea, had become almost as much the necessaries of life as the article of bread itself, and he should, therefore, vote for any measure which would tend to give them at a cheaper rate. He confessed he felt some alarm when he heard the noble Lord (Althorp) give notice that he should provide for the large sum voted to the West-India interest, by a duty on colonial produce, but he entreated the noble Lord, if such was his intention, that the articles of sugar and coffee might be exempted. Another important object to which he begged attention, and he thought the House would consider it deserving of attention, was, that cheap sugar, and cheap coffee and tea, would do more towards remedying the evils of beer-shops and gin-shops than any other measure whatever. On these grounds he
 261
 Mr. Ewart  was rejoiced to hear the noble Lord was not pledged on this great question. Relying on the practice as well as the professions of the Government, he would trust to that assurance, and not press his motion to a division.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move a resolution, "that it is just and expedient to admit the sugar and coffee of our East-India possessions (the produce of free labour) on equal terms with the sugar and coffee of the West Indies and Mauritius." He referred to the grant which had only last night passed the House, which the present age deemed an act of generosity, which after-times might designate as an act of prodigality; but, under either title, the claims of the country for more unrestricted commerce were confirmed by it, and he thought it gave to the subject now before them a peculiar claim to the consideration of Parliament. The principle that no disadvantageous distinction of duty should prevail against our eastern colonies, was conceded in the case of certain articles. Why should it not be conceded in the case of colonial produce generally? Wheat and flour, the produce of India, came in under equal duties with the wheat and flour of Canada. Why should our East India sugar pay 32 s s d d s s d 257 d 258 l 259
 The Solicitor General  thought, that the state of the new constituencies should be placed within the scope of the inquiries of this Commission. The borough which he had the honour to represent did not labour under the evils of the old Corporations, but it stood in need of a new constitution. There were Magistrates connected with that borough against whom he would say nothing, for they were not present to defend themselves. It appeared to him, however, that a new constitution was ne-
 264
 The Solicitor General  did not agree, that it was an objection to a Bill that the hon. Member who introduced it did not intend to press it in the Session in which he brought it forward. He himself had found the advantage of such a course. He had brought in Bills at the close of a Session, not intending to do more by that than to put the House in possession of the nature and objects of them, by having them printed, and he was happy to say, that one of such Bills had lately received the Royal assent, and was now the law of the land; and he hoped, that the others would have a similar result. The case of the Corporation of Dublin was  sui generis
 Colonel Seale  seconded the Motion, and observed, that this Corporation Reform would carry into full effect the object of the Parliamentary Reform Bill. Corporations would then be more likely than they were now to second the views of a popular Minister.
 Lord Althorp  said, that his object in moving for a Committee this year was to lay the foundation for such a measure. A Commission was now appointed to inquire into the existing nature of Corporations, and he hoped that their inquiries would be made and concluded before the next Session of Parliament. No man could be more convinced than he was of the necessity of making a Reform in Corporations, and he should be sorry to remain a member of any Government who would not attempt it.
 Lord Althorp  considered the motion to be one of that kind which it was desirable the House should not entertain. He thought it would be most inexpedient for the House to come to a decision on this question at the present time. It was, as yet, impossible to foresee what might be the effects of the measure for the abolition of slavery in the West Indies, and, therefore, he thought it would be premature for the House to legislate at the present time, on the subject introduced by the hon. Member. In former times, when this question had been brought under the consideration of the House, the case stood in a very different situation from that in which it was now placed. At those periods the sugar of the West-Indies very much exceeded in quantity the consumption of this country, and he therefore always thought that the proprietors of the West-Indian colonies were more apprehensive than necessary, of the admission of foreign sugar. The price of their sugar in this country depended on the price which sugar bore on the continent; and, therefore, they had no effectual monopoly in this country. The case had now, however, assumed a very different appearance. In consequence of the operation of the Slavery Abolition Bill, there might be a
 260
 Lord Althorp  said, that the Government, in appointing the Commission, were influenced by a feeling, that they did not possess the necessary information, or the materials requisite on which to found an extensive measure of legislation. It was necessary that, in some way or other, that information should be obtained. He was, in the first instance, disposed to think a Committee the proper means of inquiry; but it was found, that a Committee could not exercise all the necessary powers, and, accordingly, that plan was given up. Subsequently a Commission was issued, and under all the circumstances, he was sure the House would agree with him, that it was calculated to answer all useful purposes. He was sure, that the Commission would report on matters of fact alone, and no men could be better qualified than the Commissioners were to accomplish the purposes for which they were selected.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not, at the present advanced period of the Session, press the measure upon the House. In the last division upon the Bill almost all the Irish Members voted in opposition to it. When it was considered, that for the efficient working of the Bill it was necessary to have the concurrence of the Irish gentry, it could not be amiss to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that the opposition which the measure experienced was the result of a meeting of the great body of the Grand Jurors of Ireland, at which Resolutions were adopted disapproving of the Bill. The present measure had not met with the concurrence of ally one party in Ireland—on the contrary, the opposition to it was general—
 284
 Lord Duncannon  said, that there would be considerable advantages in passing the Bill this Session, while he thought there was much objection to postponement. He was free to admit, that when this Bill was last before the Committee alluded to, it was in an imperfect stale, but it had since received very considerable alterations, and might now be considered a much more complete measure. The effect of passing it during the present Session, would be to give the Grand Jurors and all persons concerned in the operation of the Bill a better acquaintance with the manner in which the business would have to be done, as it would not come into operation until the next summer Assizes.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think the Lords had made the Bill much worse than it was before they received it. It was a delusion to suppose that the people of Ireland would be satisfied with the Bill; the reform which they wanted was, that the burthens imposed on them might be lessened. It had been said, that only one sixteenth of the Irish people professed the faith of the Established Church. That, perhaps, was an exaggerated calculation; but supposing that one-eighth belonged to the establishment, was it not a grievous anomaly that the other seven-eights should be taxed for their advantage? The Protestants were said to have shown an alacrity in paying tithes. Now, how stood the fact? In the Protestant county of Armagh the arrear of tithes amounted to 29,000 l. l.
 Mr. Herries  objected to the proposition of the noble Lord, and should propose, instead, that a Resolution to this effect be adopted:—"That whereas Parliament has granted a sum of 20,000,000 l. l. l.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  observed, that considering the temper of the present House of Commons, and the possibility of another being assembled before the change now determined on could be perfected, he thought the West-Indians were well warranted in asking for such a security as the noble Lord proposed to give them. He trusted that his right hon. friend would not persevere in his objection.
 Mr. Hume  was disposed to support the objection of the right hon. Gentleman, and should resist to the last the grant of so large a sum of money at this moment, and independently of the authority of Parliament. He was surprised at the doubt expressed by the hon. Baronet, and thought such a doubt little less than an insult to Parliament. He did not believe that one farthing of the money would be wanted till Parliament again assembled; and when it did, the noble Lord might come down and propose the vote in a regular manner, and not attempt, in this irregular way, to obtain a grant from Parliament. The vote ought not to be given except on the performance by the West-Indians of the conditions of the Bill; and if the noble Lord waited till they were performed, or a distinct pledge given that
 292
 Lord Althorp  did not agree with the doubt that had been expressed by the hon. Baronet, and believed that any future Parliament, if by any accident there should be one before this matter was finally settled, would do that which this Parliament had determined should be done. At the same time he was not prepared to say, but that the West-Indians had a right to ask for some more satisfactory security; and, therefore, it was that he had proposed this Resolution. He admitted the irregularity of the present proceeding, but justified it on the ground of necessity, and called on the House to give credit to the Ministers, that they Would make the best arrangement they could in raising this money.
 Mr. Herries  thought that the House in acceding to the Motion would abrogate one of its moat important functions.
 Mr. Spring Rice  supported the Motion. The method adopted he acknowledged might be unusual, and not altogether constitutional; but the case was  sui generis
 Mr. Fryer  said, he could not stomach the grant of 20,000,000 l. 293
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  hoped the noble Lord would not press so important a subject in the absence of many hon. Members, who were absent on the understanding that it would not be brought forward that evening.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the course he had proposed last night, was that which was now about to be followed. He had said that he would not bring it on till after the Slavery Abolition Bill; and as that had been disposed of for this evening, he thought that, as there was so much lime now, it would be wrong not to bring the question forward.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to oppose the Motion, though he was not as well prepared as he should have been had he known that the question was to be brought forward that evening. He would state briefly the reasons why be would urge on his noble friend to postpone the question to the next session. The first was, that there existed no pressing necessity for urging this forward in the present year; and, next, there were many subjects of the highest importance which were fully sufficient to occupy their undivided attention for the remainder of the session. The subject of the Bank Charter was one which he believed was not fully understood, and certainly had not been fully discussed. He had every confidence in the integrity of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he must own that he had not the like confidence in his ability as a financier. He did not believe that the noble Lord was as yet thoroughly master of the subject. In the first place he differed from the noble Lord as to the time to which he proposed to continue the charter; for he certainly considered it a most erroneous policy to doom the whole monetary system of the country to the influence of a narrow monopoly for the term of twenty years. The only thing like the shadow of an argument which could
 294 Althorp: 295 296
 Sir Henry Willoughby  seconded the Amendment. His objection to the Bank was, that it was a great jobber in public securities, and he apprehended that under the increased power now conferred upon it, that corporation would regulate its issues of paper money, not in reference to the wants of the country, but with a view to the extent of its own engagements.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that his interest in the success of the Bank was but small, compared to the interests of the trade and commerce of the country; he, therefore, trusted that hon. Gentlemen would not think that he would make the interests of the country subservient to his own, or those of the Bank. It was not very correct to accuse Ministers of precipitation, since a Committee had for several months last Session sat upon, and inquired into, the Bank question; so that the charge upon that point, made by the hon. member for Stroud, was not likely to have any great weight with the House. As to the danger mentioned by the hon. Member likely to arise out of the connexion between the Bank and the Government—how could the hon. Member dread it? For how could he be so ignorant as not to know that no Minister could borrow 100 l. 297
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, that he should reserve to himself the right to propose an amendment in the Committee, particularly on the clause which went to make Bank notes above 5 l.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that his great subject of complaint was, that after a condemnation of all monopolies by the present Ministers, they now proposed to extend the monopoly of the Bank of England. He regretted much that the Bank was not confined to the same terms on which they held the present Charter, in place of enlarging their monopoly so far as to make their notes a legal tender. There would, in that case, be an almost universal concurrence in the measure, and the question might be disposed of in one month. It showed a want of sound judgment and discontent on the part of the Bank to grasp at such exclusive privileges. The hon. Alderman (Thompson) had read an extract from a letter from Lord Liverpool, but he omitted such parts of it as made against his case. At the lime that letter was written, the unanimous opinion was, that no exclusive privileges ought to be conferred on the Bank. Those very men who now proposed to extend their privileges, were the persons who at that
 298 299 l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 300
 Mr. Brodie  said, that though he was a country banker, he would, divesting himself of all private and interested feelings, discuss this subject upon public grounds. The noble Lord, he believed, had already stated, that he would postpone that part of the measure which related to country banks to next Session. He would just refer for a moment to what had fallen on a former night from the noble Lord in reference to country banks. The noble Lord then said, that he certainly gave a decided preference to one bank of issue over the establishment of numerous rival banks—that he did not bring forward his measure in consequence of any complaints that had been made with regard to the unfitness of the existing country circulation; but he proposed it in consequence of his impression of the utility of one bank of issue in supporting a paper currency and preventing fluctuations. Now, here was the admission of the noble Lord, that no complaints had been made against the country banks; and they had also the confession of the noble Lord's party, that there existed no grounds for such complaints. Then the question arose, why did the noble Lord wish to place the country in the situation the noble Lord now proposed? He, for one, hoped that the House would never allow the noble Lord to make such a tremendous experiment upon the credit of the country. The noble Lord talked indeed of fluctuations, and he had said that the object of estab-
 301 Essay on Banking
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that without any disrespect to the hon. Member who had just sat down, he did not feel it neces-
 302 303
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as regarded those parts of the Bill which related to the extending of certain privileges to the Bank of England, it bad his assent; and he should,
 304 305 s. s. l. s. Althorp l. s. l. s.
 Lord Althorp  denied, that any principle on this subject which had been adopted by him before coming into office had been abandoned in any provision contained in the present Bill: and he further denied that the Bank of England could be charged with jobbing with the public securities as had been stated. He was ignorant of any one fact which could expose the Bank to such a charge or imputation. The objection raised by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, to the clause for making Bank of England notes a legal tender, was not really a valid objection to the Bill itself, and that objection rested on the non-insertion of a preamble to the clause. It had been thought right, by the Government to bring into this Bill all matters directly affecting the Bank of England, and this clause, he contended, had been properly introduced. The right
 306 Robert Peel: l. s. l. s. l. 307
 Mr. Herries  agreed in the principle of renewing the Bank Charter, and should therefore vote for the second reading; but he wished to make the legal tender—as it was, and ought to be—a distinct and separate question. He had, on a former occasion, put a question to the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) on the subject; and, if he recollected right, the noble Lord's answer was, that the legal tender was no necessary portion of the question as to the renewal of the Bank Charter. The right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, had said, that if the Bank were not able to pay in gold, the Bank-note would cease to be a legal tender. Now, let the House imagine the condition of a man who received a Bank-note as a legal tender on Saturday-night, and found it not a legal tender on Monday morning—did that case not show that a legal tender ought to have intrinsic value, or be State paper, for the value of which the State was responsible? Did not that show, that the case supposed would be full of danger? He had heard no arguments in favour of the great change proposed, and many against it. The Bank of England would be exposed, at a time of real panic, to a greater danger than ever. He believed, that the quantity of gold in circulation would be diminished by the change, and that the Bank would put more of its paper into circulation than at present. The Bank would advance its paper at a cheaper rate also than it advanced gold. Its issues would be advanced on different securities too from those it now accepted. It would advance its paper, he believed, on mortgage deeds. He was reminded of a remarkable passage in a letter signed by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) himself, which stated, that the tendency of these measures would be to extend the circulation of the Bank of England. He believed—it was, indeed, quite certain—that it would extend the issues of the paper of the Bank of England, and diminish the quantity of gold in circulation. No more gold would be kept than was necessary. He believed an agio in
 308
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  declined to divide the House, because many of the Members who would support his Motion had gone away.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if he had been one of those who were of opinion that the revenues of the Irish Church ought to be exclusively devoted to its support and maintenance, he could not have supported this Bill, which he conceived had been brought forward on the principle that all revenues not absolutely wanted for such maintenance should be devoted to more urgent purposes. If, however, he rightly interpreted the sentiments of some noble Lords and hon. Members, he would declare them to be, that when certain sums were devoted to the use of a church, they must remain exclusively devoted to that service, notwithstanding
 289
 Mr. Littleton  observed, that this Bill had been before Parliament during two Sessions, and therefore he thought it had received ample consideration. He confessed that he had paid the most anxious attention to it, and the result was, he acknowledged, that he was wedded to its leading principles. If he were to postpone it, in order to visit Ireland in the interim, he apprehended that he must still approve of the leading principles and provisions of the measure now before the House. As to the absence of the Irish Members, he considered that it was occasioned by their not having any further or material objections to the Bill. He certainly could not, therefore, consent to any postponement of the measure.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that all parties in Ireland, whatever might be their political opinions, were against this Bill in its present shape. He admitted that there were some defects in the Grand Jury system; but to such a Bill as the present there were most decided objections. The Bill was not at present in a fit state to be carried into effect. He had communicated with many practical men upon the subject, and the objections urged by those were acceded to by men of all parties. It was not right that this measure should be thus hurried forward at the latter end of the Session, and when so many Irish Members were absent, he believed from the impression, that the Bill
 285
 Mr. Shaw  said, that as he had originally mentioned this clause to the noble Lord, and other Members of the Government while the Bill was in progress through the House of Commons, although he had not actually proposed the clause there, he could explain why the patronage
 290
 Mr. Hume  could assure the hon. and learned Member that the people of England were as little satisfied with' the Bill as the people of Ireland, They looked upon it as an abortion of Church Reform. After having abolished sinecures in the army and navy, were they to allow
 288
 Dr. Lushington  said, that this question of this verbal Amendment might easily be got rid of, if they would adopt his advice, and omit the clause altogether. This clause supposed what did not seem to him very probable—that the two Archbishops of Armagh and Dublin would differ about the disposal of their patronage. If, however, that should be so, he could not for the life of him conceive why the difference between two Archbishops as to the fitness of a clergyman to be presented to a living, should be decided by his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. In his opinion, such a case ought to be allowed to vest the right of presentation for that time in the Bishop of the diocess.
 Mr. Finn  said, although the Vestry-cess was abolished, yet that Ireland was still 190,000 l. l.
 Lord Althorp  then proposed a verbal amendment to one of the clauses, the effect of which he had previously stated.
 Lord Althorp  rose and said, that though the House of Lords had made some Amendments to the Bill, which he certainly did not think improvements, yet, as the principle of the measure remained unaffected, he thought it his duty to recommend the House of Commons to agree to them. A vast number of the Amendments were merely verbal; but of the substantive Amendments, one of the greatest consequence was that by which power was given in certain cases to allow a stipend to a curate for performing duties in a benefice which had been suspended. There was another Amendment of a substantive nature, which he was far from thinking an improvement to the Bill. It would be recollected that the House of Commons passed the Bill, with a provision that no church should be built in any parish in Ireland unless one-fifth of the money necessary to complete it was previously subscribed. To this clause the Lords had made an Amendment, leaving it to the discretion of the Commissioners
 286 287
 Lord Ebrington  said, that although he did not think that the Bill, as it was at present, was a good specimen of legislatorial wisdom, yet he did not agree with the hon. member for Middlesex that it would be so utterly worthless and inefficacious as he had represented it. He thought that the alterations in the Bill either in this or the other House of Parliament (although as he had said, they did not meet his entire approbation) did not affect materially any of those benefits proposed by it when first brought forward. He should certainly vote for the Amendments.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that when vigour was talked of with regard to Ireland, it should be recollected that that had been the system for the last 700 years. This was the first time in which a more conciliatory system had been adopted. Were the Government to blame for adopting this first step in the system of conciliation? No. What was the state of Ireland before it was adopted? There was one universal resistance to the payment of tithes, and soldiers had been obliged to come from Cork to Middleton, to put down that resistance. Attempts were made to enforce payment of tithes by horse and foot, and the country was almost in a state of civil war. The law processes were incessant. In 1832 there were, in the Common Pleas alone, 321 writs issued, and in 1833, these had increased to 572. In 1832, of the writs issued, only seven were at the suit of clergymen; but in 1833 there were 265, out of the whole number issued, at their suit. Tills went on in the same manner in all the three Courts, so that there were nearly 3,000 processes at the time of the Coercion Bill. The country was almost in a state of civil war, and the Government were obliged to interfere and prevent a predial insurrection. No Government had acted more wisely than the present Government had done in this instance; and in his opinion the advocates of the clergy, instead of blaming, ought to praise them for the course they had pursued. They had a good reason for their conduct. This would be a good foundation for a system of conciliation. Let this vote pass, and next Session let them agree to some measure that would lessen the burthen of the Church of Ireland upon the people of that country. This money never would be repaid—who was there to pay it? Let
 351
 Mr. Halcombe  felt it his duty to support this Resolution, though he might, by doing so, incur the censure of his constituents. He hoed, therefore, that if the payment of the money were decided upon, it would be in the shape of a loan, and not of a grant, for he thought that this country was already too much taxed to be paying any sums for arrears of tithes in another country.
 Lord Duncannon  was confident, that tithes never could be collected in Ireland under the present system, and he therefore thought some such arrangement as the one proposed highly necessary. He entirely approved of the Resolution, which should have his support; and, as to the security, the House would be enabled to judge, when the proposed Bill came before them, how far that offered by it was sufficient.
 Mr. Lennard  presented a petition, signed by 8,000 respectable inhabitants of Norwich, complaining of gross abuses in the Corporation of that city. The hon. Member referred to the petition that had been presented to that House, complaining of the return of the sitting Members, and alleging the existence of bribery on their parts, and of general corruption in the city of Norwich. The charge of bribery was undoubtedly disproved; but the allegations of corruption were completely borne out. There could be no doubt that a system of extensive corruption existed among the inhabitants of both parties; and he regretted that the evidence taken before the Committee had not been printed that the House might have determined whether or not it might not have been fit to take further steps to insure the purity of elections at Norwich. He repeated the election petition contained two allegations—the one of bribery against the sitting Members, which was disproved; the other of a general charge of corruption, into which the Committee would not inquire. He would not impugn their conduct, for which he knew there were precedents; but it was certainly natural that the petitioners should complain that half their charges were left untouched.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, the Motion which had been made would of course prevent him moving for the Committee of which he had given notice, as far as the breach of privilege was concerned. But the petition he had to present referred to two points; first, the breach of privilege; and secondly, the conduct of the Government in appointing the son of Sir John Key to the situation of Storekeeper in the Stationery office. He had no vindictive purpose whatever in view, and he should say nothing regarding the hon. Baronet in his absence, which he would not have said had he been present. The petitioners, twenty-six or twenty-seven in number, slated that they were engaged fairly in trade, and they complained, that by the late appointment of Master Key (a youth of eighteen years of age) to the office of Storekeeper, in which capacity he had to judge of the quantity and the quality of the goods sent in for the service of the Stationery Office, they were deprived of their chance of an equitable competition in their trade, as those duties ought, and could only be properly performed, by an individual of solid judgment and experience. This young gentleman filling such a situation, and his own father being a contractor for stationery, what security had the other portion of the trade that their wares would be fairly judged, or the public that their interest would be fairly and impartially considered? He looked, and it was the duty of the House to look, to the principle which was involved. If this young gentleman was only eighteen years of age, it was impossible he could enter into the bond required by law; and being so connected, it was nearly impossible that strict impartiality could govern his actions. He understood from the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that the young gentleman was no longer in office, and that neither the noble Lord nor Earl Grey was aware of his appointment. He could only, of course, suppose that Master Key had been appointed on the supposition that he had attained his majority; but, whatever were the circumstances connected with the case, it was absolutely necessary that the public should have a guarantee that it should not occur again. The petitioners prayed that their interests might be protected, in
 328 l
 Lord Althorp  said, that, of course, the House would expect him to give some explanation of what had taken place with respect to this appointment. The custom of the office had been, that the person who had been appointed under the Comptroller, in the situation lately held by the son of Sir John Key should have been engaged in the stationery trade, and they generally had been persons who had not succeeded in business. On the late vacancy occurring, the Comptroller stated his wish that a younger man than those generally appointed might have the place as the persons formerly appointed were not always equal to the discharge of their numerous duties. Mr. Key was appointed, not in the belief that he was eighteen, but on the statement that he was twenty-two years of age. On his appointment the Comptroller did not mention that his uncle was the person who had anything to do with the contract with the Government, but on the appointment being made, the Comptroller took care that the article to be furnished under the contract should be inspected by another person. The Treasury, however, had not the least idea, from the beginning, that the contract was in the hands of the uncle of the person who had been recently appointed. The arrangement he had mentioned was made by the Comptroller of the Department. He need hardly tell Gentlemen opposite, who were well acquainted with the nature of these things, that he individually, had nothing to do with the appointment, and that he was not aware of any of the circumstances
 329
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it appeared to him that the most strange part of the whole proceeding was, the Motion making it doubtful, whether Sir John Key was still entitled to be a Member of that House. He regretted that Sir John Key had been allowed to vacate his seat, for if the vacancy happened at all, it should take place in execution of the law, and not in avoidance of it. If Sir John Key had been a contractor with the Government, his seat was void by the law; and they ought to have an opportunity of knowing whether it was so; and he ought not to be permitted, by the interference of the Executive, to avoid the question, whether he was a fit person to have a seat in that House. This House of Commons dared not refuse to inquire. If the statement made in the petition was correct, he would venture to say, that under an unrefomed Parliament no Government would have permitted such a transaction, nor any House of Commons have allowed it to escape inquiry. The Act by which contractors were prevented from sitting in
 330 l 331
 Lord Althorp  trusted that, though he had already addressed the House, he might be permitted, after the attack which had been made upon the Government generally, and upon himself personally, to address the House again, and to explain the circumstances under which Sir John Key had obtained the office which had enabled him to vacate his seat. He would state the grounds under which Sir John Key had been permitted to accept the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds. He admitted that, under existing circumstances, he did not view the granting of Sir John Key's application for that office quite as a matter of course; but he likewise felt that the effect of giving that office to Sir John Key would not withdraw him from the liability which, provided he was a contractor, he had incurred, of being prosecuted for the penalties to which every contractor was subject who presumed to sit and vote in Parliament, and that it would not place him in any better position than that which he occupied at the present moment. On the best consideration that he could give to the matter—and the House would recollect that he had not any long time given him for consideration—he was of opinion that no harm could accrue from giving to the hon. Baronet the appointment which had enabled him to vacate his seat. Now, the right hon. Baronet had attacked his Majesty's Government as if they had knowingly given this appointment of storekeeper to a young gentleman of the age of only eighteen years and a half.
 Sir Robert Peel : No; I said that the Comptroller ought to have reported to the Government the age of the person appointed
 332
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not rise to defend the Comptroller, but the Government—for the imputation which the two right hon. Gentlemen had cast was cast upon the Government, and was cast upon the Government on this ground—that it had appointed an incompetent young man nearly connected with the contractor, to a situation, where he would have to control the contractor's supplies. He had not stated that the contractor had said that the young man's age was twenty-two. That representation had been made to Earl Grey when application had been made to him for this appointment. What he (Lord Althorp) had said was, that the Comptroller had not stated what the age of the young man was, and had not mentioned that he was in any way connected with the contractor. The Comptroller made an arrangement without any communication with the Treasury, by which the inspection of the paper sent in by their contractor was taken from the young man. He must add, that no person connected with the Treasury was aware that the contract was where it was, or that the young man was connected with the contractor. As to the appointment of a Committee, he had merely suggested that it was questionable whether the House ought to consider the matter as a breach of privilege, there being no longer a breach of privilege, in consequence of Sir John Key having vacated his seat. He assured the House that he had no wish to screen any party, and if any hon. Gentleman wished for inquiry, he would be the last man in the House to object to it. He appealed to the hon. and gallant Officer opposite whether he (Lord Althorp) had not written to him (Sir Henry Hardinge) that morning, and told him that he would not object to inquiry if it were demanded. He had only expressed a doubt whether, as Sir John Key, if he were a contractor, had rendered himself liable to heavy penalties for having sat and voted in Parliament whilst a contractor, it would be right to institute an inquiry into a matter which might afterwards become the subject of legal investigation. The tone which the right hon. Baronet had taken in the course of his speech seemed to assume that Government had done that which he admitted would have amounted to gross misconduct if they had done—namely, appointed the nephew
 333
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the assent which the noble Lord had just given to the appointment of the Committee was the very best answer the noble Lord could have given to the Motion. There was no reason why Sir John Key, because he shrunk from Parliament, should be allowed to get rid of the prosecution for penalties to which he had laid himself open by sitting and voting in Parliament after he had become a contractor. It was singular this first trait of a reformed Parliament—namely, that the brother of a Member of Parliament should get a contract from the Government, and then that contractor's nephew, the son of the Member of Parliament, should get a place where he had to judge of the mode in which the contract was performed, not for his merits, for they were unknown, but for his demerits, he being only eighteen years old, and without experience. How was it, he would ask, that this young man had got the place? Sir John Key had voted for the Coercion Bill, and for the Resolution which rescinded the vote of the House repealing the Malt-tax, and for those votes his son was rewarded with a place of 400 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was exceedingly gratified that his noble friend had given his assent to a Committee of Inquiry, for sure he was, that the more inquiry was made into the circumstances of this ease, the more would it contradict and refute the insinuations of the two hon. Gentlemen.
 334 335 336
 Lord Stormont  asked, whether Earl Grey, when he gave this place to the young man, was aware that the uncle of this young man was the person who had taken the contract?
 Sir Henry Hardinge  declared, that it was not his intention to do anything by which Sir John Key could be placed in a more prejudicial situation than that in which he had placed himself at present. He should be extremely sorry that any inquiry in the Committee should bring before the public such proof as would be necessary to support a prosecution against Sir John Key for the penalties to which he had rendered himself subject if he had sat and voted in Parliament after he had become a contractor. His object was, to do justice, and if blame attached to any quarter, to let that blame fall where it was deserved. He did not intend to bring any accusation against the Government. He had said, that ignorance or carelessness might be attributable to them, but after the letter which he had received from the noble Lord, containing his disavowal of the transaction, he did not think that it would be fair to make insinuations either against the noble Lord or the noble Earl at the head of the Treasury. Whilst he was anxious to appear to do nothing vindictive against Sir John Key, he still felt that he had a duty to perform towards the petitioners; and that duty he must perform by moving for a Select Committee to examine into the allegations of their petition.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  proposed to add to it this proviso:—"That where the legal quantity of provisions was not given to the slave, and that was made apparent to three Justices, and that where, on demand being legally made for such quantity, in consequence of an order issued by those three Justices, a refusal to comply with the order was given, an end should be put to the apprenticeship of the slave, and he should be released from his indentures."
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  objected to the Amendment. The principle of the Bill was to leave these minor details to the Local Legislatures, and it would be an unwise deviation from the general rule to fix a specific penalty for the violation of local enactments. He requested Mr. Fowell Buxton to leave it to Government to frame instructions to the Governors of the different colonies. If those instructions should not be attended to, then Parliament would be at liberty to interfere.
 Mr. Bernard  proposed an Amendment, to the effect that the laws applying to the apprenticeship of freemen should be applicable to the slaves when apprenticed, after June 1st, 1834.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  opposed the Motion. The laws as to apprenticeship were not in force in the colonies, and the Amendment, therefore, would be of no avail.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that the next consideration which he had to press upon the attention of the Committee was the necessity which existed for taking especial care to ensure to the children who should be born alter this Bill had passed, all the blessings of freedom to which they were therein declared to be entitled. Another consideration for their attention was, the fact that as the condition of slavery degraded and debased the human mind to a degree to render those who had once endured it scarcely capable of receiving that advantage from freedom which freemen ought to have, he thought that all children under the age of six years ought to be exempted from the term of apprenticeship, in order that they having altogether escaped the debasement consequent upon slavery, might arrive at manhood in a frame of mind equal to bear their free condition, and to avail themselves of that blessing. These reasons, he considered, were sufficiently strong to justify him in proposing an Amendment to the clause to that effect.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that perhaps he might be able to offer some strong objections to the hon. Member's intended Amendments, which would have the effect of saving the Chairman the trouble of putting them. In the first place he was ready to admit that the apprenticeship of the negro was a choice of evils, and was only to be looked upon in that light. In the second place, the apprenticeship of the negro infant was a humane provision intended to guard against the possibility of
 338
 Dr. Lushington  said, that if he thought the clause was to extend only to destitute children, he should not object, but he feared that the effect would be to carry slavery to a much greater extent than was intended by the principle of the Bill. When he found that there was in most of the colonies, a fund for destitute children, and when he found that the number of whites relieved by that find was as nearly twenty to one compared to those of the black population, though the latter were so much more numerous, he thought it would be no great addition to the burthens of that fund if all the children of the black population who might be left destitute should be thrown upon it. Even if it were a small increase of expense, and he did not think it could be very great, it would be better to adopt that course than place the children in such a state of half bondage until they attained the age of twenty-one years.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the children thus apprenticed would be in the same situation as apprenticed labourers. The clause was, that if any such children under six years of age should be destitute—that was, without parents or any friends to claim them—the special magistrate should be authorized to apprentice the child to the master, or to any other person, as circumstances might render necessary.
 Dr. Lushington  was not satisfied with the proof that the child would not be able to support itself. [Mr.  Stanley
 Mr. Briscoe  took the same view of the case as the hon. and learned Member who spoke last, and would take the sense of the House on the clause.
 Mr. Hardy  proposed that the indentures of female apprenticed negroes do expire when they reach their eighteenth year; that being a marriageable age.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  saw no reason whatever to assent to the Amendment.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  wished to know whether Government had received information from Jamaica of any disposition on the part of the legislative assembly to defray the expense of rebuilding the chapels that had been destroyed in that island?
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not say that he had heard of any such steps having been taken; but the subject would be one of the earliest submitted by the Government to the consideration of the local Legislature.
 Lord Althorp  brought up the clauses providing for the raising of the grant of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Hume  asked whether Parliament was to have a control over the terms of the loan?
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the contract made by the Government would be final, but Ministers would be liable to the censure of the House if the terms were disapproved of.
 Mr. Hume  thought that Parliament should have a control over the terms of the loan—at least the House ought to know the plan of providing for the interest.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the interest must be provided for by Parliament at the time: he had frequently before stated that the mode contemplated was by a tax on colonial produce. When the contract for the loan was made and charged on the Consolidated Fund, he was sure that if a necessity arose for supplying any deficiency in the Consolidated Fund, Parliament would be prepared to do so; but he did not know that there would be any necessity fur a new tax at all: the revenue was progressive, and would necessarily continue so (such was his opinion). However, if a new tax should be necessary to provide for the interest, it would be for Parliament to decide in what manner it should be imposed.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether the contract would be open.
 Lord Althorp  answered that it would: there was a provision in the clauses he had brought up to that effect. However, there was one exception to an open contract, which was, in case the Commissioners for the redemption of the national debt should be able to undertake the matter without going into the market at all.
 Mr. Wilks  was not unwilling to pledge the Legislature to a grant of 20,000,000 l
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the mode in which it was proposed to raise the loan would be the most advantageous both for the West-India proprietors and the public. It would enable the Commissioners for the management of the national debt to make the best bargain they could for the public.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that Parliament had always, in the instance of former loans (and of loans, too, of a far greater amount), reserved to itself the power to determine the terms on which the loans should be raised, without trusting altogether to the discretion of Government; and he thought that practice should be still adhered to.
 Mr. Cayley  would certainly oppose the attempt to throw the burthen of the tithes upon the landlords of Ireland. The money required ought to be taken out of the surplus fund of the Church, and the first million received by the Commissioners ought to be set apart for the purpose.
 Mr. Charles Buller  opposed it, as a measure which was calculated to do more injury than good to the agricultural labourer. Me moved as an Amendment, that it be read a second time that day three months.
 Lord Althorp  had before consented to a similar Bill for a short time, in the hope that in the interim some more general measure might be adopted, and he now gave his assent to the present, in the same hope, that before its expiration, Parliament might have time to pass a more general measure on the Poor-laws. He looked upon this merely as a temporary measure, and not as one which he should wish to sec the general law of the land. It had done some good in places since it had been in operation; but he admitted, that it was only a palliative of an evil which it could not permanently remedy.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the speech of the noble Lord was one of the most un-
 358
 Mr. Ord  opposed the Bill. He lived in an agricultural district, and had not found it work well. He objected to it on the ground, that it was one of those palliatives which, in the result, would do more harm than good. He hoped, therefore, it would not be pressed.
 Mr. Strutt  said, though it might relieve for a time the distress to which it was to be applied, it would, in the result, aggravate that distress by destroying the independence of the labourer.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  supported the Bill from the experience he had had of its operation in several districts to which it had been applied, and hoped that it might be allowed to pass.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought the Bill bad in principle and bad in operation. It was one of those instances of legislation in which, though the benevolent intentions of the parties introducing it must be admitted, he thought the House ought not to concur, seeing that it could tend to no practical result. The present was not a mere re enactment of the former Bill, it went to extend the principle of that Bill, and as he denied that principle, as he did not think it right in theory or practice, and, moreover, as it tended to destroy the independence of the labourer, he should give it his opposition.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that if the matter were  res integra
 Sir Harry Verney  supported the measure as one which had worked well in many parishes in Buckinghamshire, and so much satisfaction had it given, that the decision of the House respecting it was anxiously looked for by many parishes. It should be recollected, that it was wholly optional,
 359
 Mr. Marryatt  admitted, that in principle it was as wrong to interfere between the farmer and the labourer as it would be to say to a manufacturer how many men he should employ. The Bill was, however, to be defended only as a temporary palliative to an evil to which he should hope to see a more general and permanent remedy applied.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  objected to the Bill, as one by which the large farmer and landholder might be enabled to throw upon the small farms and the shopkeepers those labourers for whom they themselves had no employment. What could a poor shop keeper and a poor widow lady do with three labourers who might be thus thrown upon them for support?
 Sir Charles Burrell , in reply, said, that in those parishes in which the Bill had been carried into operation it had given great satisfaction to all parties. He had never urged it other than as a temporary measure, to be applied only until some general measure should be adopted.
 Lord John Russell  said, that of the only two courses open to the Government for the settlement of the question of tithes, they had, he thought, made choice of that which would prove the most advantageous. He was convinced, that for the Government to proceed with the collection of tithes would be highly inexpedient, inasmuch as it would necessarily lead to the expense and discord which attended the harassing war fare which took place in Ireland last year, as well as to that description of resistance which had already been attempted. A repetition of such a course would, he was sure, be highly imprudent; and he therefore approved of the other mode—that which the Government had adopted—of relieving the parties now oppressed, by means of the proposed grant; for, notwithstanding all that had been urged against the Irish Church in general, he had never yet heard that the claims of the present incumbents had been denied.
 Mr. Divett  observed, that all the arguments of the hon. and learned member for Dublin showed his belief that the sum now advanced would not be repaid. After that, could that House be called on to vote one million of Exchequer Bills, and to do what? Why, to bolster up the Church of Ireland—a Church against which all the feelings of the Irish people were arrayed. He agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, that the demand for this sort of advance would never fail. The hon. and learned member for Dublin spoke of this as buying peace for Ireland. If he believed it would do so, he should consent to the vote; but as he was quite sure it would purchase rebellion, he should give it his strenuous opposition.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that in submitting the statement which he was about to lay before the Committee, it would be necessary for him, in the first instance, to give them an estimate of the amount of arrears of tithes that remained due in Ireland for the years 1831 and 1832, and also of the amount of arrears of tithes due for the year 1833, for the total amount of which the measure he was about to introduce went to provide. Some weeks ago his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had called the attention of the House to this subject; but at that time his noble friend was not prepared to state the precise amount of the sum that Parliament would be called upon to advance, and as, since that period, a desire had been expressed by the House that impropriate tithes should be included in this arrangement, it was necessary to ascertain the amount of such tithe due at present. Early in the Session an account of the amount of tithes
 342 l data l l l l l l 343 l l l l l l l s d. l l s d l s d 344 l s d. l l l l l 345
 Mr. Littleton  regretted, that the objectors to this plan had not favoured the House with any suggestion instead of it. If this Resolution were rejected, the fault would not lie with the Government, but with the House.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Littleton) should understand, that he (Mr. Shaw) had not moved for the Return of the arrears of tithe with any reference to the present measure, but previously to the announcement of any intention by his Majesty's Government to introduce that measure, and with a view to lay open the system of injustice and resistance to the laws under which the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland were suffering. He (Mr. Shaw) did not, however, materially differ in his calculation of the amount due, and now to be provided for from that which the right hon. Gentleman had come to by a different process. Setting off the number of benefices not returned at all, which appeared to be 157, against the arrears of 1829 and 1830, which were included in the Return, but which of course were not a part of the sum now to be estimated, there remained in round numbers 500,000 l l l l 346 347 348
 Mr. Sinclair  thought, that the House seemed to have scarcely any other duty to perform, than that of voting away millions of the public money—a system which it was high time to check. He considered this grant as very impolitic and unjust—impolitic, because it operated as an encouragement to resistance both active and passive—unjust, because the loss would inevitably fall upon the people of Scotland and of England, who had obeyed the laws, and paid their full share of all the public burthens, including the dues of their own clergy. It was also hard, upon such of the Irish people as had already paid their own tithes, and would now have to contribute towards making up the deficiencies of their more refractory neighbours. Whereas, if they had set the laws at defiance, their own tithes also would have been paid at the public expense. Such a system could not restore peace to Ireland, and would prove an incitement, both there and in Great Britain, to resist just demands, in the hope that the Government would impose the payment upon the country at large. He quite agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Oxford, that this measure would serve as a premium upon lawless proceedings; but he differed from the conclusions at which his hon. friend arrived—being determined to vote against the grant which his hon. friend intended to support. It was not to be expected, nor would it be just, that the advance should ever be reimbursed by the Irish landlords—or could be
 353
 Mr. Aglionby  could not see any means by which the money could be repaid, and therefore he agreed with those who thought that this would be a grant, and not a loan, and he believed that, if once adopted, this course must eternally go on while the Church establishment was forced upon the majority of the Irish people against their will.
 Mr. Briscoe  said, that if the Resolution were merely waste paper, it was needless for the Committee to be called upon to vote in favour of it. The sum required was to pay the arrear of tithes in 1831, 1832, and 1833, with certain deductions at so much per cent; and it really seemed as if the House of Commons had nothing to do but to vote away the public money, without at all inquiring where that money was to come from. The people of England had none to spare, more especially for the lay impropriators, who had not a shadow of claim.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that if the matter was as the noble Lord supposed, there could be no objection to the House adding to the Resolution, that they agreed to it on the contingency, that this Bill, when produced, should satisfactorily provide for the repayment of the loan. Ministers could not be ignorant that there was a strong feeling among the people of England against tithe, especially in the agricultural districts. He thought that, at all events, they would not be more willing to pay the tithes of the Irish than their own; and although the grant was proposed in the shape of an Advance, there could be little doubt, that, like the loan to the West Indies, it must end in an absolute gift.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the present
 356 l
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had stated he should show how tithes, from which this advance was to be repaid, were to be collected. He doubted much if that could be done. He believed, that this money would be lost to England. And for what was it to be paid? To bolster up the Church Establishment against the best feelings of the country. The hon. and learned member for Dublin asked them to give the money at once, in order to continue the non-payment of tithes for another year, and then they would never be paid again. He (Mr. Hume) had always told them, that that would be the case. The people of England would do the same; and if they were to be called on to pay what other people ought to have paid, they would be silly not to do it. They were now distinctly told, that the money never would be repaid. Under these circumstances, could they think of granting it. The whole scheme of repayment ought first to be laid before them. He should propose, therefore, that the Chairman should report progress, in order to give the Ministers time to lay the Bill before the House, that they might form their own judgment on the matter.
 Sir James Scarlett  thanked his hon. friend for giving him an opportunity of rebutting in person the many atrocious calumnies which had been advanced against his noble friend and himself. Nothing could be more false and unfounded than the imputations which had been thrown out on the subject. As far as he had any knowledge of the case, there never had been an election for Norwich to which such imputations were so little applicable. It
 326
 Sir Robert Inglis  could not imagine that the hon. and learned Member could conceive that those who advocated the interests of the clergy in the House, and the great majority of the people who were their supporters out of the House, could agree with him in the opinions he had just expressed. The hon. and learned Member called this the first step in the system of conciliation towards Ireland. Was not the measure of 1829 so regarded by him at the time it passed? Had not the measure of 1793 and 1778 been so regarded? In every one of these instances the measure had been called the first step towards conciliation, and that expression had been kept up till each measure was passed; but immediately afterwards it was forgotten, and a new grievance was started, and every previous attempt at conciliation was then denied. He objected to the principle of the present measure, for he looked upon it but as a premium to disobedience of the law. He feared, too, that in that, as in other instances, the demand and supply would be found to equal each other; and every three years, he had no doubt, they should see the Irish Secretary coming down to the House with a proposition like
 352
 Sir Robert Peel  said, before this million was voted, it was absolutely necessary they
 349 350
 Lord Althorp  added, that the adoption of the Bill, to be founded upon the Resolution, would, of course, depend upon the kind of security it offered for the money: if that security were not approved, the Bill might be rejected. The forms of the House required that the vote should first
 355
 Lord Althorp  said, that the passing of the Resolution must be preparatory to bringing in the Bill; and when the House saw the Bill, if they did not think that there were any means of recovering the money, it would be in their power to reject the Bill, at any stage of its progress. At the time when this measure was first announced, it was stated that the Government intended to bring forward a proposition which should prevent, in future, the collection of tithes in the old way. The continuance of that system might bring the utmost confusion in the country. He could assure the House, that they came with the expectation and the determination that the measure they intended to propose should procure the repayment of this advance. If the occupying tenant was to be made to repay it, the same consequences as before would follow from the same causes. They proposed, therefore, to follow a different course. They intended to follow up the Composition Bill of the last Session. If they were right in passing that Bill, the application of the same principle on a more extended scale must be advantageous. The tithes of this year would be spread over a period of five years, and would be added to
 354
 Lord Duncannon  said, the Grand Jury sat not only while the Judges were sitting, but when they were absent. It was absolutely necessary to compel the foreman to inflict the fine, otherwise he would not do
 361
 Mr. O'Connell  bore testimony to the fact, that at least half a dozen times during each Assize the Judge was applied to, and as soon as the absent Jurors were fined, an immediate attendance took place; and it followed, almost as a matter of course, that his Lordship was applied to for a remission of the fines. It was of more consequence that the power should be vested in the foreman of the Jury, during the absence of the Judge—for instance, before the arrival of the Judge at the assize town.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle , as Chairman of the Committee on the Stafford Bribery Election, reported the Resolutions which they had agreed to—as follows, "That it appears to the Committee, that the evidence taken before them establishes a case of such open, general, and systematic bribery and corruption, that it is expedient that the borough of Stafford should cease to return Members to Parliament."—" That the Chairman be requested to move for leave to bring in a bill to disfranchise the borough of Stafford." He had ever considered it his duty, and the duty of that House, to make an example of any place in which gross and notorious bribery had been committed. If the present flagrant instance of depravity were passed over without punishment, a baneful precedent would be set to other boroughs to continue the same corrupt practices. He admitted that there was a difficulty attending such cases, but that ought not to deter them from doing their duty, and from proving to candidates, and to the more respectable portion of the Burgesses, that they
 362 l s l l l 363 364 l 365
 Lord Duncannon  said, he had some Amendment to propose in the 30th clause which was under discussion on the last day this Committee sat. He thought it was highly desirable that Grand Juries should be called over, and their attendance enforced, in order that not a less number of Grand Jurors should be in attendance than was necessary by law for finding a bill of indictment. By the clause as it now stood, each Grand Jury were to be called over morning and evening; he proposed instead, that they be called over every morning, and at such other periods of the day as the foreman should deem requisite, provided that at those periods there was a less number present than were required by law to pass a bill, which he understood to be thirteen. Another Amendment suggested by the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin, to which he (Lord Duncannon) was disposed to accede was, that the penalty on a Grand Juror for non-attendance should be forty shillings instead of five pounds.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  asked whether the right of examining letters had not been expressly disavowed by the noble Postmaster-General, and whether the hon. Member did not say that he was satisfied with that?
 Mr. Charles Stuart  said, that he had
 378
 Lord Lowther  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord with regard to the laws relating to the Post-office. Many and well-founded complaints had been made as to the laws and regulations of the Post-office. He would refer the noble Lord to the Report of the Revenue Commissioners in 1818, who recommended a consolidation of all the Acts relating to the Post-office. The Acts at present in force relating to the Post-office amounted to no less than 101; and when, therefore, any one had occasion to refer to the law with respect to the Post-office, he was placed in the greatest possible state of perplexity.
 379
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that it would no doubt be a source of great regret indeed to his noble friend the Postmaster-General, to suppose that any possible neglect in the department over which he presided should have delayed, even for a single week, the transmission of those elaborate compositions which the hon. Member intended for publication in the Register. [Mr.  Cobbett: 380
 Mr. O'Connell  said, none of the arguments of the hon. Baronet had shown that the Act was operative and effective, or could be made so. In fact, it could not. What had happened in Ireland? Why twenty-five Acts had been passed against the Irish entering into foreign service, threatening them with all the horrors of drawing and quartering; and, within fifty-years after the Treaty of Limerick, 144,000 Irish had perished in the service of France. The present Act was a most clumsy contrivance. It could not be executed. Parties offending against it could only be convicted by the evidence of an accomplice, which was precisely that sort of evidence a man would not like to trust. This Act was imperative on nobody. It bound neither the Crown nor the people to execute it. The Crown could dispense with it by a proclamation, and it exposed the Crown to suspicions. The party
 385 386
 Colonel Evans  would not quarrel with the essays of morality which had been pronounced by the hon. Baronet, the member for Oxford, though he must complain of the comparison on which the hon. Baronet had placed the gallant heroes who would serve in a good cause with the buccaneers and condottieri of former times. The buccaneer had served solely with a view to plunder, and with a total indifference as to the cause in which he served; not so in the case now before the House. Neither could the individuals affected by the Foreign Enlistment Bill be put in comparison with the condottieri, for, unlike that body, they did not serve the cause which could pay the best. If any man could bring himself to believe, that the cause of Don Miguel was just, it would be an injustice to prevent others from embarking in that of Don Pedro. In every point of view, he considered the repeal of this Act desirable, and particularly as the employment of officers in the British service in warfare would contribute, in case of need, greatly to the efficiency of the army of this country. The navy of this country had been much strengthened by the recent achievements of Captain Napier, as it had previously been by those of Lord Cochrane, in the cause of freedom, and it was expedient to repeal a Bill which had been inoperative for good, but operative for evil purposes. The Bill originated twenty years ago, in a wish to prevent the service of British subjects in the South American war; yet 20,000 English subjects had been engaged in those wars, which had not only damaged the commerce of this country, but also had greatly prolonged the horrors of those wars. So, also, in the case of Greece, with regard to which there was a declared neutrality on the part of the Government of this country; yet when the contest continued, the Government had found it necessary to interpose. This would not
 387 l l
 Mr. Kemyss Tynte  supported the Motion, and deprecated the comparison upon which the hon. Baronet (the member for Oxford), had placed the British sailors with buccaneers and condottieri; the first fought for the cause of liberty, and the latter for those who could pay the best. He should vote for the Motion if it only had the chance of restoring Captain Napier to his rank in the British navy.
 The Attorney General  reminded the House, that the funds, the distribution of which was to be inquired into, were not corporate, but private property. Every day a Court of Equity dealt with, and decided such questions, and the parties were put to their oaths upon the subject. The House could not take into its hands the administration of charities, which belonged to the functions of a Court of Justice. If the Corporation of Leicester mal-administered the funds, it was liable to an information  ex officio
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex, had made out no case to justify the demand made for the production of those papers, which, though in some degree public, were also somewhat in the nature of private communications. The hon. Member had said, that there was great discontent in the colony, in consequence of the proceeding to which he had adverted; but he had not gone into detail, and he (Mr. Stanley) trusted, the House would dispense, at that hour, with any details of the local politics of Upper Canada. He concurred with those who contended, that the Government had a right to the full and cordial support of its officers; but the Government themselves could be the only judges what did and what did not constitute a support of their measures. The two functionaries in question had not been objected to on any ground connected with the mode in which they had discharged their official duties; and as to the support of opposition which they gave to Government, they were, he thought, matters with which the House could not well interfere.
 Mr. Chetwynd  hoped, that the House would agree with him, that before leave was given to bring in this Bill, it was necessary that a case should be made out, not only of the strongest nature, but founded on facts and evidence of a most distinct kind, and which were incapable of contradiction. Now he must assert, that the hon. member for Buckingham (Sir T. Freemantle), had established no such case as that in the present instance. The House ought to look narrowly into the statements made before the Committee. Some of them had been made willingly, some upon compulsion, some under strong feelings of jealousy, and some from equally strong feelings of disappointment. His friends had been compelled to adopt measures which they knew to be improper and unconstitutional by the proceedings of the opposite party. As to the list of which the hon. Baronet had spoken, he should be able to prove, if an opportunity were afforded, that the names of many persons were inserted who had never received a farthing during the last election. It had been said, that no man could stand for Stafford who was not prepared to bribe. Now Major Hawkes had stood, and he had over and over again declared that he never would give sixpence. [Sir  T. Freemantle: 366 l
 Mr. O'Dwyer  was prepared to prove, that the officers of the Post-office in Ireland were engaged in a traffic by which they defrauded the revenue. He knew that Clerks of the Roads—and he had documents to prove it—sent unstamped publications when they were ordered, through these Clerks of the Roads, free of postage. He had circu-
 381
 Mr. O'Dwyer  would most readily place his documents in the hands of the noble Lord, and prove the statements he had made.
 Mr. Edward Buller  seconded the Amendment. He admitted, that the borough was not immaculate, but the remedy proposed by the hon. Baronet went beyond the disease. The object was, to prevent the recurrence of such offences, and he should be glad if every man who had taken a bribe, could not only be disfranchised as respected Stafford, but every other part of the kingdom, and marked for life as unlit to enjoy the privilege of a vote. It was not just, however, to punish the innocent with the guilty, and for that reason he objected to the total disfranchisement.
 Mr. Littleton  agreed, that the people of England ought not to be called upon to support the Irish clergy as a general rule; but the present money was granted under peculiar circumstances of distress on the part of that clergy; and, besides this, there was every prospect that the whole amount of the grant would be ultimately repaid into the Exchequer, and thus the country would suffer no loss.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had never objected to the amount of the penalty, but to that part of the clause which made it imperative on the foreman to inflict the penalty. That power should be vested in the Judges of Assize, and not in the foreman.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with the hon. and learned Member, that the same power should be vested in the hands of some competent authority—say, the foreman of the Jury—but not a greater power than would be possessed by the Judge.
 Mr. Shaw  was opposed to that part which compelled the foreman to inflict a penalty on any Juror who was absent; it ought to leave in the foreman a discretion to fine according to the circumstances of the case.
 Mr. Finch  gave every credit to the valour of the gallant officers who had been mentioned, but he thought, on the consideration of such a subject, the interests of the State ought not to be forgotten. The House ought to pause before it did away with a law which might become essentially necessary, under a peculiar state of circumstances that might arise.
 Mr. Aglionby  strongly protested against the grant as most unjust, most impolitic, and most inexpedient. If the Irish clergy were so distressed as was described, let the over-fed portion of the clergy support their poorer brethren. The Irish Church Temporalities Bill had been in a great measure destroyed by the declaration that the Temporalities of the Church were to be dedicated solely to Ecclesiastical purposes; at any rate, let the support of these poor clergy be included in these Ecclesiastical purposes.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that the hon. Member was wrong in condemning the
 376
 Mr. Hardy  said, he would cordially give his vote for the total disfranchisement of the borough, because it was clearly proved, that there was not one-fourth of the electors who had not been bribed; and even that one-fourth, though the charge of bribery could not be brought home to them, had this at least against them, that they tamely looked on at the scenes of bribery and corruption which were going on around them, without taking any steps either to prevent them or to bring them before the public. Under a new and reformed Parliament it was peculiarly the duty of the House to visit cases of this kind with the severest punishment known to the law, and if it did not so proceed with the present case, it would be holding out an encouragement to
 368
 Mr. John Murray  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the 59th Geo. 3rd. cap. 69, commonly called the Foreign Enlistment Act. He had hoped that some person of more weight than himself would have brought forward this Motion; for there never was an Act of the Legislature so little in accordance with the general opinions of the country. Parliament, however, when it passed that Act, was influenced by reasons which now did not exist. It was strongly urged that the country had made a treaty with Spain in 1814, and that, in accordance with that treaty, we were bound in good faith and honour, to pass a law of that description. That was the strongest reason which was urged in favour of the measure at the time. Mr. Canning, who supported the Bill, stated that in the strongest terms, and that reason prevailed. The House was satisfied; but the law had never given satisfaction to the country. He condemned the law, because it was unjust, unnecessary, inexpedient, and not calculated to give satisfaction to any of the parties interested. It was unjust, because it was the natural right of every man, when his country did not want his services, or could not employ him, to carry his industry, his skill, his talents, and his arms, into the service of any foreign
 382 383
 Mr. Hume  said, that no Corporation had more misapplied its funds for political purposes than that of Leicester, and all that was wanted was full information. The House of Commons was the fittest channel for obtaining that information. It really seemed as if the Corporation was afraid of inquiry, and, therefore, did not like to produce the papers. All that was needed were facts, without the intervention of the Court of Chancery.
 Mr. Hume  protested against this grant as a shameful charge upon the funds of this country, and as contrary to every promise held out in the commencement of the Session.
 Mr. Robert Grant  considered the question before the House to be entirely independent either of questions of neutrality, or the effect of the common law; and it was practicable to vote for the repeal of the act in question, without broaching either of those topics, both of which had been introduced into the debate. It must be in the recollection of many hon. Members the grounds upon which the Bill had been introduced by Mr. Canning in the year 1814. Mr. Canning had then stated the Bill to originate in a treaty with Spain, under which the Sovereign of these realms had undertaken that no supply of arms, ammunition, or men, should be afforded from this country to South America, and that no security was afforded to the Crown for the fulfilment of this treaty without the passing of the Act in question. Though the Bill pledged the nation generally to neutrality, yet it never was intended to pledge its subjects individually from engaging, if they should so think fit, in foreign services; and reverting to the history of this country, he felt no hesitation in now giving his support to the present Motion. Without acceding to the accuracy of the law laid down by his hon. and learned friend who had brought forward the Motion, he should reserve to himself the right to discuss the provisions of the Bill when it should be introduced.
 Mr. Robert Wallace , in reply, repelled the attack made on him by Mr. Stanley, and denied, that he had seen any explanation of the circumstance mentioned in a Greenock paper. He reiterated his assertion, that letters should not be opened, as they were at present liable to be opened on account of the tax.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  had told the Postmaster General, that he should be satisfied if a stop were put to the practices complained of, at the same time, he thought, that, as the law now stood, the Postmaster General did not possess sufficient power to put a stop to them, though he possessed the power to sanction much evil. He blamed the law, not the noble Duke, who had acted as well as he could. He had in his possession a communication from the Board of Trade at Greenock, referring to a statement on the part of the Postmaster General, declaring that the practices complained of should not in future occur at Greenock or elsewhere. Another he should refer to was addressed to James Scott and Co., wine merchants, and it was folded in that sort of manner that it was absolutely impossible its contents should be known (as they were known at the Post-office), unless the seal had been violated. In conclusion, he thought it necessary to state, that unless he received an assurance from Government of their intention to take the subject up, he should, in the next Session, move for a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the Post-offices of Great Britain and Ireland. The hon. Member then concluded by moving for Returns of all instructions or directions from authority under which Postmasters were authorized to open or unfold letters, or apply strong lamp lights for the purpose of ascertaining or reading the contents of letters fastened by wafer or wax, or unfastened; and for various other Returns connected with the management of the Post-office.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  rose to move "for copies of the instructions under which Postmasters claim a right to unfold or open letters in all or any of the Post-offices of Great Britain and Ireland." His Motion involved a serious charge either against the Postmaster-General, or some one acting by his authority, who had, in order to discover a fraud, committed a felony in the opening of letters. He should prove this before he sat down. He had had two interviews on the subject of his Motion with the Postmaster-General, who had received him with great urbanity, but no adequate remedy was proposed for the evil of which he complained. There were some means adopted at present of getting at the contents of letters, a practice which, if sanctioned or continued, violated that secrecy and confidence on which the public relied in placing their letters in the Post-office. It would ill become him to bring forward a charge of this kind if he had not made himself master, to a great extent, of the proceedings of this great establishment. He would, therefore, read to the House some extracts from the volume which was before him. The House need not be alarmed at the great size of that volume; he had no intention of reading more than a very small portion of it. It was a report from the Commissioners of Revenue in 1829. It was an able and searching report, and made many very useful suggestions as to the Post-office; but, so far as he could learn, they had not been attended with any effect; neither had the previous recommendations made in the reports of 1788 and 1797, though very wise and salutary. The Report of 1829, spoke of the facility, of the great and quick communication, afforded by the Post-office, which it said
 370 l l l l 371 372 d d d 373 d d d d d James Graham: Thompson viâ 374 375 l
 Mr. Macleod  as a Member of the Committee, seconded the Motion, and expressed his complete conviction, that a case had been made out in evidence fully justifying this measure.
 Mr. Cobbett  would recommend the hon. member for Greenock (Mr. R. Wallace) not to have interviews again. They were very dangerous things. What he would say with regard to the Post-office was this—that a letter had been posted in the country addressed to him in London, which he had never received—that two witnesses could swear as to the putting the letter into the Post-office in the country—that the Postmaster there was ready to swear that he had received it; and yet the letter in question never reached his address. He made application to the General Post-office in London; but could get no account of his letter. It was a letter of some consequence, intended to be printed. He therefore had to complain of the General Post-office. It appeared in the present case that the Postmaster in Greenock stated, that he bad authority to open letters. If he had not that authority—if he had not the right to do so—he ought to have been punished. Had he been punished? There was no answer to that question. He would recommend all who had complaints to make to make them to that House. He believed that the Post-office read all the letters that it liked to read.
 Mr. Cobbett  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but merely to state, that he believed that the hon. Member was wrong in his law. The hon. Member had referred to Vattel, and some writer with a hard German name; but all those writers must admit, that the Government must have power to restrain its subjects and prevent them going into foreign service, or it would have no power to protect itself. The hon. Member contended that we ought to supply neither party with stores or men. Such was the doctrine laid down by the American Government during two wars, and on that doctrine it had successfully acted. With respect to officers starving, that could not be, for they had all half-pay; and as that half-pay was given them to retain their services in future for their own Sovereign, how was that compatible with entering a foreign service?' He said he did not mean to oppose the Motion; he only rose to say that he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong in his law.
 Mr. Cobbett , in explanation, said, that the law of the Holy Alliance, as this was called, went word for word with an Act passed eighteen months before by the American Congress.
 Mr. William Evans  observed, that his constituents wished to know the manner in which these funds were administered, and they had good reason to do so. The property was supposed to amount to 15,000 l l 391
 Mr. Ord  remarked, that a good deal of discussion had been saved by the general admission of considerable corruption in the borough of Stafford. He was for disfranchising the borough, and objected to throwing the writ into the adjoining hundred, by which the Member elected would be half Knight and half Burgess, while the nucleus of corruption would remain. He denied the correctness of the representations hitherto made, of the degree of corruption prevailing in Stafford. The cases of Hertford and of Warwick were, he contended, different from that then before the House; and he trusted that, whatever course might be adopted in reference to Stafford, it would not be made to form a part of any other constituency, for it would be most unwise, as well as most unjust, to make any attempt to mix purity and impurity together. Stafford had proved itself to be so corrupt, that no other body in the community could, with any show of fairness, be placed in connexion with the inhabitants of such a town. The great majority of the voters had been proved guilty of the offence of accepting bribes, and on that account, as well as for other reasons, he should decidedly object to any union of Stafford with Stone and Eccleshall.
 Mr. Wynn Ellis  contended, that this charity was a public trust, and that the House ought, therefore, so far to interfere as to order the documents to be produced.
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the Motion, and observed that he differed from the statement that there was no distress amongst those who had served their country. He would ask, was 250 l 388 l
 Mr. Halford  said, he rose to bring forward a Motion of which he had given notice, and the object of which was to rescind the order made in the month of May last. That was an order upon the Corporation of the Borough of Leicester, to lay before the House certain Returns relative to the amount of the income of some property left for charitable purposes, under the will of Sir Thomas White, in 1556, and also relative to the manner in which that income was expended. The value of those funds depended on the respectability of those to whom they were intrusted, and those trustees were amenable to the Court of Chancery for any abuses of which they might be guilty. If any evils existed, the Court of Chancery was the place in which to seek for the remedy against the trustees of a charity, and not in the arbitrary interference of this House. Besides this, these trustees might be called to account before the Boards of Commissioners acting under the authority of the Act passed to regulate charities, which Act was in full operation. In his opinion the trustees ought not to comply with this order, and he hoped the House would not think of confirming it. The charity was directed to assist individuals by the loans of money. These individuals were generally tradesmen, to whom such assistance was sometimes of the utmost importance, and whose names it would be invidious to disclose in the manner now required. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not exert its authority in this matter, which was only brought forward to gratify a turbulent faction in a country town. He moved that the order be rescinded.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  concurred in every word that had fallen from the noble Lord. Corrupt practices must be put an end to wherever they existed. The question before the House was, however, whether it was necessary totally to disfranchise the borough of Stafford, or by providing a numerous and sound constituency to prevent future mischief. There was a population of 20,000 near and about the town, in a rich and industrious country, comprising two populous and thriving towns within a reasonable distance. This was the more effectual and constitutional method of meeting the difficulty. The cases of Aylesbury, Shoreham, and Crick-lade, and others, proved that such treatment
 369
 Sir James Scarlett  was convinced that if the attention of the House could have been fully drawn to the order at the time it was moved, the order never would have been made. The House could not grant it without an improper interference with private property. If the trustees had been guilty of abusing their trust, the Court of Chancery, and not that House was the place in which to call them to account. No tribunal could be worse fitted for doing impartial justice in the case than the House of Commons, and he implored the Members not to set so dangerous a precedent. The Motion had his hearty support.
 Sir James Scarlett  had opposed the Bill in question when it was first brought forward, and experience had proved to him that it afforded no practical advantage. He must, however, remind his hon. and learned friend opposite (Mr. Murray), that, if he repealed the Bill generally, he would make that a felony which now only amounted to a misdemeanour. He was not disposed so much to differ from the law of the hon. member for Oldham. It was admitted, on all hands, that there was a power by the common law in the Sovereign to restrain his subjects from joining or engaging in a war, and after a proclamation, by making it a misdemeanour. He had ever thought that power sufficient. By the common law it was an act of felony for a British subject, after the proclamation of his Sovereign, to join the army of any acknowledged government; but this did not apply to revolted provinces, and hence it was, that, with regard to South America, complaints had been made by the Spanish minister, that the laws for the prevention of interference by British subjects were unequal. He should support the Motion so far as it went to restore the old common law of the land.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  was averse from hasty legislation in a case like the present. No doubt great corruption bad prevailed in the borough of Stafford; but the House ought to beware bow it set a precedent as to the mode in which such places were to be treated. If hon. Members were prepared to pledge themselves that they would deal out the same measure of justice to all boroughs—to Warwick as well as to Stafford—the course would not be liable to this objection. Let it be recollected that Stafford bad been honoured by the representation of men of the purest principles and most
 367
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but to protest against some of the doctrines of the hon. Member. The hon. Member spoke of men entering a foreign service as if they might abandon their country. He must object strongly to the doctrine of the hon. Member. The hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to the natural right of men to carry their talents, their skill, and their arms, into the services of foreigners for the purposes of war. He must deny that there was any such right. It was making that the common
 384
 Lord Althorp  was of opinion, from the experience he had of the Bill, that it was detrimental to the country, as well as inoperative in itself; and, therefore, he most certainly thought it should not remain on the Statute-book. Much had been said about a breach of neutrality as to contending parties, but he thought, if the laws of a country allowed its subjects to assist both according to their own feelings, there could not be said to be any breach of neutrality. He could conceive cases in which it would be the bounden duty of the
 389
 Lord Althorp  thought, that there could be no difference of opinion as to the principle involved in the Motion before the House. It certainly was the duty of the House, as the first meeting of a Reformed Parliament, to set their faces against any instance of bribery and corruption; and if ever there was a case of bribery and corruption clearly proved, it was in that now before the House. He, therefore, gave his cordial concurrence to the Motion.
 Lord Althorp  could assure the hon. Member, that the Clerks of the Roads were not authorised to forward any unstamped publications free. If they did so, those publications would be charged to them. Certainly, if the hon. Member could prove the existence of frauds—if be could prove that the Clerks of the Roads did commit these frauds on the Government—he should be most ready to receive the information, and make use of it.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not mean to object to the hon. Gentleman's Motion, at the same time, he must say, that a great portion of it might have been omitted, as the documents for which it called were documents that never existed. The hon. Gentleman was aware, that the Postmaster General had disavowed ever having given any authority to Deputy Postmasters in the country to open letters in order to ascertain where they were dated. But the hon. Gentleman handed to him, in proof, a letter across the Table; and he said, that it was impossible that the place from whence that letter was dated could be ascertained without opening the letter. Now, without breaking the seal or opening that letter, but in consequence of the awkward manner in which it had been folded, he, simply by looking into it, could, as easily as possible, read the word "Dublin," whence the letter was dated. But the Postmaster General had, as the hon. Gentleman was aware, disavowed having given to Deputy Post masters authority even to look into letters in that way, in order to discover their dates. The hon. Gentleman, however, must see, that the date of this letter might be discovered without opening it. The notice which the hon. Member had placed upon the paper had not certainly led him to expect such a statement as that which he had now made to the House, for that notice was for "copies of the instructions under which Postmasters claim a right to unfold or open letters in all or any of the Post-offices of Great Britain and Ireland." It was scarcely to be supposed, that, in bringing forward such a Motion as that,
 377
 Lord Althorp  could not at present give a pledge on the subject.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, in objecting to the Motion, he hoped the hon. Member and the House would believe, that his opposition did not affect the principle involved, and that he fully acquiesced in every feeling of reprobation which had been expressed on the subject of the disgraceful attacks on the religious establishments of one of the colonies. But the object which the hon. Member had in view, however desirable in itself, was totally distinct from the object of the present Bill. Incidentally with the present Bill, to be sure, the general toleration principles which obtained in England were to be sanctioned in the colonies; but the hon. Member wished to apply a specific Act where circumstances did not warrant the interference. It should be recollected that the disgraceful outrages which were referred to had occurred, not in all, but in one colony only, and it would be throwing an imputation on the other colonies, in which religious toleration was not only professed but practised, to introduce the clause into this general Bill. It was, how-
 410
 Mr. Hume  would take that opportunity of bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He could assure the House that, in offering himself to its notice at that moment he felt he was doing that which, no doubt, many Members would think unnecessary after the decisions to which the House had already come with respect to the House and Window-tax.
 415 l l l 416 l l s d l l l l l l l l l l l l l 417 l l 418 l l l l l l l l l l 419 l l l l 420 l l l
 Colonel Evans  seconded the Motion; and observed, that it might be disputed whether the House-duty was a Property-tax or not,
 421 l l s d s d
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not see how it was possible to introduce anything of novelty into a discussion of this kind, as this was the fourth time that the question had been under the consideration of the House during the present Session. The first discussion was upon a general Motion brought forward by the hon. member for Worcester; there was another discussion on it on a Motion brought forward by one
 422 423 424 l l pro tanto 425
 Mr. Alderman Wood , as a proof of the inequality of the tax, referred to the Bank of England, which, while it charged the public 40,000 l l
 Sir Samuel Whalley  was glad to hear, that the time would shortly come when this tax would be abolished. He did not know what new circumstances had arisen, as regarded the revenue of the country, since the noble Lord had resisted his (Sir Samuel Whalley's) Motion this Session for the abolition of this tax, to induce the noble Lord now to promise its reduction. The Government had since that time given 20,000,000 l l No
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord to state, that considering the extreme unpopularity of this tax, he thought it was one that the Government should look to as the first to be reduced in the next Session of Parliament, its place to be supplied either by a corresponding reduction of expenditure, or by the substitution of some other tax? [Lord Althorp was understood to answer affirmatively.] Under such circumstances, anxious as he might be to press his Motion, he felt it his duty to withdraw it.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was not prepared to agree to such a Motion at present, as, if it were carried, it would be absolutely necessary to go further than it did, and abolish the tax at once.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  begged to say
 427 l
 Mr. Ruthven  objected to the renewal of a Bill in its present form, from which so many injurious effects had arisen. The consequence of the former measure, which it was sought to renew, was, that vessels were constructed in such a way as to be enabled to carry more cargo than their ad- measured tonnage, and therefore, inferior vessels were built. The effect of this Act was, that British ships were so constructed, that they could no more compete with American-built ships than could a carthorse with a race-horse, and yet this was not to be attributed to any want of skill in the shipbuilders of this country. He was of opinion, that a Committee ought to have been appointed before the Bill had been proceeded with, particularly as the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into the subject had as yet delayed making any Report on which the House could legislate. In the mean time he was
 428
 Mr. George Young  said, that it was from no indifference to the subject that he had not anticipated the hon. Member in this Motion. As a shipowner, he practically knew the evils of the present system, but he had understood from those who were better acquainted than he was with the business of that House, that it would be highly inconvenient to propose the introduction of a clause like the present in a Consolidation Bill. He had for that reason abstained from attempting it. He recommended the hon. Member near him, on the same ground to withdraw the Motion at this moment, and he might advantageously bring it forward next Session, and should then have his (Mr. Young's) cordial support.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had stated in strong terms his opinion on the present system of admeasurement of vessels, and his conviction, that that system required alteration. Commissioners bad been appointed to inquire into the subject, and their Report was not yet made, but it would be before the next Session, and then they should be able most conveniently to revise the law on this matter. He must moreover observe, that the House had already agreed to this Bill, on the express understanding, that it was to be confined to consolidate the laws, and not to alter them. He therefore could not consent to the Motion.
 Mr. Grole , after commenting on the enormous duty upon currants, moved that the duty of 44 s d s
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  begged his hon. friend to withdraw his Motion, because the revenue could not spare the reduction. He should himself be willing to propose the reduction if the duty could be spared, and he should be happy next year to take the whole of the class of fruits into his consideration, with a view to reduce the duties on them all.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  recommended, after what the right hon. Gentleman had
 429
 Mr. Hume  contended, that on account of the increased consumption which would take place in consequence of the reduction of duty, the revenue would lose nothing by that proceeding. He would almost venture to give an undertaking to Government to that effect.
 Mr. Hawes  approved of a reduction in the duty on currants, and contended, that such a reduction would have a beneficial effect on the shipping-interest of the country.
 Lord Sandon  supported the Amendment.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not feel himself justified, with the small surplus revenue which existed, in agreeing to the Motion. While he admitted the onerous nature of the tax, he yet thought that so great an increase in the consumption of the article would not ensue from the reduction of the duty as was anticipated by the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Ewart  supported the Amendment. He conceived it to be the duty of every Member towards his constituents to press for a reduction of the tax on all articles of consumption.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  opposed the Motion on the ground that it would occasion great loss to the revenue.
 Mr. Baring  thought the high duty on seeds prejudicial to agriculture, he would support the Motion.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he felt himself bound to resist this Motion for the same reasons as he had opposed the last.
 Colonel Williams  supported the Motion because it would be for the advantage of all those who sowed these seeds.
 Mr. George F. Young  objected to going into the Committee at that late hour (past one), and without explanation of the object of the Bill.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he had explained the subject of the Bill on introducing it.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, he should move the adjournment of the House.
 Mr. Baring  was not prepared to vote for the large sum of money this Bill proposed to give without first looking into the title of the City of London to these duties, and ascertaining the amount the House would be justified in bestowing.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he would explain the object of the Bill, it was twofold; to relieve the trade of the port of London and the country generally from a heavy imposition, and to take away a considerable charge upon the revenue of the country. These dues were of ancient standing; they had been given by charter of Charles 2nd., confirmed by Acts of Parliament, and were the undoubted property of the City of London. It had happened that the right of the city had been disputed; an action was tried, and the result was, that the right was fully confirmed, and the obligation of payment on the merchant was distinctly recognized. So much for the right: then as to the dues themselves. They were, in the first instance, insignificant, but at the close of the last war they had become onerous,
 431 l l l l l l
 Mr. George F. Young  observed, that this explanation should have been given on the second reading. It was, however, full of fallacies, and he should persist in moving the adjournment of the House.
 Mr. Baring  thought, that the House ought to be made fully aware that the claims of the city for these dues were strictly just before they agreed to vote away 160,000 l
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would have no objection to that Motion if he were assured that the Committee would not delay the Bill. He, however, stated, that the course which had been adopted with the Bill was perfectly in accordance with the ordinary practice of the House in cases of a similar description, particularly in the case of the repeal of the butlerage and prizeage dues by a Customs' Bill relating to the Duchy of Lancaster. He thought that, under the course proposed by the hon. Member, if the Committee entered into a full inquiry into the Charter of the City of London, with a view to ascertain-
 432
 Mr. Halcombe  supported the Motion for the Select Committee on the ground that the inquiry into the title of the City in the mode referred to was highly necessary.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the objections of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) were quite inapplicable to the present stage of the Bill. His objections were to the principle of the Bill; and there was no one recital in it to which his observations applied. The hon. and learned Gentleman complained, that the Bill placed Protestant and Roman Catholic clergymen on a different footing. Its object certainly was to place them on precisely the same footing, and if any clause in it affected a Protestant, or a dissenting clergyman, let the hon. Gentleman point it out and amend it. The law, as it at present stood, was cruel in the extreme. How was a Roman Catholic priest to know who was a Roman Catholic, or who was not? And yet the law inflicted the penalty, not merely in the case of the person being a Protestant at the time, but if he happened to have been one twelve months before. In Galway a priest married a couple—the man was a soldier, and both parties declared that they were Roman Catholics. A serjeant of the regiment corroborated the man's statement, and it turned out afterwards that the man was a Protestant. As the case stood, the priest, nevertheless, was subject to the penalty.
 Lord william Lennox  thought the hon. member for Oldham had not acted fairly towards the House in making garbled and exaggerated statements of the evidence given on the Committee. With every respect for the hon. Member's talents, he could not think he could in five minutes give the pith of the evidence which it had taken the Committee a month to obtain. When the evidence was before the House, the House would judge of the conduct of the police. In the mean time, he would only say, that he disbelieved the statements of the hon. Gentleman, and that he had in another Committee, heard testimony to the good conduct of the police.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the Bill—not because it removed penalties which he allowed were severe in the extreme, and which he desired to see mitigated—but because it did not substitute any more mild and adequate ones in their stead. It would give impunity to the Roman Catholic priest who might solemnize a clandestine marriage, while it left the minister of the Established Church liable to punishment. The 6th Anne, ch. 16, for the protection of minors, made it highly penal, both in the clergy of the Established Church, and in Roman Catholic priests, to celebrate marriages in the cases there specified; but this Bill was to relieve the Roman Catholic priest, while it would allow the Established clergy to remain subject to the penalty: for the 12th George 1st extended it, in its utmost severity, to a degraded clergyman of the establishment—and, if he was not degraded, the canons and rules of his church were a sufficient control over him; but that statute, also, was only to be repealed so far as it regarded the Roman Catholic priest. He felt that the whole marriage law called loudly for revision, and he hoped that would soon be undertaken; but, in the mean time, he objected to the penalties being removed for performing clandestine marriages by Roman Catholic priests. He thought that the offence should be made a misdemeanor, as proposed by the Solicitor General for Ireland last year; otherwise he was persuaded that clandestine marriages would be greatly multiplied, and all the mischief and confusion arise to which they inevitably lead.
 Mr. Shaw  was surprised, that the learned Solicitor General wasted the time of the Committee in so vehemently declaiming against penalties which he (Mr. Shaw) had not defended; on the contrary, he had last year supported the Bill which the Irish Solicitor General brought in, abolishing those penalties, but making the offence a misdemeanour. That was all he (Mr. Shaw) desired now. It was the Government and their supporters who had changed, not him, (Mr. Shaw). With respect to the 6th of Anne, he relied not only on his own opinion—for he had communicated on the subject with some of the highest legal authorities in Ireland, and they were of opinion, that the present Bill would repeal the provisions of that Act which were remedial, as well as those which were protective.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he would adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Dr. Lushington) respecting the 6th of Anne, and, on the Report, bring up a clause declaring, that the Bill should not affect the fifth section of that Act. He would also, to save the time of the Committee, defer till the Report proposing his other clause, which should be in the words of the Solicitor General for Ireland last year, simply making the offence a misdemeanour in all cases.
 Mr. Lyall  did not mean to bring any charge against the Postmaster-General, but quite the contrary. With respect to the abuse which had been mentioned by the right hon. Baronet, only one letter of the description alluded to had been discovered in the foreign bag; and that had found its way there without the cognizance
 404
 Mr. Lyall  presented a Petition from the Merchants, Brokers, and others in the city of London engaged in the American trade, praying that an Act might be passed to regulate the Post-office revenue, and to leave parties at liberty to send their letters for foreign parts to the outports of this country, by whatever means they might think proper, without any control or interference on the part of the Postmaster-General. The petitioners had been in the habit of sending letters intended for America, since 1814—to Liverpool, for instance—by the most convenient conveyances, to be sent by the earliest despatch; that had gone on until the Postmaster-General had interfered and threatened prosecutions if it were longer persisted in, requiring that the letters should be transmitted through the Post-office. Every person in business must be aware how important it was for merchants to have their letters at the outports by given periods, as no one could stay the wind and tides. The Post-office could not insure the earliest and most certain despatch; and it might be most important that individuals should be at liberty to embrace the opportunity of sending off their letters early in the morning, instead of waiting till the evening. No doubt, by granting what the petitioners now asked for, a little postage revenue would be lost; but surely the postage of two or three thousand letters ought not to be put in competition with the interests of this great commercial country. He had had an interview with
 403
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  said, that a more exaggerated statement than that which had been made by the hon. member for Oldham he had never heard. What could the hon. Member mean, or expect, by thus prejudging the case? It was a most unfair attempt on his part to create an unfair impression within those walls, and a popular clamour out of doors. He hoped, however, that at least the House would not be carried away by any such misrepresentation.
 Mr. Wilks  could not consent to do so.
 Mr. Wilks , in the belief that the Government would introduce some measure, if it should be rendered necessary, would withdraw the present Motion.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  said, that his hon.
 412
 Dr. Lushington  said, that if any proof were wanting of the necessity that existed of revising the law of marriage, it had been afforded in the course of the discussion that evening. When he found, that the validity of a marriage might depend upon the religion of one of the parties twenty-five years before, he owned he considered a case was made out to demand the interference of the Legislature. His objection to the present Bill was, that it did not go far enough. He knew of no statute inflicting penalties on clergymen of the established religion. [Mr.  Shaw: l
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that many instances of severe punishment inflicted on men merely for their religious opinions might be found in the colonies. The case of Henry Williams was one of that kind, and he was not aware that the man had in that case committed any other offence than that of professing his religious opinions. These oppressions were practised by men of high rank in society in the colonies. They were permitted, if not practised, by Magistrates, and he knew no instance in which they had been removed from their situations. Nor was he aware that justice had yet been done upon those who had attacked and demolished the meeting-houses. No language was strong enough to reprobate misconduct such as that he had noticed, and he hoped it would meet with its fitting punishment. He recommended the hon. Member, however, under present circumstances, to withdraw the Motion.
 Mr. Thomas Kennedy  said, that at the time this report was agreed upon, some conversation took place respecting the propriety of raising a discussion upon its being brought up to the House; and he knew it
 407
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, with respect to the Reports to which the hon. Gentleman alluded, that when it was found that the police spies had written reports, it was of course the duty of the Committee to require their production. Having been produced, they became evidence; and he was for laying them before the House. The Committee, however, determined otherwise. The day after they had been laid before the Committee, he inquired of the hon. Alderman who filled the Chair, (and who had exhibited the utmost diligence in his office), what had become of them? Who replied that they were at his house, and that he had read through a great part of them during the previous night. He (Mr. Cobbett) then said to the hon. Alderman, "Well, Wood, suppose I sit up, and read a good part of them to night." He got them, and did read a good part of them that night. On bringing them back to the Committee, he intended, if possible, to read them through, and remained in the room after the Committee had all dispersed, perusing those reports. Mr. Witham, the Clerk, probably preferring his (Mr. Cobbett's) room to his company, told him they would not be wanted again till Monday, and that he had better take them home with him, where he could read them more conveniently. He did so, and brought them back to the Committee on the Monday, having in the interim, the House might be sure, read every syllable, and having indexed them, and numbered them
 408
 Mr. Cobbett  presented a Petition from the National Political Union of Newcastle-on-Tyne, against the system of Police adopted in the Metropolis. The Petition staled the abhorrence of the Petitioners at the conduct of Popay, who was a member of that novel and unconstitutional force called the New Police, the members of which were employed as spies, as instigators of mischief, ensnaring, betraying, and coercing the people. In those opinions, and in that description, he most cordially concurred, and the whole of it had been proved to be correct, by the evidence taken before the Committee, whose report was presented last night. He did not approve of that report, and so he told the rest of the Committee, and he told them also that he would say so in the House; it fell so far short of what he approved of, and of what he felt due to the petitioners, to the House, and the country, that he could never give his consent to it. He knew, when he first presented the petition, that not a Member of the House could have believed the facts stated in it were true. The petition divided itself into eighteen different allegations, every one of which had been distinctly substantiated. If the petitioners had gone further, if they had multiplied their allegations tenfold, they would not have exceeded the truth. The witnesses, without exception, proved themselves to be men of good character; and after the indulgence of a fortnight given to Government and the Commissioners, nothing could be brought forward to impeach their character or testimony. They had before them the most infamous spy ever employed by any government in the world, and he was proved to be guilty of the grossest prevarication and barefaced falsehood. The superintendent also had been found guilty of equal prevarication, which must be taken notice of by the House. They had traced the money into the hands of the spy, from the Secretary of State himself, and the only comfort they received was, that it had not come out of the parish funds, but from the Home-office,
 405 406
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, no exemption was required in favour of the Roman Catholic priest that was not equally shared by the Protestant clergyman.
 The Speaker : What the hon. member for Oldham is saying, does fall within the orders of the House. But even if it did not do so, the statements of the hon. Member are of very great importance. After the very candid avowal which the hoa. member for Oldham has made, with reference both to himself and to another hon. Member, it is clear that he and that other hon. Member have been acting under the purest, although under the grossest misapprehension. No Member of a Select Committee has the slightest right to carry away any of the public documents which may have been furnished that Committee. The hon. member for Oldham says, that the Clerk of the Committee told him that he might take home the papers in question. If the hon. Member had applied to me, I should have told him that I had no power to authorise him to do so; and that I could never give my sanction to such a proceeding. When a Select Committee of this House is engaged in the investigation of any public question, and sends for information on the subject to any public officer, that public officer may frequently think it the best way to give entire the documents in which the required information is to be found. But if, when the entire documents are so committed into the hands of hon. Gentlemen, they are to be taken away to their houses, to be looked through, and sifted, and commented upon, one of two things must be the result—either that the public officers will in future stingily confine themselves to the production of the precise papers required by a Committee, or that, if they give the entire documents, it must be with the understanding that no Member of that Committee will use them for any purpose except that for which the Committee was appointed. After the candid avowal of the hon. member for Oldham, it is evident that both he and the hon. member for the city of London, to whom he has alluded, have proceeded on an entire misunderstanding in this matter; but such having been the case, the House will not perhaps think it inconvenient, on so important a subject, that I have taken the opportunity to make these remarks.
 Sir James Graham  wished that some person more intimately connected with the Post-office than he was had been present to give an explanation. The hon. Gentleman had done justice to the noble Postmaster-General in saying he was desirous of affording every facility in his power to the transmission of letters by merchants here to their foreign correspondents; but there was nothing more unpleasant than that an executive officer should be charged with a discretionary power. It was very well known, that it was a great annoyance to be put to the trouble of answering letters—it was equally well known, that it was a great annoyance to be put to the trouble of paying the postage of them, and the anxiety shown to get franks pretty clearly proved how desirous persons were that their friends should not be put to the latter annoyance. On the other hand, it was the duty of the Postmaster-General to take care that all the revenue that ought fairly to come from the transmission of letters should be obtained. The mode of trans mitting ship letters to the outports, adverted to by the hon. Member who had presented this petition, had gone on until a most glaring abuse had been detected. An irregular Post-office had in fact been established at a coffee-house, without the knowledge of the Postmaster-General, for the convenience of persons sending to their foreign correspondents; that post-office actually charged the inland postage upon the letters so transmitted; and even that practice might have gone on to this day, but it was found that the bag belonging to that post-office actually contained letters for persons merely residing at the outports, and thereby a direct fraud was committed on the revenue. Upon this discovery taking place, it was impossible to suffer the practice to be continued.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the country owed much to his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Perrin) for bringing forward a measure to repeal laws which were a disgrace to the Statute-book. Would the House believe, that as the law now stood, a Roman Catholic priest found guilty of marrying a Roman Catholic and a Protestant, might suffer the penalty of death. There was some doubt as to whether or no the Act of 1792 repealed that statute, but in his opinion it did not; and if any one were so ill advised as to frame an indictment upon it, a conviction might be had, and the penalty of death be incurred. Be this as it might, however, there was no doubt that another Act was in existence, which inflicted a penalty of 500 l
 Sir Oswald Mosley  rose to order, and submitted that these observations could not be considered to fall within the hon. Gentleman's reply.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that his great objection to the Bill as it stood was, that while it remitted all penalty with respect to the priest celebrating the marriage, it admitted that the marriage itself must he null. It inflicted the severest possible penalty on the parties contracting the marriage—it stamped the female as a concubine, and bastardized the children, while it inflicted no penalty whatsoever upon the clergyman. Now he would ask was that a Bill which the Committee was prepared to sanction? Should the Bill pass, it would give the greatest possible encouragement to seduction of the worst description—namely, that perpetrated under the form of marriage. A few years since a Protestant clergyman was tried at Maryborough (he believed) for improperly solemnizing a marriage. He was tried for the offence—was convicted, imprisoned, and deprived of
 413
 Lord Althorp  said, that the House could not, at the present time, do what the hon. Member required. There was no doubt that Parliament possessed the right of legislating in case of necessity for the colonies; but there was no man who would not be ready to say, that that right was one which ought to be exercised only in extreme cases, and when nothing else would effect the important objects of the Mother Country. The question was, whether there was such a cause for interference at the present moment? Another House of Assembly had just been summoned, and it would be premature for the Parliament to interfere till it was known what that House would do. He agreed with the hon. member for Weymouth, that no expressions were too strong to be applied to the conduct of those who had attacked and destroyed the Meeting Houses. If such conduct was still perse-
 411
 Lord Sandon  said, that if the Local Legislatures did not agree to some measures for the protection of religious worship, he should not offer any obstacles to any measure that the Government might introduce on the subject.
 Colonel Evans  looked upon the police to be like the guards, and thought that they ought to be paid by the whole country.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that it should not be at the discretion of the Grand Jury to make presentments for the salaries of the medical gentlemen, &c., and that it should be compulsory on them to present for these salaries and allowances, inasmuch as the discretionary power led to many very unfair proceedings. Instances were not unfrequent where Grand Juries, from particular motives, had refused in cases where duties had been fully and fairly performed. Strong political feelings arising out of an election had produced such unhappy consequences. The power ought therefore to be withdrawn.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  moved, an Amendment to the effect, that it shall not be lawful for a Grand Jury to withhold a presentment for the payment of the salary of a physician at a dispensary.
 Mr. Halcombe  presented a Petition, signed by 960 of the electors of Coventry, complaining of the conduct of the returning officers of that borough at the last election. The hon. and learned member also said, that he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee which had been appointed to inquire into the transactions at the last Coventry election, and more particularly to refer to the conduct of there turning officers of the borough, the Sheriffs, on the same subjects as were complained of in the petition which he had just presented. He would do this with a view to those officers being called to the Bar to be dealt with according to the pleasure of the House. The election at Coventry, to which he referred, took place in December last, when Messrs, Ellice and Bulwer were the successful, and Messrs. Thomas and Fyler the unsuccessful candidates,
 435 s s l 436 de die in diem
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Member, that he could only make one of his Motions at a time. With respect to his first Motion, the latter part of it was unnecessary, for if the Sheriffs once appeared at their Bar, the House would, of course, deal with them as it thought fitting.
 Mr. Halcombe  then altered the terms of his first Motion, and confined it to the mere calling upon the Sheriffs to appear at the Bar of the House on Monday next, but expressed his willingness to withdraw the Motion for the present Session, intending to bring it forward early in the next.
 Mr. Ellice  objected to having the question withdrawn, or to have it deferred to the next Session. The inquiry by the Committee had been productive of much good, and since then, there had been one peaceable election in that town, the only peaceable one that he had ever known there. The present Motion was therefore unnecessary, and certainly there could be still less necessity for bringing it forward next Session.
 Sir Oswald Mosley , as Chairman of the
 437
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  thought there was no ground for the Motion. The parties who complained had been the aggressors, and had been very properly treated as they deserved.
 Mr. Briscoe  seconded the Motion, and contended that his hon. friend had not been well treated, by not having received greater attention from the House.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that it was his intention to bring forward this subject early in the next Session; and it was with that view that he now moved for the copy of Randall's appointment.
 Mr. Shaw  proposed a Clause to prevent Catholic or Dissenting ministers from celebrating marriages between persons not belonging to their own flocks, rendering such marriages, if celebrated, void, and constituting the act a misdemeanor on the part of such ministers.
 Mr. G. Wood  opposed the clause.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the northern counties might as well be called on to pay for the police of Manchester and Liverpool, as the whole nation to pay for the police of the metropolis.
 Mr. Benett  opposed the grant. The inhabitants of London should provide for their own security.
 Mr. Perrin  said, that the present Bill was intended merely to repeal certain odious acts, and upon that ground alone he would oppose the introduction of the proposed clause into it. When the general measure on the subject of the Marriage Laws, of which notice had been given, should be brought forward next Session, it would be then for the hon. Member to propose that or any other clause relating to the general law of Marriage. The present was only a particular measure to remedy a particular evil.
 Mr. Thicknesse  reminded the noble Lord, (Lord Althorp) that whenever the police were required out of London, they were paid by the districts requiring them. He should take the sense of the Committee on the subject.
 Mr. Thicknesse  opposed the Resolution. The country ought not to be called on to defray a portion of expense incurred for the protection exclusively of property in the metropolis.
 Mr. Estcourt  also considered, that the police of London was a national force, and ought to be paid by the nation at large.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the principle on which the grant was proposed had long been recognized in the case of Ireland.
 Mr. Spring Rice  proposed a Resolution empowering his Majesty to grant out of the Consolidated Fund a sum not exceed-
 438 l d d
 The Solicitor General  also opposed the clause, on the ground that the Bill now before the House went to mitigate the penal code, and that this clause, if adopted, would aggravate it, as it would make that criminal which might be at present
 440
 Lord Althorp  observed, that, upon the general principle, undoubtedly the metropolis ought to support its own Police, but the peace of the metropolis being of the utmost importance to the country at large, and the police being made available in various parts of the country, as well as in the metropolis, he thought it not unfair that a small portion of the expense should be borne by the country at large.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he thought that to be a convenient time for going into detail on the regulations as to the time of employment. It was provided in the Bill, that no children under thirteen years of age, should work more than eight hours a-day, instead of the previous proposition of working all under eighteen years of age generally ten hours a-day; and that those children who were between thirteen and eighteen years of age should not exceed sixty-nine hours labour in the week. It would be a general rule that all under eighteen years of age should not work longer than sixty-nine hours in the week, and that no children should on any account be employed under the age of nine years. These arrangements would be secured by the appointment of the inspectors, in such a way that no evasion of the law could take place. By this Bill the provisions of Sir John Hobhouse's Bill were extended to all manufactories, except silk in certain cases. The Bill contained three principles—first, that children under thirteen years of age should not work more than eight hours a-day—secondly, that a system of inspection was established by which the Bill would be carried into effect—and, thirdly, it would establish a better and more general system of education among the class of persons employed in factories. He still entertained doubts of the propriety of the Legislature interfering between the master and servant, but he would admit that if children were placed in a situation in which they could not protect themselves, it was the duty of that House to afford protection to them. It was with these views that he offered the Bill to the consideration of the Committee, and he pledged himself to do all in his power to pass it during the present Session.
 Mr. Strutt  supported the Amendment, and stated that he had had a letter from one of his constituents largely engaged in the trade, declaring that there were very few young people employed in it; that he had upwards of sixty working for him, and amongst them there were only four under fifteen years of age.
 Lord Althorp  said, the statements of the two hon. Gentlemen put the lace trade in a very different light from any other, as the Bill would not include more than one-fifth of it. He would, there fore, agree to the Amendment.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he was before aware of the necessity of excluding the lace trade from the operation of the Bill, but, as it was originally included in it, he had left it there, in order that it might be taken out in that House.
 Mr. Bolling  was opposed to the Amendment, and asked why it was proposed to exclude the lace manufactories? It was said, that there was no great expenditure of bodily labour on the part of the children employed in them. Why, there was none in the cotton spinning. So if that principle were adopted, the cotton manufactories should be exempted as well as the lace manufactories. He took the noble Lord on his own principles, and would, therefore, again ask him why exclude the lace manufactories? The clause of the noble Lord, by which all trades were included, had his approbation; and he could not sanction any departure from principle. Besides, he should not vole for the clause, unless it came into immediate operation, instead of in January, 1834, as it purported. If it came into immediate operation, the country would be satisfied; if not, it would be quite the contrary. If that Amendment was carried, then the power-loom weavers ought also to be excluded; for the hand-loom weavers (a large class) had much harder work, and they were not protected.
 Mr. Baldwin  said, if the House consulted the health of the operatives, they should attend to the ventilation and construction of the factories, as much almost
 451
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought, it would be a very hard case to compel the manufacturers to come at once under the restrictions of this Bill, without any notice whatever.
 Mr. Briscoe  objected to the Amendment. He thought the House should not subject itself to the imputation of partial legislation, which would be the result if this Amendment were adopted. In his opinion, therefore, the word "lace" should not be left out of the clause.
 Mr. Bolling  would divide the Committee on the adoption of the Amendment. It was really the question whether legislation was to be on principle or not?
 Mr. Robinson  considered this a very important clause. The noble Lord proposed that the labour of children under thirteen years of age should be restricted to eight hours a-day, and from thirteen to eighteen, to twelve hours a-day. For his (Mr. Robinson's) own part, he was averse altogether to legislative interference between master and servant, but since the principle had in this instance been agreed to by the House, it was not now for him to offer any further objection to it. As, however, the House was going to interfere, he could not refrain from saying that if
 452
 Lord Althorp  said, that this clause had been framed in conformity to the general feeling of the public. With respect to the sudden change of the additional work from eight to twelve hours being imposed when a child attained the age of thirteen years, there could only be two modes of proceeding with respect to that, either that the sudden change should take place, or that there should be a graduated scale of removing the extreme restriction; and as it would be impossible to have that graduated scale framed so as to be acted upon, he really did not know how he could amend the clause so as to meet the views of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Briscoe  opposed the Amendment. It was intended that the children should have a little relaxation on the Saturdays, that they might be somewhat refreshed from their fatigues on the Sundays, and enabled to keep from sleeping while in school.
 Mr. James Oswald  said, he was aware of the object, but he did not think that a sufficient reason, because at the Lanark Mills the children were as well protected, and their morals and health as well attended to, as at any manufactory that could be found, and no such Saturday restriction affected those mills.
 Mr. Hyett  proposed an Amendment, which would have the effect of compelling those under twelve years of age, as well as those under eighteen, who only were contemplated by the clause as it stood, to make up, in cases of lost time, at the rate of three hours per week.
 Mr. Gisborne  rose to move his Resolution—"That the House will resolve itself into this Committee on this day six months." The evidence upon which the whole proceeding was founded, ought to be very cautiously received, because the greater part of it was  ex-parte; 454 455
 Lord Althorp  did not intend to detain the House at any length, but felt it necessary to make a few remarks in defence of the course recommended by Ministers. First, he begged to say, as, indeed, his hon. friend had admitted, that the witnesses examined before the Committee were not his witnesses. His object had not been to examine persons whose opinions agreed with his own, and in selecting the members for the Committee, it had ever been matter of complaint against him, that he had chosen those of opposite notions, and different shades of sentiment.
 456 457 458
 Sir Henry Parnell  wished to state the grounds which induced him to vote in favour of the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for North Derbyshire. He thought, that sufficient inquiry into this subject had not been instituted for the interest of the public. He informed the House that he had repeated conversations
 459 460
 Mr. Strutt  could not allow this question to go to a division without saying a few words as to the grounds of the vote he should give. He had attended the Committee which sat on this subject, and he owned that he had not heard any argument to convince him that the Bank monopoly should be continued. He had, indeed, heard the opinions of many highly respectable individuals, on that side of the question; but as they had not been supported by arguments, he must take them only as opinions, and those, too, the opinions of men who, however intelligent, must be considered in this case as partial witnesses. From the evidence of Mr. Horsley Palmer and others, it was clear, that the Bank thought the convertibility of their notes a sufficient security against over-issue; but it was rather inconsistent with this opinion that they should turn round and say, that no competition of banks of issue should be allowed in the metropolis. Now, he thought it but fair, before they passed a measure of this kind, to inquire how far the panic of 1825 had
 461 462
 Mr. Hume  declared that, in his opinion, the noble Lord had not made out his case, and that not one of the arguments which the noble Lord had used in favour of the plan, but might be urged with greater success in opposition to it. It had been very truly said, that the currency of the country ought to be rendered as steady as possible: in that sentiment he fully concurred: but he would ask, were not the banks of Scotland eminently calculated to produce that great desideratum of steadiness? Under the banking system of Scotland fluctuation was nearly out of the question, and it was a complete preventive of over-issues. He wished to put the question on this footing, was there or was there not the utmost hazard in handing the country bound hand and foot over to the power of the Bank?—were they warranted in disabling themselves from dealing with the currency of the country under any circumstances for a term of ten years. Looking at the evidence before the Committee, he should say, that it was most abundant to show that the best effects had resulted in Scotland from the business of banking being in the hands of many, and the greatest mischief had resulted in England from its being only in the hands of a few. The remedy, he thought, for all these mischiefs would be a really national Bank, and whatever profits arose from it ought to be applied to the credit of the public; but at all events, let them ultimately come to what resolution they might, they ought to hear further evidence, and wait at least for another year. They ought to wait for another year were it only for the purpose of being in a better condition to make an attempt to break the connexion between the Government and
 463
 Mr. Fryer  said, the question then under the consideration of the House was one which would determine the amount of the rents of their lands. He was not influenced by any sentiment of hostility against the Government, but a sense of duty compelled him to say, that the noble Lord took up his measures hastily, and abandoned them indiscreetly; he, therefore, did not anticipate a very persevering maintenance of that measure. In the present stage of it, however, he begged early and at once to declare, that he was in favour of a postponement of the question, and he founded his opinion as much upon the arguments of the noble Lord opposite, as on the influence of any other considerations. There was nothing more obvious than that the system now about to be introduced would supersede the country banks; and it would besides have the effect of placing 30,000,000 l 464 l
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the House had before it only a choice of difficulties, and under such circumstances, looking at the Measure as a whole, he thought the Government arrangement likely to be satisfactory to the country at large. The object of the noble Lord was to establish a paper circulation as free from objection as possible, and the present plan appeared calculated to effect that purpose. The panic of 1825 was not to be attributed to the mismanagement of the Bank, and he therefore saw no reason to apprehend ill consequences from that system as proposed with respect to Bank of England notes; but he should view with alarm an unlimited issue of paper money by irresponsible parties. He did not mean to assert that the Government plan was free from objection, but he thought it preferable to that free trade in banking suggested by its opponents, and should therefore vote for going into Committee.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that his hostility to the Bill and his approbation of the Amendment were founded entirely upon the single clause by which Bank of England notes were made a legal tender.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  would support the Motion of the hon. member for Derbyshire, but on somewhat different grounds. Though he agreed with the right hon. member for Dundee, that the inquiry of the Bank Committee last year was  ex-parte
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, the Bank was not blameable for the stoppages of 1797 and 1825, as the right hon. member for Dundee appeared to suppose, for it had been merely the instrument of executing the will of the existing Government. In 1797 the stoppage was occasioned by the demand for 90,000,000 l 466 l 467 468
 Lord Althorp  said, that in the first place, it was not, nor had it been the intention of his Majesty's Government to make any alteration in the privileges of the Bank of England, with one exception only; neither had it been intended to diminish those privileges which at present existed with respect to exclusive banking. The alteration which was proposed was, to do away that restriction which would pre-
 469 l
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that as he also had given notice of a motion respecting this clause—namely, to repeal so much of the Act of the 7th George 4th, c. 46, as restricts banking companies of more than six partners from drawing bills on London for less amount than 50 l l 470
 Lord Althorp  said, that before he could give his assent he was desirous of seeing the exact words proposed to be introduced in the clause; and if he agreed with the hon. Gentleman he would consent to put them in another Bill. He certainly wished to give entire freedom to joint-stock banks to draw and issue notes, and in the manner which was considered most convenient. He had heard practical men say, that it would not be very advantageous for banks in the country to have houses on which to draw in London, and he therefore could not help expressing some little doubt on the point. But a proper time would come to discuss it. He did not see any necessity for the discussion at present, as the clause as it stood did not prevent that which the amendment proposed to establish. With respect to the amendment proposed by the hon. Member (Mr. Cayley), he did not think that it was of any importance. He had no objection to it as far as he was concerned; but there were other hon. Members who entertained strong objections to it. He would leave it to some hon. Member connected with the Bank to state the ground of their objections to the Amendment. For himself, he was indifferent whether the distance was to be sixty-five miles or twenty-five miles.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  opposed the amendment. The Bank of England having agreed to deduct 120,000 l
 Mr. Cayley  said, they might as well have made the limitation 165 miles as 65. It should be recollected that the public and Parliament were parties to the bargain, as well as the Government and the Bank.
 Colonel Torrens  rose to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice, "that upon one year's notice given, within six months after the expiration of three years from the first of August, 1834, the exclusive privileges of banking granted by this Act shall cease and determine." He would not, he said, trouble the Committee with a repetition of the arguments which he had already adduced against this portion of the Bill. After the decided difference of opinion which prevailed in the House with respect to this measure, it was too much to enact that the exclusive privileges which it conferred should continue for so long a period as ten years. He would, as he understood that would be technically the best way to accomplish his object, move to insert the
 472
 Mr. Hume , in seconding the Amendment, said that it was only justice to the country, if the Bill should prove disadvantageous to it, to give it the opportunity of remedying the evil before the expiration of so long a period as ten years.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that it would be a most inconvenient and injurious course to subject a question of this importance to the liability of being, at short intervals, repeatedly opened and discussed. The public interest required that something permanent should be done on the subject. He must say that, owing to the confused manner in which this discussion had been carried on for the last half hour or so, many hon. Members who, like himself, had important interests at stake in connexion with it, were perfectly ignorant of what they were just now doing. This he would say, that nothing could be more inexpedient or dangerous than to re-open a subject of this kind in the course of two or three years.
 Lord Althorp  agreed with his hon. friend, that the greatest possible inconvenience would arise from re-opening this question in so short a period as three years. It was most desirable that the House should settle it as well as it could now, without renewing the discussion upon it for at least ten years to come.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the present arrangement of the charter might prove, as indeed it was expected by many to prove, disadvantageous to the country. If that should be the case, it would be most important that the country should have the power of remedying the evil. At all events, the period should be limitted to five years.
 Colonel Torrens  would alter his amendment to that effect, and propose, that the charter should be limited to five years. After the experience which the country had had of the disastrous effects produced by the Bank's mismanagement of the currency, it was too much to continue its exclusive charter for ten years.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  opposed the Amendment. It was said, that there had not been sufficient inquiry; surely the voluminous mass of evidence that had been taken on the subject last Session was a sufficient answer to that observation.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that in consequence of a subsequent clause in the Bill,
 473
 Mr. Gisborne  was in favour of the Amendment, which, if carried, would virtually continue the charter for six years and a-half.
 Mr. Grote  thought, that at all events seven years would be a sufficiently long period.
 Mr. Herries  said, as the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had, on a former occasion, stated, that this clause formed no part of the bargain with the Bank, it had better be struck out and made the substance of a separate Bill. It was quite out of place in the present measure, if it formed no part of the bargain with the Bank, though it might hereafter be contended that it was part of that bargain, in consequence of being in the Bill, and thereby Parliament would be prevented from repealing it.
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that in his opinion, the clause formed no part of the bargan with the Bank.
 Mr. Baring  expressed a doubt as to whether it would be in the power of Parliament to repeal the clause, if it were allowed to stand in the Bill.
 The Solicitor General  said, that as his noble friend declared that the clause was no part of the contract with the Bank, there could be no doubt it would be competent for Parliament at any time to repeal it. The question was one to which the Bank were not parties, but only the Parliament and the public.
 Mr. Herries  expressed his surprise at the opinion pronounced by the hon. and learned Member. The title of the Bill was, A Bill for giving to the Corporation of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England certain privileges for a limited period, under certain conditions." The establishment of the legal tender was unquestionably a privilege conferred upon the Bank; and the question was, whether, if the Bill passed with this clause in it, it would not be considered a part of the bargain with the Bank, whatever might be the noble Lord's opinion upon the subject? He maintained that it would, and that Parliament would not have power to repeal it without altering the whole tenor of the Bill, unless they thought proper to commit a breach of faith.
 The Solicitor General  repeated, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared the legal tender was no part of the bargain with the Bank, Parliament might at any time repeal the clause referring to it without impairing the operation of the rest of the Bill.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  maintained, that the clause did form part of the bargain with the Bank, and was astonished that any one could doubt the fact. In one of the letters of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the Bank directors, which formed the basis of the Bill, he made use of these words:—" The discouragement given to joint-stock banks of issue, as compared with joint-stock banks not of issue, and the making Bank of England notes a legal tender, must increase the circulation of the Bank of England very considerably, while the relieving bills drawn for short dates from the usury laws will facilitate the operations of the Bank in times of difficulty to a very great degree. The Government, therefore,
 475
 Mr. Herries  said, that the hon. and learned Solicitor-General now spoke of this as not being part of the compact with the Bank—the noble Lord had intimated the same thing—the House, therefore, knew that it was not part of the bargain; but all the world did not know it; they thought perhaps the reverse; and what he required was, to set the question clear from all doubts whatever. Now, the best mode of doing that, was to put the clause out of the Bill, and leave the matter of the legal tender to be the subject of a separate legislation. It was true, that both the Solicitor General and the noble Lord said, that the question of the legal tender was not a part of the bargain with the Bank; but where was the record of that declaration? It should appear in some authenticated form, that such was the fact. The best way of making that appear was, to leave the matter out of the present Bill, which was founded on the bargain with the Bank, and introduce it in another Bill, which was avowedly unconnected with that bargain.
 Mr. Hardy  believed, that the Bank would consider it a gross breach of their privileges, accorded them by a bargain with the Government, if this clause should be repealed within the ten years. If the matter was not necessarily connected with the bargain, why introduce it?
 The Solicitor General  said, that if the hon. Member would look to former Acts of a similar kind, he would find isolated subjects introduced into them. Such was the case with the Act 5 and 6 of William and Mary, and 8 and 9 William 3rd.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that the noble Lord had treated the clause as advantageous to the Bank. If the Bank considered it to be so, would it give the clause up? He should like to have the opinion of a Bank Director upon this subject. There were two Bank Directors in the House, He should like to know whether
 476
 Lord Althorp  thought there was some mistake as to the effect of the correspondence between the Government and the Bank. His propositions were these:—
 
 1. That the Charter be renewed for ten years from 1st of August, 1834. 2. That no bank be established within twenty-five miles of London, exceeding the number of six partners, but that banks established at a greater distance, whatever may be the number of their partners, may issue notes and bills payable in London. 3. That the Bank of England notes be a legal lender, except by the Bank of England in London and at the branches. 4. That bills and promissory notes, not having more than three months to run before due, be exempted from the usury-laws. 5. That the Bank accounts (similar to the consecutive account from 1778) be published weekly in the  Gazette I. The Court are desirous of confining their observations to those points which appear to bear directly upon the future action and interest of the Bank. They trust, therefore, that, in any remarks which they may find themselves called upon to offer, the Chancellor of the Exchequer will give them credit for that intention, and believe, that they have no desire unnecessarily to obtrude their opinions, with respect to any general principle which his Majesty's Ministers may think proper to pro pose for a due regulation of the currency of the country. II. The Court propose to limit themselves to two general heads,— 1st. Such of the propositions as immediately affect the public utility of the Bank. 2nd. The compensation proposed to be required from the Bank for a renewal of the exclusive privileges. The first embraces five points:—
 
 1. The period for which a renewal is to be granted. 2. The distance surrounding the metropolis, within which the exclusive privileges are to be preserved. 3. The Directors annually retiring to be immediately re-eligible. 4. The amount of capital now held by Government which it is proposed to reduce. 5 A weekly publication in the  Gazette 477
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that he did not think the Bank Directors attached much importance to this clause. He did not know that, as a body, they had an opinion one way or the other upon it. At the same time, he admitted it to be true, that in the course of the correspondence with the Bank, the noble Lord had said, that the making Bank notes a legal tender was one of the advantages for which the Bank ought to make a considerable reduction in favour of the Government in some other way. On that question of advantage, there was possibly a considerable difference of opinion among the Bank Directors. The matter was viewed rather as a question of State policy than otherwise, and one which they thought the Parliament ought to dispose of as it pleased. In what he was about to say, he begged to have it understood that he was speaking his own sentiments, and not those of the Court of Directors, who might or might not agree with his opinions, and who ought not in the least degree to be bound by them. For himself, then, he said, speaking as a Member of Parliament, and not as a Bank Director, that he should be sorry to see this clause for making notes a legal tender abrogated. Its effect, as far as any advantage to the Bank was concerned, had been modified by other clauses in the Bill; but he thought, as a matter of public advantage, that Bank notes should be a legal tender. Such a measure would offer the best security to public credit in times of difficulty, and of commercial panic. In such times, it was well known that provincial banks were in a state of discredit, and men proceeded to London to realize their securities, and convert them into gold. When that was done to a large extent, it must be highly inconvenient to the Bank, especially when the exchanges were at the same time against this country. By adopting this clause great advantage would be secured to the country, and it should, therefore, have his most cordial support.
 Sir John Rae Reid  was understood to say, he thought the clause would be very beneficial to the public, but of no great, value to the Bank of England.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped the Committee would substitute the date of the 1st of October, 1833," for the 1st of August,
 478
 Mr. Herries  thought that the date which Government proposed to insert in the clause furnished an additional reason for omitting it, because before it would come into operation another measure would have passed the House for regulating private banking.
 Lord Althorp  said, he would shortly state the reasons which induced him to desire to have the clause inserted in the present Bill, rather than in that which was to be introduced next Session. The clause did not affect country bankers in any material degree, but it would operate as a security to the Bank of England, though not as a pecuniary advantage, and for these reasons he thought it should be comprised in the measure relating to the Bank rather than in that hereafter to be introduced relative to country banking.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the two Bank Directors who had addressed the Committee had given their opinions as to the general policy of the clause, but upon the precise point as to which the Committee most wanted information—namely, whether the directors considered it to stand on the same footing as the other clauses of the Bill—those hon. Directors had been perfectly silent. If it should turn out at the end of two years, as he believed it would, that that clause conferred great pecuniary advantage on the Bank, would they or would they not hold that it was part of the bargain? The object of the clause was to prevent a run upon the Bank for gold, and therefore they might keep a less quantity of bullion in their coffers than they were compelled to do at present, and thus they would derive great pecuniary advantage. If the clause was to be retained in the Bill, it would be necessary to introduce some words to explain that it did not form part of the bargain with the Bank.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, it was impossible for him to state what the opinion of the Bank Directors would be under the circumstances suggested by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  proposed to insert the words "until Parliament shall otherwise provide," in order to make it quite clear that Parliament would be at liberty
 479
 Lord Althorp  said, he should feel it his duty to object to the Amendment, but after some further conversation, the noble Lord added, that he would not then insert the words, but consider the question further.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought, that the clause as it stood was not sufficiently explicit, and that by the issuing of five-guinea for 5 l l l
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  observed, that no five-guinea notes could be issued, unless under the liability of paying the same stamp duty as 10 l
 Mr. Baring  thought the Bill should be left as it was.
 Mr. George Wood  said, that the tendency of the clause would be to diminish the gold in circulation. It would enable country bankers to get Bank-notes at a smaller cost than gold. He was opposed to the whole clause.
 Mr. Barnard  thought the clause, as it stood, could not be evaded, unless by the Bank of England issuing five-guinea notes, which he hoped the Bank would not issue.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, that the facility the clause would give country bankers to get notes whenever they wanted them, though they could not get gold, would prevent them from keeping any gold, and would tend to drain the country of gold.
 Mr. Philip Howard  was opposed to the whole clause, making the Bank of England notes a legal tender, which would not be of any real advantage in cases of political or commercial panic, and might tend to discredit the Bank of England. He contended, that the currency had, by the measure of 1819, been placed on a solid and safe basis. The temporary and partial suffering which that measure might have occasioned, made him the more anxious not to forego the advantages or forfeit the security it afforded. However advisable it might be on other subjects to enter upon a well-considered course of Reform and change; in what regarded the currency (a question of all others the most delicate) a Government could scarcely be too conservative, or look with too
 480 l l
 Mr. Herries  opposed the clause as a departure from all sound principles. If the State made any species of paper a legal tender, it was bound to guarantee that paper. But nothing of the kind was done by this clause.
 Mr. Baring  supported the clause. He was surprised to hear the opinions of his right hon. friend. The Bank of England notes were not a legal tender at the Bank, there gold only was a legal tender.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the clause altogether would interfere with the performance of contracts.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the refusal to accept the Bank-note being a legal tender would merely place the party objecting in the same situation as if he had refused sovereigns. The debt would remain the same.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether a special contract to be paid in gold would oblige the party to pay in gold, and not in notes?
 The Solicitor General  merely repeated his former statement, that the party paying might tender the notes, but on the refusal of their acceptance the debt would still remain.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the proviso of the hon. Member was, in effect, disposed of already by the last decision of the Committee. The proposition of the hon. Baronet was, to raise the amount to 10 l l
 Mr. Forster  observed, that the hon. Baronet's proposition was general—his Amendment was confined to country bankers.
 Mr. Clay  objected to the clause. The noble Lord had assigned no reason for this alteration, nor shown the necessity of any change at all. The ostensible object was to prevent a drain upon the Bank, similar to that of 1825; but such a drain could never occur again. The only effect of the measure would be to prevent a drain produced by a distrust of the country bankers; but this was unnecessary, for as long as the Bank preserved its credit, that would be a sufficient protection to its notes without any law.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if he could expect that this measure would produce a depreciation of the currency, he should have acted contrary to the principles he had professed by introducing it; but he was confident it would lead to no depreciation. He had given his reasons for the measure when he opened it to the House, and had stated, over and over again, that in case of a commercial panic, it would prevent a drain upon the Bank. If the country bankers knew that their customers might refuse to take Bank of England notes, it would be their duty to provide specie, even beyond what the necessity of the case required; and the Legislature was bound to give protection to the Bank of England.
 Mr. Baring  approved of the principle of the clause. If any one supposed, that it was introduced with a view of promoting a depreciation of the currency, he never made a greater mistake; its effect would rather be to obviate such a depreciation. This part of the measure had had the approbation of nine out of ten of the London and country bankers, and of every London banker who had been examined before the Committee. The clause would have no effect except during a panic.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that the effect of this clause would be to produce depreciation, though it might not be so intended: when the Bank Restriction Act was passed, the same horror of depreciation was professed.
 Mr. Grote  apprehended, that as the clause then stood, it would only extend to England. He was of opinion, that if it was good for that country, it should also be extended to Scotland and Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  stated, that there was nothing in the Bill to restrict its provisions to England.
 The Solicitor General  apprehended, that it was quite clear, that the clause applied to the whole of the United Kingdom. When it was intended, that any measure should apply only to one part of
 483
 Mr. Blamire  could not see, that there was any necessity for at all interfering with the usury laws. He was aware, that many great and good men had advocated the total abolition of them, but he thought they were more interested for the wealthy borrower than the poor one. He was of opinion, that considerable disadvantage would attend the removal even of part of them. The measure might be of service in times of panic, but still that would not counterbalance the evil at other times. He should be disposed to bow to the opinion of his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he was compelled to confess, that he had heard no reason sufficient to induce him to change his opinion.
 Lord Althorp  said, he did not expect to have been called upon to discuss the question of the Usury-laws, nor would he; he would argue simply the particular question before the House. He was of opinion, that the present measure would greatly benefit the poorer classes by adding to the security of the Bank. He did not fear, that the smaller class of tradesmen would find themselves pressed by a demand for an exorbitant rate of interest; the competition in the money-market would always prevent that evil. Supposing the ordinary rate of interest on good security were five percent, the only effect of the present proposition would be, that persons unable to give perfectly good security must give somewhat more interest for a loan. Supposing a man commencing business without a capital, and not at the time able to give the very best security; by giving a trifle more of interest he might become possessed of a capital, which in time would enable him to live comfortably and accumulate property. The objections to the repeal of the Usury-laws had generally been made by the landed interest, but the capital employed in mortgages was very different from that which was employed in discounting bills, therefore they had nothing to complain
 484
 Mr. Thicknesse  concurred in the observations of the hon. member for Cumberland, and was of opinion, that this partial repeal of the Usury-laws would place the small tradesman in a much worse situation than that in which he was at present. By this clause a small tradesman would not be able to get a bill discounted without paying any exorbitant rate of interest, that might be demanded of him. The clause was one of the most important in the Bill, and he considered it would inflict a great injury on a class of persons upon whom, he contended, the commercial prosperity of the country greatly depended.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  supported the clause. He knew some mercantile houses that paid only two per cent for accommodation, while others paid four per cent; that was the natural result of large capital and high credit over small capital and lower credit. He thought it might happen, though very seldom, that a person of small capital would be obliged to pay six or seven percent, for the accommodation; but that would be a great convenience, and would be much preferable to a person being reduced to bankruptcy. He knew, in 1825, more than 1,200 tradesmen in the metropolis became bankrupt, although they were solvent, but it was because they could not get their bills discounted, and there were many persons who would have taken their bills if they could have charged six or seven per cent discount. He knew one instance, which he would relate. A person came to London, and wanted 10,000 l
 Mr. Mark Philips  was of opinion, that it would, under some circumstances, be greatly to a person's advantage to pay seven, eight, or even ten per cent for the advance of money. He should, therefore, support the clause. His only objection to
 485
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  concurred in the opinion of the hon. Member who spoke last, that the clause should have gone further, and he suggested to the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) to include bills of four months' date. That would be of great importance to small tradesmen and small manufacturers, and would open the gates of accommodation to them, which had until now been almost closed. As to whether the discount might be six or seven percent, that was a point of no moment, for, as far as he knew, a person requiring assistance never inquired what discount he had to pay. Indeed, in some instances, even twenty per cent would be cheap if it saved a man from ruin. The clause would allow large tradesmen to obtain accommodation on low terms, while it would give protection and accommodation to the smaller classes.
 Mr. Cayley  thought it was fully understood, that an irresponsible power was an evil thing. It might be said, that the Bank was responsible to its proprietors, but that was not the public. And then it was argued, that if the Government had the control of the circulation, they were only nominally responsible. That was not true—for though not responsible with their lives, they were with their places, which the public, through their Representatives, might take from them. But this power of the Bank of England was wholly independent for ten or twenty years, and might be exerted altogether opposite to the interest of the public. It was like decennial or vigintennial Parliaments. It would not do to say, that the Government had a virtual control—the destinies and happiness of this country should be left to no hazards and uncer-
 486 487 488
 Mr. Grote  thought that the Amendment of the hon. Member ought not to be adopted unless special grounds were shown for it. If it invested Government with the power of controlling the issues of the Bank, the responsibility of the Bank would,  pro tanto
 Lord Althorp  thought the hon. Member had mistaken the security which the clause gave; it would give no additional security, he admitted, but would merely give information to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The only question, therefore, was, whether this would be the best mode of giving security? If it gave the Chancellor of the Exchequer a complete control over the Bank, it might be productive of mischievous consequences.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to the Amendment, on the ground that it would conceal that information from the public which it was entitled to have. The more immediately information was given to the public, the better the Bank would be kept in order.
 Mr. Grote , adverting to the occurrences in the year 1825, observed, that if Government had possessed any control at that time over the Bank Directors, matters, instead of being much better, would have been much worse.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  expressed his surprise that any one could argue that in
 489
 Lord Althorp  said, that there were several modes in which this publication might take place, and he must say, he thought that chosen by the hon. Gentleman the worst which could have been chosen. The proposition contained in the Bill was not exactly that of which he individually approved, but it was thought the best by his colleagues, and he had yielded the point to them. He had, in the early part of his correspondence with the Bank Directors, recommended the publication of their bullion accounts one week under the other, at the expiration of three months, shewing the state in which they had been three months previously; but the objection made to that was, that if the accounts were published in that manner, the public would be likely to imagine that the state of the Bank was the same at the moment of publication as it had been when those accounts were made up; and, therefore, the publication would rather mislead than inform the public. He then made a proposition for the weekly publication of bullion accounts, with a view to show in what state those accounts had been three months previous to each weekly day of publication; but it was said, that this would sometimes be injurious to the public, as it would be likely to create a mistaken impression of the state of the public accounts, for when the demand for bullion, arising from particular circumstances, became great, the public would see the demand, but not understanding the reasons for it, might be apt to draw erroneous inferences, from which some very mischievous consequences might arise. Great changes of this sort had taken place in the early part of this year.
 490 l l
 Mr. Strutt  said, that his object was, to get a complete statement, and he should prefer the weekly publication of the accounts to the averages of the quarter.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the arguments of the noble Lord against this peculiar mode of publication might have been used on behalf of any government which conducted its transactions in secret. Persons arguing in that mode fastened on a particular incident, gave it as an instance of inconvenience, and then formed their general rule upon it. That sort of argument would go to put an end to all publication whatever, and thus, from the fear of a particular inconvenience, they were to put an end to the steady control of public opinion. The result would be, that the public would find themselves kept in almost the same state of ignorance as before. No information would be furnished to the banks of issue all over the country, and yet they were continually finding tank with those banks for not regulating their issues according to the state of the foreign exchanges. The Government should give them the requisite knowledge, and then, no doubt, they would shape their conduct by it.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, that the publication of these accounts, was the only security that the public had for the good conduct of the Bank. The noble Lord had himself formerly declared, that the monopoly placed in the hands of the Bank
 491 l l
 Lord Althorp  denied, that the Bank Directors employed the knowledge which their situation gave them in their own private affairs; and, therefore, in discussing this Bill, he hoped hon. Members would refrain altogether from throwing out insinuations on their conduct. The object of the clause was, to frame the best mode of bringing under the control of public opinion the general affairs of the Bank; and the question was, how that could be best attained, and whether it was by a publication such as he had proposed, or whether by a more frequent publication? The publication he proposed, would give every information up to the period at which it was made. At the commencement of a quarter the issues of the Bank were considerably increased, and at
 492 l l l
 Mr. Warburton  suggested, that the publication monthly, of the three preceding months, by which there would be twelve averages in the year, would afford a great deal more information, and give greater security to the public.
 Mr. Grote  admitted the candid manner in which the noble Lord had treated this question; but what the noble Lord proposed was not the best mode of furnishing the required knowledge to the public. There should, at least, be a continuous series of the variations in the Bank circulation, and these ought to be laid before the public oftener than four times a-year, though the fear of danger from erroneous inferences in the public mind, appeared to him altogether chimerical. In his opinion, there ought to be a series of weekly accounts published in the way originally proposed by the noble Lord, carried up to three months anterior to the date of publication. The public would then be able to judge whether the fluctuations in the currency were too great. If he followed his own views, he should wish for a weekly publication in the  Gazette 493
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that after the explanation of the noble Lord, he had, perhaps, better leave the matter as it stood, but he must say a few words on this, which be deemed a most important question. What was the object they all had in view? It was to enable the public to regulate their transactions, as they would possess the same information as the Directors of the Bank. To that object he was not in the least degree opposed, but he contended that the weekly publication of the bullion accounts of the Bank, instead of giving information, would mislead the public. One instance had already been mentioned by the noble Lord, and it should be recollected that in this publication of the Bank accounts, the Bank would not be able to attach to each item an account of the reasons which had induced the Bank to make the alteration. That would be incurring a responsibility that they were not obliged, nor even called upon, to undertake. Yet, without such a note, the information would rather deceive the public than give them any real knowledge of the transactions of the Bank.
 Sir John Reid  declared, that the only feeling which influenced the Bank directors was the desire to promote the public prosperity, on the increase of which they were perfectly convinced their own depended.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  opposed the Amendment, for he thought that the Bank of England ought not to be compelled to
 494
 Sir John Wrottesley  rose, not for the purpose of objecting to the bargain that had been made with the Bank by the Clause, but to draw the attention of the Committee to the particular inconvenience that arose from the length of time which was suffered to elapse before the dividends were made and the Stock Exchange closed. A deal of time was at present taken up in making up the accounts, from the fact of so many fractions of a pound being allowed. No inconvenience would arise from allowing of no fraction lower than 2 s 495 s
 Mr. Alderman Thompson said, that the statement made by his hon. friend had taken him by surprise, so that he could give no answer to the suggestion he had made, nor, indeed, did he know that he should have been able to have given one, even had he been aware of that statement. The period during which Consols were now closed was about six weeks; but he did not think that that period would appear too long when he came to state the number of transfers which took place at the Bank in the course of one year, and the other business which it had to arrange. By a paper which he held in his hand, it appeared that the number of transfers at the Bank in one year was 286,572, and the amount of stock transferred was 304,218,791 l l l l 496
 The Solicitor General , in bringing up an additional Clause by way of rider, said, it had been prepared to put beyond all doubt the right to establish banks of deposits within the metropolis, and sixty-five miles round it. The Committee had been repeatedly informed that the basis of the contract between the Bank and the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the present state—that is, whatever monopoly they were entitled to they were still to enjoy, but nothing beyond it. Now, a question had been mooted whether the pre-existing monopolies entitled them to complain of the establishment of banks of deposit within the limits which he had described; and it appeared to him, after a diligent examination into all the cases, that there was no pretence for saying that the establishment of such banks was an encroachment on the monopoly of the Bank of England. A notion to the contrary had prevailed in some quarters, but, as it seemed to him, without the slightest foundation. He had looked into the Act, and he thought that no rational doubt could be entertained on the subject, and whatever doubt was entertained ought now to be cleared up, because it would be most discreditable to Government and the House to pass a law which was professedly equivocal, and thus leave it to Courts of Justice to put a construction on what they allowed to be doubtful. By the Act 6 of William and Mary, the Bank of England was established as a bank of issue. Now, in that Act there was nothing whatever to give it a monopoly, but there was in the 8th and 9th of William 3rd., which contained very general words, and on which, taken by themselves, without the intention of the Legislature, and without the context, it might be contended that, no private bank now existing in any part of the kingdom could be tolerated, because that Act expressly said. "That no other bank or any other corporation, society, or partnership, in the nature of a bank, shall be erected or established, permitted, tolerated, countenanced, or allowed, by Parliament, within this kingdom." But that must mean a bank  ejusdem generis 497 498
 Mr. Gisborne  objected to the Clause, and contended that while now the country bankers were virtually drawers of bills contrary to the provisions of this Clause on a very large scale, the effect of the adoption of the Clause would be entirely to put a stop to their business; for those banks would not be able to go on unless they had the power to draw bills to be accepted by their agents in town. He hoped that the Committee would take out from the Clause those words which would have the effect of preventing the joint-stock banks from doing business in the same manner as other private banks.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, it was impossible for him to allow this Clause to pass without making some observations upon it. According to the statements of the learned Solicitor General, it had been introduced for the purpose of making that clear which was admitted to be matter of doubt. He had every possible respect for the legal opinion of his learned friend, but he must be allowed to state, that there were lawyers of great eminence who entirely disagreed with that learned Gentleman as to the right of establishing banks of deposit in London, or within sixty-five miles of it, with more than six partners. He had always understood that Parliament legislated for the purpose of settling disputed questions; and when conflicting judgments had been given upon points by Courts of Justice, he had a right to contend, that the interpretation he had put upon the law, which was different from that of the learned Solicitor General, was the right one, because it had never been questioned in a Court of Justice, and had been universally acknowledged and acted upon by mercantile men. He thought upon this, as upon several other occasions, the noble Lord ought to have been satisfied with proposing one general Clause, reserving to the Bank those rights which it had hitherto enjoyed under the existing state of the law. The noble Lord had stated, no doubt
 499
 Lord Althorp  said, he was not aware that the Bank of England possessed any exclusive privilege as a bank of deposit, and he had always understood that there was nothing to prevent any banks of deposit being established in the Metropolis. Undoubtedly the bargain which he had made with the Bank of England was, that their privileges were not to be diminished; but, in agreeing to that, he declared that he should not feel himself justified in agreeing to any extension of their privileges. He was not aware of any high legal authority, whose opinion was not that the true interpretation of the law was that which the clause set forth. He should feel himself bound to stand by the clause, as it was proposed by the Solicitor General. It was true that he had, in an off-hand way, on being asked a question in the House, told the hon. Gentleman opposite, that he did not intend to propose the establishment of banks of deposit in London consisting of more than six partners, and that was because he thought that such was then the law; but, although he wished the Bank of England to be the sole bank of issue in the Metropolis, he had no intention of giving it any additional privileges injurious to private banks. It appearing, then, to be the law, that banks of deposit might be established in London consisting of more than six partners, he could not object to clearing up what doubt might hang over the law.
 Mr. Clay  held in his hand the opinion of two eminent gentlemen of the legal profession on this subject, and they entirely concurred in the opinion expressed by the Solicitor General, whose authority, however, required no corroboration. The Bank had certainly good reason for wishing to deprive the public of places of deposit so
 500 l l l
 Sir John Wrottesley  could not let so important a clause pass without making an observation upon it. One thing, however, which surprised him was, that, on so important a question, so comparatively few Members were in attendance. The present Parliament had been elected under the impression that all monopolies should cease. By looking at the public papers, he found that 300 out of the 658 Members were pledged at the hustings to vote for the repeal of all monopolies, more particularly the Bank and East-India; yet now, when they were discussing one of the most important of all, there were not above fifty Members present. In the year 1826, that House was engaged in finding a remedy for the panic that then took place. It did not, however, blame the Bank of England, but most unjustly, in his opinion, threw all the blame on the country bankers. The measures then proposed were hurried through Parliament, and, without inquiry, the greater part of the country banking establishments were most materially injured. The laws of that year stated the insufficiency of the country bankers, and the then Parliament agreed
 501
 Sir Henry Willoughby  doubted extremely the policy of the clause introduced by the learned Solicitor General. Returns had been presented to the House which proved, that in London the system of banking was not by any means perfect; for, since 1824, 13 bankers had become bankrupt in London, and 36 within the district of 65 miles.
 Mr. Grote  denied that any evidence existed to show, that any practical evil resulted from the London banking system. As to the returns alluded to by the hon. Baronet, he only wondered, from the manner in which they were made out, that instead of 13 there were not 113 who had been bankrupt. Several were included in those returns who were army and navy agents, and who could not, properly speaking, be called bankers. He, therefore, contended, that no practical evil had resulted from the present London banking system.
 Lord Althorp  could not concur in the
 502
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, if the Amendment were carried the hours of labour would be only ten and a half per day, and he was sure that that was not the wish of the House. Respecting a similar clause in Sir John Hobhouse's Bill, some doubts had been
 528
 Mr. Plumtre  regretted, that the question of the morals of the rising generation was not suffciently considered in this Bill. He should support the Amendment.
 Mr. Edward Stanley  said, the Bill, so far from neglecting the morals of the children, went very far to improve them. He thought the Amendment would be productive of the most injurious consequences, and he should oppose it.
 Sir Alexander Hope  begged to say, for the honour of many masters in his neighbourhood, that they, had not waited for a compulsory clause, having engaged schoolmasters at their own expense to educate the children employed in the factories.
 Mr. Cobbett  approved of the Amendment of the hon. member for Shoreham, and only wished that hon. Members could see the children dragged weeping through the snow to their work—the child and the mother both weeping—the child at being forced, and the mother at being obliged to force it.
 Mr. George Wood  begged to say, that the Amendment did not apply to such cases as the hon. member for Oldham mentioned.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, the suggestion framed on the Report of the central Commissioners, with respect to double relays of children, was in the teeth of the great mass of evidence collected by those Commissioners who had gone through the country. Commissioners, masters of mills, managers, impartial witnesses, parents, and operatives, all wonderfully coincided
 529 d.
 Lord Althorp  always had entertained very great doubts whether the Bill would increase the comforts of the labourers. The country had decided, that they ought to protect the children from over-work, and on that ground he had taken up the Bill, when the noble Lord opposite (Lord Ashley) abandoned it. He agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, that there was great difficulty about the relays, and that it would not be beneficial to the children; but he had always thought Parliament could not legislate on this subject without incurring the risk of producing mischief.
 Sir Henry Parnell  advised the House to take some time to reconsider this subject, that the clause might not be allowed to come into operation until the subject could be brought before the House again next Session. With that view he should move, as an Amendment, to insert in the clause instead of the words "1st of January, 1834," the "1st of July, 1834."
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, it was his intention to move an Amendment, to the effect, that the operation of the clause should be postponed till six months after the passing of this Act, instead of the 1st
 530
 Colonel Torrens  would support the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet. In the manufacturing districts the impression was general, that the Ten Hours' Bill was required; and they were determined to have it. He denied, that the passing of this Bill would satisfy the operatives or the country.
 Mr. George Wood  wished, that instead of the clause commencing at nine years of age, it should commence at eight, by which means twenty-five per cent more labour would be obtained. He intended, after the present Amendment was disposed of, to move, as an Amendment, which was perfectly in accordance with the marginal note to the clause, that the Bill be brought into operation as regarded children of eleven years of age at one period, twelve years at another period, and thirteen years at another period.
 Mr. George Wood  moved, that the words "within the factories or mills" be left out. The object of the clause was, that the children should not take their meals upon the premises, in order that fraud might be avoided; but he did not think it was to be apprehended.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  feared by the Amendment the law would be evaded, as it would be difficult to obtain information of what went on within side the mills; for the parties who would be likely to complain would be under the control of those against whom the complaints should be made. It would be impossible to say, whilst the children were within the mill, whether they were employed all the time or not.
 Lord Duncannon  said, that the point, whether the gallery at Whitehall could not be extended, had been considered; and it was thought that it might. As to the last question put by the hon. Gentleman, he (Lord Duncannon) doubted whether it would be any satisfaction to him to know the whole cost of the marble arch. It had certainly been very expensive, and a proposal had been made to pull it down; but it was thought, that that would be a fresh source of charge, and that the best mode would be to finish it merely as it stood at present. Originally it had been designed to make it much higher, but it was considered that in that case it would overbear the palace. He had the pleasure of assuring the hon. Member and the House, that the marble arch had been entirely paid for, though it had already cost 70,000 l.
 Mr. Littleton  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Arrears of Tithes (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Wilks  put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether he would proceed with a measure of this kind without further estimates as to the sums which were to be supplied. This Bill was to grant an advance of
 538 l.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there were two points in which this grant was to be looked at—first, one of regret, that a sum of this amount was to be screwed out of the pockets of the people—and next, of satisfaction that the people of England must now see, that if the Government would force a religious establishment upon the majority of the people of Ireland, they (the English people) would have to pay for it. We had before to pay for this establishment directly and indirectly; but the measure now before the House asked for direct payment from this country; and for his own part, in order to spare the shedding of blood, if the establishment were to be kept up at all, he preferred the direct mode of paying; but he hoped the people of England would consider well that this was the effect of continuing to force a religion upon a people which they did not like.
 Mr. Littleton  hoped, as the question now before the House was only for reading the Order of the Day, that hon. Members would not go into the discussion. He hoped they would allow the Order of the Day to be read, and the discussion to come on in its proper place, when he should be able to satisfy the House that, though a million was nominally to be voted, the whole of that sum would not be required.
 Mr. Hume  had every objection to allow the Bill to advance even so far as the reading the Order of the Day. The proposition which it involved was most monstrous; that a grant of 1,000,000 l. 539 l. l. l. l. 540 l. l. 541
 Mr. Littleton  observed, that the hon. member for Middlesex begged delay—delay even to the moderate extent of twenty-four hours, and to that request he should not perhaps have been disposed to refuse his consent, had it not been accompanied by a speech, the character of which was anything but moderate. That speech compelled him, however reluctantly, to enter somewhat into the details of the question. He thought that on a former occasion, he had laid before the House
 542 l. l. l. 543
 Mr. Harvey  was of opinion, that the measure before the House would act as an encouragement to resistance in all similar cases—that it would give some satisfaction to the Irish people he had no doubt, for, of course, no people could be dissatisfied when others come forward to pay their debts for them; but it was a measure every way worthy of the Government, which professed to reform the Church by perpetuating every one of its abuses. They talked of the Church Establishment in Ireland; and how had they dealt with it, and in what manner had they gone about reforming it? By fixing and perpetuating an income for its use of one million and a-half—an establishment not of the slightest advantage to more than half a million of the inhabitants. What would be the next application to Parliament? Why, when landlords found that their rents were failing, they had nothing to do but come to the House, and state, that an unconquerable combination againstrents had been formed, that nothing could at present be obtained from their tenants, and that they must request of Parliament to recognize—such would be the delicate phrase—a loan for five years to meet the emergency. But had all that come upon them as a matter of surprise? Had Government no intimation of the approaching storm? Were there no symptoms to warn them of the danger of endeavouring to oppress nine-
 544 l. l. l. 545 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, there were three points in the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Harvey). He stated a principle in which he (Mr. Shaw) entirely concurred. He entered into a calculation of figures which he (Mr. Shaw) would prove to be completely erroneous; and then the hon. Member indulged in some eloquent declamation against the Irish Church, which appeared to him (Mr. Shaw) to be altogether inapplicable to the question then before the House. The principle in which he agreed with the hon. Member was, that the whole course adopted by the present Government, in respect of the clergy of the Established Church was holding out a bounty to insubordination, and affording an example of successful resistance to a legal demand which no doubt would be followed in other cases. With regard to the assertion of the hon. Member, that the property of the Irish Church amounted to one million and a half he was grossly mistaken; he had exaggerated its value more than double; and the fact was, that, instead of 1,500,000 l. l. 546 l. l. l. l. 547 548
 Mr. O'Ferrall  regretted to hear from the right hon. Secretary, that, in the event of
 549 l. l.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that he would very briefly state the reasons which induced him to support this measure. He would not support this Bill if he thought that it went to give, as some hon. Members had said, a premium to violence and insubordination in Ireland, neither would he give it his support if he imagined that it would have the effect which the hon. member for Middlesex seemed to wish for, namely, that of sweeping away the Church of Ireland altogether.
 Mr. Hume  said, that what he had stated was, that he thought Parliament should in the first instance proceed to consider the question of the reduction of the Church Establishment of Ireland.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that while he was one of those who thought that that Establishment was much greater than it ought to be, yet he must say that several measures had been brought forward this session by his Majesty's Government to reduce it, and establish it upon a better footing, and he considered the present measure as one amongst the number. He would not support this measure if he thought that it meant, as some hon. Members had said it did, that this should be considered as
 550
 Mr. O'Ferrall , in explanation, begged to say, that the statement to which the noble Lord had alluded had been made in the last Session in a discussion on the measure with regard to tithes, then brought forward by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On that occasion, when some Protestant landlords, members of that House, protested against having such a burthen thrown on them, he (Mr. O'Ferrall) said, that the Catholic landlords would not refuse to take such a burthen on themselves, if they thought that in doing so they would rescue their country from the disturbed and distracted state into which it was plunged. That was what he said then; he said the same now.
 Mr. Warre  said, that feeling it to be his duty on this occasion to dissent from the proposition made by his Majesty's Government, he was anxious, in a few words, to explain the reasons which induced him to do so. From the first moment that this proposition had been made he could not avoid regarding it with a degree of suspicion, and after looking
 551
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he could not allow this Bill to pass a single stage without expressing the strongest opposition both to its principle and its details. This measure offered a premium to the violators of the law, and instead of being one that could be described as intended for the protection of property, it was a direct spoliation of, and attack upon, property. He trusted, that the House would not sanction such a measure. Parliament ought to have taken steps long ago to reduce the Church Establishment of Ireland, and, until that was done, there would be no chance of the restoration of tranquillity in that country.
 Lord Althorp  was anxious to state to the House the circumstances under which this question was now being discussed. It had been said, that his Majesty's Ministers had, by different measures in the course of the present Session, endeavoured to settle the question of tithes in Ireland, and a measure, the Coercion Bill, which had been passed at the commencement of the Session, had been quoted as one of those measures. He was aware, that during the progress of that measure through the House, several of those Gentlemen who opposed it had, amongst other objections to it, repeatedly asserted, that it would be employed for the purpose of enforcing the payment of tithes in Ireland. To that assertion his Majesty's Ministers had over and over again given the most unqualified contradiction, and in order the still more completely to convince the House that the Coercion Bill was not intended for the purpose of enforcing the
 552 553
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that however he might differ from the noble Lord with respect to the principles of this measure, under the circumstances of the case he felt it his duty to give it his support. The question in this instance regarded not the expediency or inexpediency of a Church Establishment in Ireland; but the question, as had been properly stated by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, was, whether law and property should be upheld in Ireland? The hon. member
 554
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that, upon principle, he felt it his duty to oppose the measure now before the House. He could not give his vote for a proposition which would prove only a temporary expedient for continuing a Church Establishment in contravention of the feelings of the vast majority of the people of Ireland.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he had as yet never taken any part in the discussions upon this Bill, but he owed it to the House and to himself to give some explanation of the vote which it was his intention to give. He found those hon. Gentlemen who might fairly be presumed to represent the extreme opinions prevailing in Ireland differed materially concerning the measure now under the consideration of the House. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had expressed himself willing to support this vote, because it was a grant from England in aid of the distresses prevailing in Ireland. The hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), although he did not altogether support the vote upon these grounds, yet he had expressed the strongest doubts as to the repayment of these monies, in case, by the decision of the House, it should be granted. He must say, that however painful it might be to him to differ from those with whom he had been accustomed to act, yet, if this measure should be passed on such grounds, he should not hesitate to sacrifice his personal feelings, and give his vote and raise his voice against the proposed grant. Nothing would be more improper or more at
 555
 Colonel Torrens  observed, that Mr. Pitt, in his speeches upon the Roman Catholic question, had opposed the maintenance of a Church Establishment in Ireland, and the same feeling had been expressed by Dr. Paley. He should give his vote for the present measure. It had been said, that it was possible to put an extinguisher upon the demand for Church Reform, but he would remind the House, that the Dissenters having attained a pro-eminent weight in this country, they had heretofore directed their attention to the great question of slave emancipation; but that question having now been put an end to, they would at once apply their attention to a full and efficient Church Reform, both in Ireland and this country. He (Colonel Torrens) relied upon the
 556
 Mr. O'Reilly  was of opinion, that some gratitude was owing to the Government for bringing forward a measure well calculated to put an end to a system which had already given rise to and occasioned so much bloodshed in Ireland. He protested strongly against the supposition which had been much promulgated, that a wish prevailed to put the tithes in the pockets of the landlords. The tithe system was not new to the House or the country; history presented the same story for the last hundred years. He should not vote for the measure, on the grounds that the grant would never be recovered; on the contrary, he was satisfied, that Church property in Ireland afforded an ample and a full security. He also would, as a Roman Catholic, say, that the Roman Catholics had no wish to resist the payment of that which was legally due, or to uphold a resistance to tithes because they were paid to a Protestant clergy. He was most ready to deprecate the tithe system, established as it had been by the Roman Catholics themselves. He only hoped, that there would not be left in the tithe owner the power of keeping up the excited feeling which it was the object and design of the present measure to allay.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  rose to oppose the measure. Great as were the difficulties which surrounded the Government regarding the situation of the clergy, he could not but oppose it. He was surprised, that the hon. member for Oxford had been able so soon to overcome the difficulties which he himself had raised. He thought, that the hon. Member had forgot, that this measure would be a blow, not only to Church property, but to property of every description both in England and
 557
 Mr. Edward J. Stanley  said, that he never could consent to such an appropriation of the money of the people of England, unless he felt fully satisfied that the proposed grant would be repaid. If some easy means were not secured for the ensuring the recovery of these advances, or, in other words, that the repayment of the loan should not be secured, he would himself move the introduction of a clause into the Bill, to the effect that the first deductions from the sale of church lands should be appropriated to the repayment of the present proposed loan of one million.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  understood the opinion of the Government to be, that the Church-property in Ireland should be diminished, and given to the State, for the purposes of assisting the Roman Catholics and the Protestant Dissenters of this country; and he must assure his Majesty's Government, that they would find it to be their duty, early in the next Session of Parliament, to bring forward a measure of that kind. The Government could not be aware what was the opinion of the majority of the House relative to Church-property; but he sincerely hoped, that majority would be in favour of taking away at least one half million of that property; and he further trusted, that in the next Session his Majesty's Ministers would come forward with a measure for that purpose. He could say, that unless this were done, the proposed loan would never be repaid. He would put it to the English, Irish, and Scotch Members of the House, whether it was worth while to ensure the peace of Ireland for four or five years longer, by the advance of 1,000,000 l.
 Mr. Philip Howard  felt that, however deplorable the system of tithes in Ireland might be, it was the duty of Government to enforce it, so long as it existed, in the way least onerous and irritating to the people. The present Bill went to vindicate the rights of property, lay, as well as clerical; it would, he trusted, afford that calm and breathing time requisite to prepare the way for improved arrangements and a better system—a truce preparatory to a lasting peace. The prophe-
 558
 Mr. Hume  objected to keeping up a Church Establishment, which was the cause of continued dissension in the country, and to support which establishment this grant was now sought. The admission of the right hon. Gentleman opposite was, that he would place himself at the head of the troops, in order to enforce the payment of the arrears. The admissions which had been made equally proved that all the disturbances arose from the Church Establishment; nay, even the noble Lord had admitted, that such was the feeling of resistance, that he had taken upon himself to forbid all legal process for the collection of tithes. What was this but a confession, that the people of Ireland had so great an abhorrence of tithes that not even the powers of the Act of last year, nor the unconstitutional measure of the present Session, with all the aid of military force which this country could command, could not carry the payments into effect. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies would not deny, that when hs asked last year for the powers which he obtained, that he fully anticipated to be able to vindicate the law. The result, however, had been otherwise; and every month's experience must have taught him that all these powers against the majority of a nation availed him nothing. He (Mr. Hume) was surprised, after this experience, that the Government did not take a lesson, and at once submit to the House the question, whether, by Martial Law should be enforced an establishment which breathed peace and goodwill towards all mankind. It was time now the Church should be so modified as to meet the views and feelings of the majority of the people. The present grant was unwise, and such as no reasonable man could recommend; and feeling satisfied that it never could be repaid, he felt it due to the people of England, who were crying out for relief from taxation; and seeing also that an objection prevailed that this grant should meet the least
 559
 Mr. Cobbett  admitted, that the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, could not do less than bring forward the measure now before the House, but, if the noble Lord had gone a little further, and said this Bill was the first instalment towards paying the Irish clergy their salaries, in order that tithes should no longer be collected, the noble Lord should have had his support. The noble Lord, however, did not go that length, and he felt convinced that Ireland would never be at peace, until there was an entire and complete cessation from the collection of tithes. If peace could be restored, he was sure that his constituents, and indeed the people of England, would be glad to make any sacrifice; for when millions were granted to the West Indies, in order to settle quietly the question of slavery, 1,000,000 l.
 Mr. Perrin  supported the Bill. It could not be denied, that the present incumbents must be supported, and it was equally plain that, in Ireland, the tithe composition measure could not efficiently be carried into effect.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that, on this occasion, he felt it his duty to offer a few remarks to the House, and he regretted he should be now met, as on all former occasions (humble and young a Member as he was), by such cries as he now experienced, and amidst which he recognized the voice of the hon. member for North Wiltshire.
 Mr. Methuen  rose to order. He understood, according to the rules of the House, any hon. Member was at liberty to say "Hear, hear!" to any observations which might fall, and until he (Mr. Methuen) heard from the Speaker that such was disorderly, he should not yield in the course he should pursue.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that the voice of the hon. member for North Wiltshire
 560
 Lord Duncannon  replied, that the hon. Member was quite correct in his information. The sum of 50,000 l. l. 535 l. l. l.
 Lord Duncannon  could answer the hon. Member exactly on that subject. He was aware, no doubt, that 75,000 l. l. 536 l.
 Lord Duncannon  remarked, that a gallery for pictures only, and not for statues, was originally contemplated. As to the second point of the hon. Baronet, he could state, that the chapel in Whitehall had been examined by competent persons, who had assured him that it was peculiarly adapted for the reception of the national pictures, the light would be extremely good, by placing them upon screens between the windows. It was undoubtedly true, that the building had never been consecrated; and when the project was mentioned to his Majesty, he was pleased to express his entire approbation of it. As to the extent to which Ministers were pledged, he must say, that he thought they were pledged to the architect to the extent of the grant already made for this object by Parliament. That individual had been directed to prepare a plan upon the scale of 50,000 l. l. 537 l. l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that when he saw the avidity with which the clause in question had been hailed by those who were desirous of altering the standard of the currency of the country, he could not but regret its introduction into the Bill. He should very much regret to see the Bank of England assume the functions of the whole circulation of the country. He was opposed to the clause,
 Colonel Torrens  contended, that no depreciation would be caused in the London district; and, in the rest of the country, the only depreciation would be caused by the expense merely of carriage—so small a depreciation that it might be rated at zero.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that it would have been better to allow the trade to remain for some time longer in the hands of the Company, or at least to have allowed them to participate in it along with the private traders. He doubted whether the agents or consuls appointed by the Bill would be recognised by the China government, and believed it would have been better to have had some previous communication with that power.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he should give his support to the Bill. He thought, that there was no fear of collision between our seamen and the Chinese.
 Lord Sandon  inquired when the China trade would be thrown open?
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that the East-India Company's privileges would not expire until April, 1834; and that, therefore, they would not give up any of their commercial advantages until then.
 Mr. Chapman  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Robert Grant  opposed it.
 Mr. Littleton  said, he had a Petition to present from Mr. Molyneux, a Magistrate for the counties of Stafford and Worcester, and also for the town of Dudley, in which he carried on the business of a banker, complaining of a statement made by the hon. and learned Solicitor General—the effect of which was, that the Magistrates of Dudley were such, as in their absence he did not like to describe, that the people did not appoint them, had no control over them, and therefore they gave little satisfaction to the people, but were in truth political partisans. The statement thus said to have been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman had been posted up in the town, and had, of course, excited considerable attention. There were four gentlemen who filled the office of Magistrates in the town of Dudley, and he (Mr. Littleton) begged leave to state, that having long had the pleasure of knowing each of these gentlemen who acted for that part of the county of Stafford, he could positively declare, that there could not be found men of greater honour and respectability in every way. As to the charge of their being political partisans, and, as the statement intimated, partisans of a kind not accordant with the feelings of the people of Dudley, the hon. and learned Gentleman must be in error in some degree; for he (Mr. Littleton) could only say, that he thought them the reverse, for they gave him their best support during the late election. The petition prayed for an investigation into the subject.
 Mr. G. Wood  moved, that the legal tender clause be omitted.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to impress upon Government, that whatever site was selected, it ought to be capable of extension; and he ventured to doubt whether the gallery at Whitehall would be capable of extension. It might be suited for a temporary deposit of the pictures, but not for a permanent gallery. Individuals might, and no doubt would, make valuable bequests and donations to the gallery, and there ought to be room to add pictures as they were obtained. He begged the noble Lord to state what, from first to last, the marble arch at Buckingham Palace had cost the country.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to obtain further information regarding another building. He had observed a great deal of scaffolding about Buckingham Palace; had any increased expense been incurred there, or was it intended to complete the whole on the scale and plan already submitted to the House?
 Mr. Hume  wished to put a question to the noble Lord opposite of some importance. The sum of 50,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  supported the Motion. He conceived the clause in question calculated to cause a depreciation of the currency. He was sorry to find that on this subject, the Ministers had abandoned their former principles. He thought the public interest sacrificed by the Bill, and that of the Bank alone consulted.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that if the custom was what the hon. Baronet supposed—
 534
 Sir Francis Burdett  did not understand from what had passed, that there was any imputation cast on the character of these gentlemen; but it was well known, that it had been long matter of complaint, that the Magistracy of the country had strong political partialities and political feelings, so that, though they might not be suspected of partiality in the ordinary administration of justice, it was notorious that the system was not as satisfactory as it ought to be. This, at least, was clear, that the subject was one well deserving the attentive consideration of the House, especially as it related to the administration of the laws by men who were in situations and circumstances that rendered them less responsible than others were. There was a great deal in the laws of this country upon subjects connected with the present that required amendment. He had often been struck with this, and the opinion he had formed had been enforced by what he had seen in the papers this morning. A trial had taken place at Lewes, and a man of good character had there been found guilty of sheep-stealing. It seemed, that there was in that county a custom, that when two lambs were dropped by one ewe, the shepherd was to have one of them. As this event did not probably often take place, the loss to the master was not very considerable, and, at any rate, it appeared to him, that there was no harm in the custom. But notwithstanding this, a man of good character was condemned for the offence of sheep-stealing, when it appeared that he had only taken that which was permitted by custom, and the man was to be transported for life. He had taken this opportunity of mentioning this circumstance, and hoped that this really innocent and honest man would not suffer the shame of being transported.
 The Solicitor General  asked for the indulgence of the House while he made a few observations upon the matter of this petition, and, in making them, he should do what he could to avoid touching on a breach of privilege. He certainly should not oppose the prayer of the petition for an investigation, and the result of it, he was sure, would show, that the Magistracy of that part of the country was in an unsatisfactory state. He begged, however, at the same time, to declare, that he had made no personal imputations on any of these gentlemen. He had not charged them with misconduct, nor did he charge them now. All he had said was—and to
 532 533
 Sir Oswald Mosley  begged to bear his testimony to the good character of the Dudley Magistracy. He was Chairman of the Quarter Sessions there, and consequently had often met them in Court, and more respectable individuals he did not believe to exist.
 Sir Robert Inglis  reminded the House, that the intended gallery was for sculptures as well as for paintings. Another point was whether at Whitehall a good light could be obtained for the pictures. He was quite aware, that the public feeling could not in any degree be outraged by converting the chapel into a gallery, as it had never been consecrated. This fact, however, was not universally known. He expressed his regret, that when the new room for the King's Library was built, the notion of a National Gallery had not been entertained.
 Lord Althorp  then moved an additional clause, to the effect that all Bills of Exchange, Bank-Post-Bills, and Promissory Notes issued from the branch banks of the Bank of England out of London should be payable only at the places from which they should be issued.
 Lord Althorp  denied that a depreciation of the currency would be the consequence of the adoption of the measure.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought the Amendment unnecessary. If there was any culpable negligence on the part of the proprietor of the mill, and any life was lost in consequence, he would be responsi-
 584
 Mr. Hardy  said, that the inspectors could hardly be so ignorant, as not to know whether a dangerous part of the machinery was or not well fenced off. Surely, when a man was punished for manslaughter, if he drove over any person, he ought to be liable to some punishment if he left things in such a way that accidents must almost necessarily happen.
 Mr. George Wood  objected to the Amendment. The proprietors of these mills had every wish to protect the children, and yet they of all men were marked out to be put under the ban of the law. The hon. member for Bradford, when he proposed this Amendment, seemed to forget that the collieries in the neighbourhood of the town he represented were, at least, as dangerous as cotton-mills, and instead of this Bill being confined to four trades, it should embrace all trades whatever. Yet there was no Act compelling the owners of coal-mines to see that those places were properly ventilated, and the ropes of the machinery lowered down the pits.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that so far as concerned those manufacturers who now took every proper precaution, this Clause would have no effect. It could not hurt their feelings that the Committee should have thought fit to introduce such a Clause, and as to others, they would have no right to complain of it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the inspectors would not probably know anything of machinery, and their interference might be more injurious than beneficial. Suppose he were to offer himself for an inspector, he might be a good inspector as could be as to the health of the children, and their food and time of labour, but he should not be able to judge of the machinery, and he might think there was danger where there was none, and he might order fences to be put up which would stop the machinery. He thought it a good rule not to interfere in the management of a man's private concerns. They might just as well appoint inspectors to every great kitchen to prevent the little girls from scalding themselves. He should oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  objected to the Clause. It went to take away one-half of the wages of the children and two hours of their time, in order to teach them reading and writing. He thought they would derive more benefit from keeping their wages and having those two hours for repose or healthful amusement. At all events, that matter should be left to their parents. He, therefore, moved, that the words, "if the parents of such child shall require it, and not otherwise," be inserted.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  considered the provision for educating the children one of the best features of the Bill.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that the arrangement would, in fact, compel the children to work ten hours a-day, as the two hours devoted to education would be in addition to the eight hours. He thought the expense of education ought to be paid by the State, and not by the children.
 Mr. Robinson  protested against the idea that the time to be occupied in education was an aggravation of the labour.
 Mr. Cobbett  would vote for the Clause; that would prevent the children from being so much worked as they otherwise would be.
 Mr. Hume  supported the Clause, and took this as a first instalment towards a general system of education.
 Mr. Attwood  withdrew his Amendment.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  moved as an Amendment, that the deduction from the children's wages should not exceed one penny a-week. The pupils in the national schools did not pay more than a penny a-week.
 Mr. George  Wood objected to it as being of a criminative character, and proposed another to the effect, that "Whereas, at present, children were worked for too long a time consistent with their health and the purposes of necessary education, it was expedient to alter such time."
 Mr. George Wood , on Clause 8th, which enacts that the employment of children under eleven, twelve, and thirteen years of age, for more than eight hours a-day, should be prohibited, moved, as an Amendment, that at the expiration of six months after the passing of the Act, no child under eleven years of age should be permitted to work more than eight hours; that no child under the age of twelve years should be permitted, after the expiration of eighteen months from the passing of the Bill, to work for more than eight hours a-day; and that after the expiration of two years from the passing of the Bill, no child under thirteen years should be permitted to work more than eight hours a-day. This, he said, he did, that the effect of the Bill might be gradual.
 Lord Althorp  objected to the Amendment as postponing the operation of the Bill till March, 1835.
 Captain Elliott  would support the Amendment, from his knowledge of the impossibility of procuring relays. The information from the country convinced him that a graduated scale would be infinitely preferable.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  observed, that the principle of gradation was, perhaps, necessary to carry the Bill efficiently into effect, so, indeed, as to insure the co-operation of the masters. He certainly was in favour of the Amendment, though he had some doubts whether the House would be prepared to go the whole length of his hon. friend.
 Lord Morpeth  was averse to the adoption of such lengthened periods; but he would not object to a graduated system, the extent of time being limited to six months.
 Mr. Hyett  seconded the Amendment. Though the Bill might remedy abuses in some districts, in
others it would cause great poverty and distress, and families would be reduced by it from 10 s s
 Mr. Edward Stanley  could not see how, in consistency with its pledges to the country, the House could adopt the principle of the hon. Member. The House had already decided the question of the Ten Hours' Bill.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that this subject had been before the House many times, and if he had not shown that restlessness of feeling that might have been expected, he would candidly state the reason why. He wished it to be expressly understood, that so far as these Motions affected him, his feelings were not, in the slightest degree, disturbed by them. Every Gentleman in that House came there with the credentials of the approbation of his constituents. So far as this was a recommendation, there was not a Member of that House who had a prouder testimonial than his. He was now addressing the sixth Parliament of which he had been a Member, and always for the same place, and the same constituents. There might be Members who had represented places for a longer space of time, but not under the same circumstances as he had represented Colchester. Some Gentlemen represented millions, not minds; and by the force of their property they selected the places for which they sat. Not so with him. He was proud to say, that he had the personal as well as the political, approbation of his constituents.
 579 580
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he did not intend either to criticise or to attack any other party in the statement of facts which he had just made. It was not his wish, nay more, it was not his interest to do so. Though there was at present no Motion before the House, he said that this was a subject in which the public ought to take an interest, in which it should take an interest, in which it must take an interest; for these inns of court claimed to exercise a species of despotism which was positively insupportable. He was stating, before he was interrupted, that several of his friends. Members of that House, had applied to be admitted into the benchers' room. The benchers' declared that they were not admissible. He then appealed to his friends as to what he should do, and they were of opinion that he would be sacrificing a great principle, for which he had long been contending, if he did not withdraw his application altogether from a conclave which formed its decisions in a private room. So much with regard to the history of the past: now with regard to the future. He had sent a letter to the benchers of the Inner Temple to say, that he would renew his application to be called to the bar in the next Session if they would allow besides himself, and his counsel, and the
 581
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that, without meaning any disrespect to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, he must say, that no Member of Parliament could so easily convey in a few words very harsh and ungenerous imputations. He meant, he repeated, no disrespect to the hon. and learned Gentleman, but he was bound to state, that what the hon. and learned Gentleman had just asserted respecting the twelve Judges was not true. This case had not been referred to the twelve Judges, and that was the very point of which he complained. The twelve Judges of England formed a tribunal sitting in open Court, and not capable of sitting in private on any case. All that they had said was, that they were not competent to depart from the decision of the benchers, and though Mr. Brougham and Mr. Denman were standing at the door of Serjeants' Inn, with twenty witnesses to be examined, the twelve Judges came to the resolution that they had not power to examine one amongst them.
 Mr. Warburton  would not oppose the Resolution, but at the same time he must say, that, considering the large number of persons whose interests were involved in the question, it was perfectly impossible
 587
 Mr. Hume  believed the Solicitor General to be correct in stating, that these prosecutions had not been instituted by the Government, but it should be recollected
 583
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he had a Resolution to propose on which it was his intention to found a Bill. This Resolution, he begged to say, had not been founded on the report of the Committee. He disapproved of that report, because its object was to restore the old and objectionable system. At the same time he thought it impossible for any one to read the evidence which had been given before the Committee without feeling a wish that the constitution of beerhouses should be improved, and he hoped that this object might be effected without having recourse to any objectionable enactment. He proposed to raise the character of the beer-shops by raising the price of the licence. He would still, however, leave the licences to be granted by the Excise-office, and would confer no additional jurisdictions on Magistrates, except with respect to police regulations. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the following Resolution:—" That for every licence to be granted to any person to sell beer, or ale, or porter, by retail in any part of Great Britain, shall be paid the sum of 5 l s
 Mr. Cobbett  took occasion to refer to the case of an individual whom he stated to have been convicted for selling unstamped newspapers, and fined 20 l
 Mr. Cobbett. —Well, then, take the number at fifty.
 Mr. Cobbett  wished to hear from the Solicitor General a disclaimer of the cruelty with which the party to whom he referred had been treated.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, that though the whole of this proceeding was highly irregular, yet, as he was the only bencher present out of the large number who had been charged by the hon. Member with injustice and oppression, he must be permitted to say, that the decision of the benchers in the hon. Member's case had been confirmed by the twelve Judges unanimously, and therefore if oppression and injustice were to be charged against the benchers of the Inner Temple, he desired that the twelve Judges might also take their share of it.
 The Solicitor General  denied, that the Government, or any one connected with them, had instituted the prosecutions complained of, which, as far as he knew, were the work of common informers. With respect to the case mentioned by the hon. member for Oldham, he thought the hon. Gentleman must be misinformed. He could not believe that the person had been either sentenced or put to hard labour; neither did he imagine it possible that the other acts of severity complained of should have been committed. If the hon. Member could make out such a case of oppression, he (the Solicitor General) pledged himself to do his utmost to redress it.
 Lord Althorp  again dissented from the statement.
 Lord Althorp. —No.
 Lord Althorp  rose to order. He had not interrupted the hon. and learned Gentleman while his statement was merely personal, although there was no Motion regularly before the House; but he begged leave to suggest that it would be better, as there was no question before the House, to refrain from criticising or attacking any other party.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  rose to bring forward a Motion, of which he had given notice, affecting the seat of the hon. member for Cambridge. In entering on this task, which he felt to be somewhat of an invidious and personal nature, he could assure the hon. Member, that he did it with great regret; but having moved for the papers, the contents of which seemed to make out a strong case, he should feel that he was justly subjecting himself to blame if he shrunk from the duty which the perusal of those papers seemed to impose upon him. He should do that duty fairly, and without exaggeration; and if in the course of what he was about to say he should state anything that was offensive to the feelings of the hon. Member, he begged the hon. Member to believe, that he did not intend it to be so. For that hon. Member he felt the greatest respect; and though their political feelings differed, nay, were wide as the poles asunder, he should be sorry to see him lose his seat, or even be put to the expense of a new election. He should now state what was the law upon this subject. The House were aware, that two Sessions ago, the whole system of the practice of bankruptcy had been altered,
 598 5 SIR.—I am directed by the Lord Chancellor to inform you, that you have been returned to him by the Judges as a fit person to be named as a Quorum Commissioner in Fiats in Bankruptcy, for a district comprising Cambridge and twenty miles around it. It is his Lord-
 599 I am, Sir, your most obedient Servant, WM. VIZARD. Cambridge, March SIR, I am honoured with your letter, informing me that the Judges of the Norfolk Summer Circuit, have recommended me to the Lord Chancellor as a Quorum Commissioner of Bankrupt at Cambridge, and twenty miles round. I am willing to accept the appointment if his Lordship should honour me with it. The usual number of Commissions or Fiats is so small, that they cannot form the pincipal occupation of a member of the legal profession; but I engage that no other professional business shall interfere to occasion any unnecessary delay in holding the meetings under a Fiat of Bankruptcy. I also engage not to act as Counsel under any Commission or Fiat within the district. I am. Sir, your obedient Servant, GEO. PRYME. To Wm. Vizard, Esq. Absence from Cambridge prevented me from answering the letter immediately. bona fide 600 601 bona fide.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that as this was a matter involving his seat in that House, he might be excused if he felt anxious to make a brief statement of how the matter stood, and he assured them that he should render it as brief as possible. The hon. and learned Member referred, in the first place, to the 1st and 2nd of William 4th, for the purpose of showing that none but the officers of the Bankrupt Court in London could be considered as holding situations under the Crown. The Commissioners of Bankrupt were officers appointed at as early a period as the reign of James 1st; but the circumstances of their appointment had since been frequently modified—even as recently as the 6th of George 4th a material change had been made. He would contend, and he expected with the utmost confidence, that he should succeed in making it clear to the House, that his case did not come under the description of one who had taken office under the Crown. He had not been appointed a Commissioner, but had been directed by a fiat to act under the Commissioners. The Commissioners were, certainly, appointed under the Great Seal, but it was under a fiat that persons acted in the country. By law it was required, that no person practising as a Barrister should be appointed a Commissioner, whereas, it was required, that persons acting under fiats, should at the time be practising barristers or attorneys in the county to which the fiat was directed. For these reasons, as well as for many others, he contended, that the word Commissioner, according to the Act, applied only to the London Commissioners, who were really Commissioners appointed under the Great Seal, and that it did not apply to those
 602
 The Attorney General , after alluding to the importance of the Motion, which was
 603
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  observed, that all those who had spoken on the opposite side of the question were lawyers; and with every respect for their opinions outside of the House, he had no great respect for them inside its walls. They were too much accustomed to the strict and legal mode of considering statutes, and considered too little the privileges of that House. He thought that to them might be applied the observation of Mr. Speaker Onslow to a lawyer, a Member of that House, that the Gentlemen of the Common-Law did not sufficiently consider the dignity and privileges of that House, but were too much bound by strictly technical rules; and that if a common-lawyer should be elected to the Chair of that House, the authority and dignity of the House would be materially lessened. He assured their right hon. Speaker, that no allusion was intended to be made to him, for though he had been a common-lawyer, yet he had not been long acquainted with the practice of the Courts.
 Lord Duncannon  said, that with respect to Somerset-house, the places occupied there by official persons, as they fell vacant, were not filled up. Nothing at present could be done towards rendering it fit for the accommodation of all the public offices until the repairs being made in the Stamp-office were finished. Arrangements, however, were in progress to render Somerset-house
 613
 Lord Duncannon  said, that this estimate had been prepared and laid before the House previous to the announcement to which the hon. Member had referred; and besides, much of it was for work that had already been executed.
 Lord Duncannon  said that upon a former evening he had not stated this arrangement as one suggested merely on economical grounds—he had stated it as one that recommended itself for adoption for the twofold reason, that a better gallery would be provided for the public, and at a more; economical price. Besides, this building had been always considered a most inappropriate one for a chapel. He believed, that so general was that feeling that upon a former occasion it had been proposed to convert it into a national library, and that the Bishop of the diocess had more than once stated that he did not regard it as a building properly calculated for a chapel. He could assure the noble Lord, upon the authority of persons who understood the subject well, that a better place, after certain alterations were made in it, could not be supplied for a national gallery than Whitehall Chapel.
 Lord Duncannon  stated, in reference to a former question of the hon. member for Middlesex, that nothing would be done for the conversion of Whitehall chapel into a national gallery without due consideration. It was necessary to make some arrangement on the subject of the grant at this late period of the Session, and the smaller sum had been proposed as most expedient, under all the circumstances. If the national gallery were not erected at Trafalgar-square, no appropriation of the ground would take place till the reassembling of Parliament.
 Colonel Evans  expressed his disapprobation of the plan of converting the chapel at Whitehall into a gallery for the reception of works of art. He thought that a new building for the purpose should be commenced immediately in Trafalgar Square.
 Lord Duncannon  said, he was informed that Whitehall Chapel would perfectly answer the purpose to which it was intended to appropriate it; but if, upon ex
 624
 Colonel Evans  hoped, that, as the sense of the House was in favour of the erection of a new gallery in Trafalgar-square, the noble Lord would pause before he took any steps with respect to Whitehall Chapel.
 Lord Duncannon  said, that by converting the chapel at Whitehall into a gallery, instead of building a new one, a great saving would be effected.
 Colonel Evans  said, that the cheap plan was proposed under the idea that the House would refuse a grant sufficiently large to enable a new gallery to be built, but, now that that notion was dissipated, surely it was advisable at once to commence the building in Trafalgar-square.
 Lord Duncannon  said, that Government were bound to act upon Mr. Wilkins's plan if a new gallery should be built.
 Lord Duncannon  explained, that his declaration as to Government being bound to follow Mr. Wilkins's plan must be received with this qualification—that they were bound to do so only in the event of his undertaking to complete the building for 62,000 l
 Lord Duncannon  said, that Mr. Wilkins had prepared his plan under the authority of the Treasury; and, if his contract for
 625 l l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  moved the third reading of this Bill.
 Mr. George F.  Young supported the amendment.
 Lord George Bentinck  read extracts from
 597 l l
 Lord George Somerset  must regret the intention which the noble Lord had intimated on the part of Government, of converting this chapel into a national gallery. He for one must deprecate the turning a place of worship into a national gallery, and he must especially deprecate it when, as in this instance, no other place of worship was previously provided for those who had been in the habit of attending at this chapel.
 Lord William Lennox , in supporting the prayer of the petition, said, that nothing could be more unjust than that a tax should be imposed upon the Merchant Seamen to support a public national institution; he was far from wishing to advocate any measure which would have the effect of injuring the establishment of Greenwich Hospital in any way whatever, or of depriving any seaman suffering from the infirmities incident to old age, or from wounds gained in his Majesty's service, of a home in his old age, and a comfortable establishment in his infirmity; but he thought the country ought to support its own national institutions, and not throw a burthen of twenty thousand pounds a-year upon the shipping interest of the country; for such it really was. The tax was a partial one, and being raised from a few individuals for a national object, became an unjust one. He trusted that his Majesty's Government would early next Session remove this iniquitous tax.
 Mr. Harvey  had looked into the Act, and he did not think that there was any ground for the Motion of the hon. Baronet. He thought, however, that there was nothing clearer than that the hon. and learned Gentleman had accepted the office; and he would deal with the question as if the hon. Gentleman were actually in office at that moment. The hon. and learned Member according to his view of the case, had not been appointed to the office under the Act of the 1st and 2nd William 4th. He merely continued to hold an office which he had held before that Act was in existence—namely, that of Commissioner of Bankrupt in the country, and the only object of the Act was, to regulate the mode of appointment. When he entered the House, he thought there could be no case clearer than that of the hon. and learned Member; but he admitted, that the learned Gentleman who hàd spoken in his behalf had contrived to raise some doubts in his mind. Notwithstanding that, however, he still contended, that in this case the hon. and learned Member had not incurred the penalty of vacating his seat.
 Mr. Lyall  had a petition to present on the same subject, and would take the opportunity of stating to the House his opinions upon it. When Greenwich Hospital was originally founded, it was intended for the reception of Merchant Seamen as well as others; but, in the reign of Queen Anne, it was found barely competent to the accommodation of the naval seamen, and it was then confined to them. In consequence of this, in the year 1747, the shipowners and merchants applied to Parliament, for an Act to establish separate Merchant Seamen's Hospitals, and, as a proof that the implied charge against the merchants and shipowners of taking advantage of the seamen was unjust, he would state, that the amounts from time to time levied under that Act, up to December, 1831, was 231,000 l. l. d. l. l l l.
 Mr. Robinson  objected strongly to the principle of the Bill, and thought, that no reason for forcing it on at the present late period of the Session had been established.
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that the House would be guilty of a dereliction of its duty if it did not justify itself from the imputation which had just been cast upon it. The hon. Gentleman had Said, that the hon. member for Oldham had been guilty of an indiscretion: he (Mr. Robinson) would go still further, and would say, that that hon. Member had been guilty of an act of gross injustice towards the House, for he had had the presumption to arrogate to himself the monopoly of all the philanthropy felt for the lower classes of the community. How could the hon. Member presume to arrogate to himself all the regard of the House for the interest of the poorer members of the community. He would not yield to that hon. Member in love for the lower classes, or in a desire to alleviate their misfortunes and distresses. What did the hon. Member mean by saying that we should be ashamed to see ourselves, upon walking out of the House, if we did not walk out in the darkness of night, instead of the brightness of day? And what connexion had he shown to exist between this vote and the alleged distresses of the country? The hon. Gentleman had certainly indulged in imputations against Ministers which he had no facts to justify.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he observed in this estimate an item of 2,680 l
 Mr. Warburton  said, that when the clause was passed to which the Solicitor General had alluded, they had entered their protest against this year of grace for the owners of tithes. The consequence of such a clause was obvious. It was an encouragement to the parties to bring actions. He believed, that 5,000 or 6,000 actions were now entered for trial in tithe cases. The whole country was in a flame. Under such circumstances, it was not possible that any Bill for the commutation of tithes could be entered upon with that good temper which all must feel to be most desirable, but which could not exist while discord was running through the land. He should therefore say, that whenever a Bill for commutation was introduced, it should proceed, as the hon. and learned Solicitor General had said, upon the  uti possidetis
 Mr. Briscoe  was surprised at the extravagance of this estimate. Indeed, he had been surprised at it year after year, and he would move for some reduction in it now in order to take the sense of the House upon the subject. He saw amongst other items that the public were charged with the expense of maintaining the various kitchen-gardens attached to the royal palaces. He begged to move, as an Amend-
 614 l
 Mr. Briscoe  was willing to withdraw his Amendment on the understanding that Government would agree to the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Hardy  was of opinion, that the 8th section of the Act applied only to those who accepted office for the first time. He could not doubt that the hon. and learned Gentleman was a commissioner from the moment that a fiat was issued with his name included in it, as every fiat was a Commission of Bankrupt under the Great Seal. But he was also clear, that the circumstance of his having held the office did not disqualify the hon. Member from
 606
 Mr. Herries  thought, that after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, the proper course would be for the hon. Baronet not to press his Motion, but that a Committee should be appointed to inquire, particularly as it was for the first time the question was mooted, whether those acting as Commissioners in the country were like London Commissioners, and as such, came under the meaning of the Act. At any rate it was clear, that country Commissioners were appointed by the Act, as was proved by the return made to that House by the proper officer of the Commissioners appointed under it. At the head of the names in that Return stood that of George Pryme, Esq. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, undoubtedly, virtually accepted of the office, and he had declined to act merely because he was going to pursue other avocations at St. Ives. He would beg to ask, whether it were possible to say, that a gentleman having been written to, to ask if he would take a certain office if appointed, and having answered that he would, and being afterwards appointed to the office, and thereby put in a situation to act under the appointment,
 604
 Mr. Hume  held in his hand three returns relating to stamp prosecutions. These would show, that within three years there had been above 400 persons imprisoned for offences against the Stamp-laws. The first of these Returns showed, that in 1831, there had been seventy-seven persons prosecuted for these offences; that, up to February, 1832, there had been 3 l 607
 Mr. Hume  was happy to observe that Government had endeavoured to simplify the statement of the year's estimates. With respect to the particular vote, he would recommend its being referred to a Select Committee next Session, with a view of ascertaining whether it could not be still further reduced. He particularly alluded to the Commissariat Departments in Canada and New South Wales, which he thought far too large.
 Mr. Hume  said, that this vote raised the question as to how many palaces the country ought to build, or ought to keep in repair. It appeared to him, that there were many items in this estimate which might be dispensed with—he alluded especially to those charged for the keeping up palaces not necessary for the accommodation of the Sovereign and his family. He would refer, in the first instance, to Kew Palace. He did not see the necessity there was for keeping that up as a royal palace. He was aware that a portion of it was occupied by members of the royal family; but they had princely incomes, and princely residences elsewhere; and there was no necessity for keeping up that palace at the public expense for their accommodation. Then there was
 612 l l
 Mr. Hume  thought, that it was the duty of an honest member of Parliament, if he saw squalid misery existing among the poor, and if he reflected that the poor supplied the great part of the expenditure of the State, out of the earnings of their industry, to state it in a fair and candid manner, free from extenuation on the one hand, and from exaggeration on the other. He had stated, on several previous occasions, his objections to this grant for the repair of Windsor Castle. "I stated," said Mr. Hume, "those objections as strong as man could state them, I stated them, as strong as I could state them." The hon. member for Oldham had not said a single word about fiscal prosecutions; he had merely spoken of fiscal exactions. He (Mr. Hume) believed that, instead of 10,000 men having been committed to gaol by fiscal exactions, there had been 50,000. He believed that at this present moment there were not so many as 10,000 persons in prison for debts of any description. About three years ago, in all the gaols of England, Scotland, and Ireland, the number of persons confined amounted to 5,300. He believed that the number of persons now confined in the metropolitan prisons was less by 600 or 700 than it had been for many years past. He did not, however, the less deprecate, on that account, any complaint which
 623 l l
 Mr. Hume  thought, that other architects ought to be allowed to send in plans.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his conviction that there was no class more deserving of commiseration than that to which the petitioners belonged. The Merchant Seamen came home frequently destitute, and actually wanting the sixpences which were taken from these poor wretched men to support Greenwich Hospital. The hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham) had hitherto opposed any alteration of the system, but he hoped that the hon. Baronet would see a new light on the subject next Session.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  moved, as an amendment; to leave out all the words after the word, "that" in the original Motion, for the purpose of inserting words to the effect "that in all questions of the expenditure of additional payments out of the Exchequer, especial regard should be paid to the interests of those who suffer the greatest pressure of the public burthens."
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  considered the Bill to be a measure which was inconsistent with sound financial principles. The object of the Bill was, to purchase the repeal of taxes, amounting to 35,000 l l
 Mr. Estcourt  wished the noble Lord to explain how Government could be bound to follow Mr. Wilkins's plan, when he himself had abandoned it.? He hoped competition would be allowed.
 Mr. Spring Rice : I wonder at the indiscretion, for I will not call it by a harsher term, of which the hon. member for Oldham has been guilty. Let the public decide on the truth of the hon. Member's assertions by this one circumstance; he alleges as a fact, that 10,000 men are now confined in the different gaols of this kingdom in consequence of revenue prosecutions. Why does he say that. On what authority does he avouch it? Lot him call for all the returns which chooses, and prove it if he can. To produce some effect of his own, which I will not venture to describe, the hon. Member ventures to assert that 10,000 men are imprisoned on revenue charges. I call upon him to prove that assertion now, or to be convicted here in the presence of the assembled Commons of England, and of the
 621
 Mr. Spring Rice  stated, that a sum of 2,189,772 l l. 611 l l l l l. l l s d
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that it was very easy to make assertions, but not altogether so easy to prove them. He would take the hon. member for Oldham at his word; he should have the accounts to which he referred, and he should be placed in a situation to prove, if those accounts would let him prove, the misconduct of which he complained so vehemently. He begged to remind the Committee, that Government was not responsible for the management of the Museum; but, without knowing the trustees personally, he would say, from his general knowledge of their private characters, that he was quite sure that they would not sanction such proceedings as those which the hon. member for Oldham had announced. The hon. Member should have every account and disbursement for which he had asked. He (Mr. Rice) was not himself a
trustee of the Museum, but, he felt that he was only performing his duty to the trustees of that institution when he gave the hon. Member that promise on their behalf. The hon. member for Oldham had availed himself of that opportunity to laud himself as the only person who dared to speak unpalatable truths in that House. That the statement which the hon. Member had made that evening was unpalatable he freely admitted; but whether it was the truth, he for one, knew not. The hon. Member said, that the poorer classes took no interest whatever in the Museum. Let the hon. Member go to the Museum on any public day, and he would find it crowded, especially on Mondays and Tuesdays, with members of the poorer lasses, who went there to see the works of art and science, which they had read of in the works of information which they had read on the previous Saturday. He would see that the pleasure derivable from the  chefs d'æuvres
 Mr. Spring Rice  would briefly state a few facts to the House, which would prove, that this estimate had been framed upon the most economical principles. In the year 1831, when the first estimate on this subject was brought forward by the present Government, the amount of the vote was 66,675 l l l l l l. l. l. l 615
 Mr. Blamire  wished to call the attention of the hon. and learned Gentleman to statements he had received respecting prosecutions for tithes, instituted in consequence
 609
 Mr. Willǐam Brougham  said, that other plans had been submitted to Government, which he thought superior to that of Mr. Wilkins. He would oppose the grant now proposed, if an assurance were not given that it should not be appropriated to the completion of Mr. Wilkins's plan.
 Mr. William Brougham  asked whether, if Government should resolve upon the erection of a new gallery, Mr. Wilkins's plan would be followed?
 Mr. Cobbett  was sorry to see the hon. Secretary treat this subject with so much passion. He asserted that he had not drawn any invidious contrast—or, indeed, any contrast at all—between the condition of the rich and that of the poor. He had complained of the number of persons who were now suffering under the exactions of the taxation of the country. He repeated that he had made no contrast between the rich and the poor. Why should he have made such a contrast, when he knew that there was no set of men poorer than those who were styled gentlemen of landed estate? The hon. Secretary had acted that evening as he bad acted on a
 622
 Mr. Cobbett  asked Ministers this question:—"Were there less than 10,000 men at this moment in gaol for fiscal exactions, and were there less than 10,000 families suffering in consequence of their imprisonment?." If the answer of Ministers were, as it ought to be, in the affirmative, then he would ask, was this the time for expending more money in altering and repairing Windsor Castle? For his own part, he believed that Windsor Castle was now much worse off than it was before its recent changes. To call this a Reformed Parliament, and in a Reformed Parliament to vote away money for a purpose like this was enough to make every Member ashamed to see himself if he only went out of the House by daylight. If we go on at this rate, (said the hon. Member) the people will have a right to oppose us by every peaceable and constitutional means in their power; and if they shall be unable to bring us back to reason by peaceable means, they will obtain at length the right of resorting to absolute resistance.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he would enter into a compromise with Ministers; he would support a vote of 50,000 l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the noble Lord seemed to think that the prosecutions under which these men were imprisoned, were not instituted under one of the Six Acts. He thought the noble Lord was mistaken on that point. The great evil of the Six Acts was that they restrained the people from publishing cheap publications periodically. Before the time of passing those Acts, they might have done so, but now they could not publish any paper of a certain size more than once a month, and not with any sort of news, if the price was less than sixpence. The Act was intended against him, but he had raised the price of his paper, and so far as he was concerned, the Government might as well repeal the Act at once. It could be repealed in two hours. If the hon. Secretary opposite would draw up a Bill of a few lines only, it might at once be introduced into the House and passed through the Legislature in the present Session. It was said, that these were prosecutions of common informers, and that the noble Lord was not answerable for them. But he was answerable, for the prosecutions were in consequence of the law which the Government kept in force, and, therefore, these prosecutions were the work of the Government. Besides, who were these common informers? He was informed that policemen generally brought men before the Magistrates, and that persons from the Stamp-office came forward to become prosecutors. Now, to say nothing of the policemen being under the Orders of the Government, if the Government ordered the Stamp-office to desist from these prosecutions they would do so. The Attorney and Solicitor General had tried, in former times, to put down cheap publications, but now the attempt was made by these Stamp prosecutions, and they were the more efficient. These Stamp officers were more tyrannical and malicious than ever the Attorney or Solicitor General had been.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, there was a precedent, on the principle of which he thought the House might now act. That precedent occurred in 1800. There were then 602 actions brought against the clergy for non-residence. At first the Legislature did not know what to do; but afterwards, though it was a direct violation of the law, they passed an Act to stay the proceedings. As that had been done in favour of the clergy, there could be no objection now to do it in favour of the people, especially when they would be at the same time doing a real service to the Church.
 Mr. Cobbett  would not vote for the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Surrey, as he would rather have one single word of promise from the noble Lord opposite—one single intimation from him that he would do all he could to reduce this expenditure—than divide for so small a sum of money; and he would not vote for it also for this reason, that if he voted for the sum being 5,000 l l s
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he had neither criticised nor attacked the trustees of the Museum. He knew better—he knew that they knew nothing at all about its internal management. The hon. member for Cambridge was very angry with him for what he had just said—[Mr.  Ricc: No l l
 Mr. Cobbett  complained that those were taxed to pay for the British Museum to whom it was inaccessible. He was certain that the House had not a moral right to grant away the public money in this way, and he even doubted whether it had the legal right. He admitted, that this system had a tendency to beautify and aggrandize this town; but he had observed that wherever such a system had been practised in past times, it had been the sure precursor of national downfall and ruin. How was all this show got up and paid for? By extorting the money from the pockets of the poor, who were not able to visit the Museum, and by extracting it from the pockets of the country gentlemen, who seldom, if ever, came up to London. With respect to the management of the Museum, he believed it to be as bad as bad could be. The officers of it were for the most part clergymen, who employed poor curates to perform their duty at their different livings, whilst they were living in indolence and affluence here in London. He knew that he was now telling truth, and, what was more, truth that was unpalatable. The House and the country, however, would
 618
 Mr. Tooke  said, that the officers of the Museum were not in general clergymen.
 619
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that he had been at the Museum that day. There were about 500 persons there at the same time, all of the poorer classes of the society. He never saw persons enjoying themselves more than they appeared to do in contemplating the curious productions of nature and art which were there submitted to their view. It was said, that the poorer classes in the more distant parts of England were prevented from visiting the Museum. This was to a certain extent true: but when rail-roads to and from the metropolis
 620
 Sir James Graham  took a different view of the subject, because he should think himself criminal if he were to consent to Greenwich Hospital being deprived of
 596
 The Solicitor General  heard this matter with the greatest possible pain. The Act called Lord Tenterden's Act, relating to the limitations of actions, was introduced on the recommendation of the Law Commissioners, and was founded upon the part of the Report which he had himself framed. The object of that Act was to remove from our law the maxim  nullum tempus occurrit ecclesice 610 uti possidetis
 The Solicitor General  said, that if he had the slightest doubt upon the question, he would at once agree to an inquiry either by a Select Committee, as had been suggested by the hon. Member or in any other way. But there appeared to him to be no reason for the inquiry. He contended that the hon. and learned Member had never been in this office, and if he had been in office, he would not have vacated his seat. The question did not come under the Act by which the seat of any Member accepting of office under the Crown became vacated, but as to the construction of the Act 1st and 2nd William 4th. which applied exclusively to this subject, the first question was, whether or not the hon. and learned Member was a Commissioner of Bankrupts, or officer of the Bankruptcy Court.? He was decidedly of opinion that he was no commissioner. There were two sets of commissioners. The one set (which consisted of six members) held their offices under the Crown, and had a fixed salary of 1,500 l 605
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that all the arguments of the hon. member for Middlesex and the hon. member for Oldham and others, on this subject, proceeded on the supposition that we were dealing liberally with the Crown in this instance, and that, in fact, we were making the Crown our debtor. Now, he would contend that we were giving nothing to the Crown to which the Crown was not fully entitled, and that the Crown owed nothing to the people in that respect. One fact would prove the truth of what he stated. When the Crown surrendered its hereditary revenues on the accession of George 3rd, a specific bargain was made with the Crown that all those matters should be provided for out of the Civil List. A return had been lately laid before the House, showing what had been the aggregate amount of the revenues thus relinquished by the Crown since that period, and, having referred to it since the commencement of this discussion, he would just state the result. It was this—that the hereditary revenues surrendered by the Crown from 1762 to the 30th of January, 1830 amounted to 94,871,451 l l. l l 617
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that these prosecutions were under the 60th George 3rd. By far the greatest number were instituted under an Act of George 2nd, which had lately been brought into execution, and that by common informers. He believed there was only one mode of stopping these prosecutions, and that was by repealing the Stamp-duty on newspapers, and the fact of these prosecutions had been a motive with him for wishing to repeal that duty. With respect to the 60th George 3rd, to which the hon. Member had so much alluded, it was certainly opposed by him and others at the time of its introduction; but he begged the hon. Member to recollect that the parts he opposed were those that related to the giving of recognizances, and to banishment for the second offence. With respect to them, he had not altered his opinion. As to the Six Acts, he observed that some of them
 608
 Lord Althorp  observed that Govenment was doing everything in its power to reduce the expenditure, but he could give no specific promise on the subject.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member having thrown it upon him to give a pledge on this subject, he would only say that he thought what had just been stated by his hon. friend, the member for Cambridge was the best pledge that Government could possibly give of its intention
 616
 Colonel Hay  thought that this petition was most disrespectful; and as he had been one who had supported the Ministers on the question of the Malt-tax, he thought he had a right as an individual to complain of it. He did so, likewise, because he knew the country, and the sort of men the petition emanated from. No wonder that such petitions should be sent up, when it was recollected, that such letters as that he was about to read were sent down to the men drawing them up. The hon. and gallant Member then read the following letter:—
 Bryanstone-square, Aug 3. Sir,—I shall have much pleasure in presenting the petition intrusted to my charge, and I shall also have pleasure in supporting its prayer. But the petitioners may depend on it, that this Parliament, if I judge by their proceedings heretofore, will do little to meet the just expectations of the people. 636 There appears, on the part of the Ministers, a determination to do as little as they can in the way of reform; and the Whigs and Tories seem, with that view, to act a very appropriate part. The one party, to keep some semblance of reforming the institutions, make some propositions, as in the Bill for Church Reform—and the Tories partly terrify them, and partly resist everything that is worth having. The whole, in fact, is humbug and mockery, and will so continue until the people show that they are in earnest, and are determined to have Reform.
 Sir Edward Codrinyton  had heard the speech of the hon. member for Sheffield with great pleasure, and he did not think it deserved any reproach on account of its length. He thought, however, that if the hon. Member would consent to alter the latter part of his Motion, he would render it more acceptable to the House. As to the cruelties inflicted on seamen by the system of impressment, he would mention one case which had come under his notice. A sailor was impressed at Douglass, in the Isle of Man, some years ago, and carried on board the fleet. He was sent on foreign service, and kept there for several years, till at last he fell into a consumption, and came home merely to die. This man was the last of a large family, who had all died
 687 688
 Alderman Thompson  was rejoiced to hear the statement made by the hon. and gallant Admiral opposite, and he hoped it would meet with attention from the House. He had long felt that it was a gross abuse of power to press seamen into the service against their will. Why should the system of impressment be necessary in the navy more than in the army? Why should not bounties be given to individuals volunteering into the navy? He was aware, that bounties would entail a considerable expense on the country, but that was preferable
 689
 Colonel Torrens  moved as an Amendment, "That it is the opinion of this House, that it is just and expedient to regulate and mitigate the system of forcibly impressing seamen into his Majesty's service, in every way not inconsistent with the powers of the Crown in cases of emergency, to man the Royal navy."
 Colonel Torrens  withdrew his Amendment, and
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He could have wished it had been made at an earlier period. It was particularly important and desirable to obtain all the information possible upon the subject, now that Bank of England notes were to be made a legal tender, more especially as the Bank of England, unlike other banks, did not make good its forgeries.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that it appeared, to him that what had been stated by the hon. member for Middlesex formed very good grounds why this Motion should not be agreed to. The information which the hon. Member sought for would do no good, would effect no practical object, and would only promote the wicked ends of those who had been for years practising forgeries on the Bank of England.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, perhaps, before the bank-note was made a legal tender, it would be found necessary to appoint a Secret Committee to see if a note less liable to imitation could be produced. The House was aware, that, in a former instance, a Committee was appointed for that purpose, of which Sir W. Congreve, Mr. Davies Gilbert, and Dr. Wollaston, were members. They, after much labour and inquiry, produced what they thought an inimitable note, and in two days only the Bank engraver produced an imitation of it that would be sufficient to deceive the public. It was, in fact, much easier to produce an imitation that would deceive, of the intricately worked notes of the private banks, than of the present apparently very plain note of the Bank of England. The public might be assured, that the present Bank-note was the most difficult of imitation that the Bank could produce; for after expending 200,000 l. 705
 Lord Althorp  begged leave to remind the House of the circumstances which had led to the present Motion, it should be remembered, that Lord Tenterden introduced a Bill into the House of Lords for limiting the modus of tithes at sixty years; that is, that when tithes were possessed for sixty years in any district without ejectment, that that modus should constitute a right by prescription. That Bill came down from the Lords to the Commons. It contained a clause which gave the clergy three years of grace, within which they might set aside any moduses which were wrong That clause was considered by the House as highly objectionable for reasons then stated, and which experience had unfortunately shown to be too valid; and accordingly an Amendment for striking it out of the Bill was carried; the Bill, thus amended, was sent back to the Lords, who, however, after some discussion, carried an Amendment upon the Commons' Amendment, to the effect of shortening the period of grace within which the clergy might set aside a modus to one year. It was under this provision that the prosecutions against which the hon. Member's Bill was directed were undertaken. He regretted, that they were so. He must say he was, when he considered the state of public feeling throughout the country in reference to the expenses of the Church Establishment, surprised that any members of that establishment could be induced to institute a series of actions which must, in his (Lord Althorp's) opinion, tend to affect the very existence of the establishment itself. As an honest friend of the Church, he viewed these prosecutions with the greatest possible regret. But the question was, how they should best meet the difficulties of the case. It was to be considered, that an Act of Parliament certainly authorised these prosecutions, and that many of them might be founded on just grounds, that is on a good modus right; so that he should feel great unwillingness to agree to an ex post facto law for undoing what had
 711
 Captain Elliot  said, that the cases brought forward by the gallant Admiral were subjects more appropriate for complaint to the Admiralty than to that House. He admitted, that the system of impressment was one which ought to be done away with as far as it safely could; that it ought not to be had recourse to but in cases of great emergency; and that the enforcement of it should, as long as possible, be avoided. He did not see what the faults which the hon. and gallant Admiral found with the Admiralty had to do with the question of impressment. The hon. member for Sheffield had alluded to the extent to which desertion was carried on at Gibraltar during the war. He (Captain Elliot) admitted, that there was desertion to a considerable extent, but he had found, in the course of his experience, that the desertion was less frequent among the impressed men than among the volunteers. The volunteers had been always found ready to desert, because it gave them an opportunity of getting the bounty over again. But desertion was not confined to
 690 691
 Lord John Russell  did not doubt the power of the House to take away these sinecure; but the question to consider was, not whether it was in the power, but
 709
 Mr. Robinson  rose to submit a Motion to the House on the subject of his motion respecting the Prussian tariff. Had Prussia confined herself to her own limits, however onerous her regulations might be to British commerce, he should not have troubled the House on the subject; but the course which the King of Prussia was pursuing, if not unprecedented, was unusual, and he thought it was the duty of this Government to take some notice of it. The Prussian government had imposed onerous duties on British goods, though we had lowered our duties; but, besides this, that government was trying to embrace within its commercial code a large part of Germany, which, if it succeeded in doing, would prove very detrimental to British interests. The Prussian government was trying to extend its custom-house regulations and duties to the Grand Duchy of Hesse, the Electorate of Hesse Anhalt, to Saxony, Bavaria, and Wurtemberg, and in some degree to the Grand Duchy of Mecklen-burgh. The effect of this would be to exclude, or to limit, the sale of British manufactures throughout a large part of the German empire. If Prussia chose to adopt this system in her own territories, she was at liberty to do so, but she was endeavouring to ingraft it on states which were, or ought to be, independent of her; and we ought to say to her, "You have no right to enter into adverse treaties with other states, calculated materially to hurt the commerce of this country." He knew that British commerce was exposed to great rivalry from that of foreign states, and he hoped that that rivalry would be met on the part of the British Government by wise and politic measures. He was not the advocate of commercial restrictions or of commercial hostility towards Prussia, on the contrary, he wished to see all nations adopt a system of liberal commerce, as far as was consistent with their respective interests: and if they did not adopt such a system, it would not be because we had not set them the example. He understood that it was the intention of the Government to make some alteration in the duties imposed on timber imported from the Baltic. Now, he conjured the
 696 697 698 699
 Mr. Robinson  would only detain the House for a few minutes. There was hardly any way in which this question could be brought under the consideration of the House to which he would object, such was his abhorrence of the system; but he begged the House to consider the situation in which they would be placed if the Resolution were adopted. The Resolution declared that the system was cruel, inefficient, and so on. If this were affirmed by the House, the system must necessarily be discontinued, and that without any inquiry. He would, therefore, oppose the Motion, but merely on the point of form; but he could not affirm such a Resolution as this was, looking as he did to the pass to which it might bring them.
 Mr. George Young  seconded the Motion. He did not intend by any remarks of his own, to weaken the arguments of the powerful speech he had just heard, further than to say, that the Motion met with his most cordial concurrence. He earnestly hoped, that the subject would engage the attention of his Majesty's Government, now that the country was in a state of the most profound peace. He was of opinion, that the matter ought to be no longer delayed, and that the object of the Motion might be effected without any compromise of the national power.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the power to impress should certainly not be resorted to except in extreme cases. But he considered it inconvenient that abstract Resolutions of this kind should be brought forward. The abuse of the system in former times was properly objected to; but there was little danger of any such abuse in future. It was neither safe nor right to deprive the King of the power of impressing under the responsibility of his Ministers in cases of emergency, such as an unexpected war. He hoped that the House would not abolish the system, but that they would watch strictly over the uses made of the power. He therefore should oppose the Resolution in its present shape.
 Mr. Buckingham  moved an amended Resolution—"That it is the duty of this House to avail itself of the present period of profound peace, to institute an inquiry whether some means may not be devised of manning his Majesty's ships in time of war, without having recourse to the practice of forcible impressment."
 Mr. Buckingham  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice:—"That the forcible Impressment of seamen for his Majesty's Navy is unjust, cruel, inefficient, and unnecessary: and that it is the duty of this House to avail itself of the present period of profound peace, to provide some means of manning the ships of his Majesty in time of war, without a violation of the liberties of any class of his Majesty's subjects." He asked the indulgence of the House while he stated to them, as briefly as the nature of so important a subject would admit, the reasons which induced him to entertain the views embodied in the Resolution be had just read, and which he should submit to the sense of the House. He conceived that, among all the various subjects that had been brought before the Legislature during the first Session of the first Reformed Parliament of Great Britain, there was not one that had a juster claim upon their early and serious attention, than the Impressment of British seamen—this blot upon the escutcheon of our country's glory, which every true patriot must be anxious to see speedily wiped away. Wherever the name of England was known, it was invariably associated with maritime greatness and naval superiority to every other nation on the globe. It was, therefore, of the utmost national importance that,
 637 638 639 640 641 642 643 644 Bell's Weekly Messenger 645 646 The Times Herald Globe 647 648 649 650 651 652 653 654 l. l. l. l. l. s. s. l. l. 655 l. 656 s. d. l. The nations not so blest as thee Shall in their turns to tyrants fall, Whilst thou shall flourish great and free, The dread and envy of them all Britain's best bulwarks are her wooden walls. 657 Rule Britannia, rule the subject waves, Thy free-born seamen never shall be slaves. 658 l. l. l. l. 659 l. l. 660 661 662 663 664 l. 665 l. l. 666 l. 667 s. l. l. s. l. s. s. l. s. s. s. s. s. d s. d. l s. 668 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. 669 670 671 672 673 674 675 676
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had heard with great satisfaction many parts of the right hon. Baronet's speech, but he was at a loss to know how, after admitting the force of many of his hon. friend's objections, he had come to the conclusion of so decidedly opposing the Motion. The right hon. Baronet seemed to found his chief argument in favour of impressment on the circumstance, that it was established by old custom. But was that a reason, that if it was bad it should not be changed? The old custom of electing Members of Parliament was bad, but that was thought no reason why it should not be altered.
 685 686
 Mr. Hume  said, that, pursuant to notice, he would now call the attention of the House to the warrant of appointment of Privy Seal in Scotland, and to the offices of Lord Clerk Register of Scotland and Keeper of the Signet. The office of Privy Seal was held by Lord Melville, that of Keeper of the Signet by the right hon. W. Dundas. Circumstances which had arisen since he had first given notice of this Motion had induced him to alter it, and he now intended to move,"That, in accordance with the Resolutions of this House, an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, that he will be pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into every existing sinecure office, or office executed by deputy, wholly or in part, by whatever tenure held, with the view of abolishing the salaries and emoluments of all those where public services have not been performed to deserve the same, and warrant their continuance or modification." This Motion was, as it was expressed, in accordance with Resolutions which had been lately carried by the House on the subject of sinecures. Besides, as the Government had made reductions with regard to some of them, it had as much right and equal power to deal in the same way with the whole of them. There were the filacers appointed in the King's Bench, whose emoluments should at least be greatly reduced, as the authority under which they were appointed was extremely doubtful. There were also various sinecure appointments in the Court of Exchequer, in the Court of Admiralty, and in the office of the Secretary for the Foreign Department, which should be reduced. There was the office of Clerk of Parliaments, held by Sir G. Rose, who had received in the course of the last five years no less a sum than upwards of 28,000 l. 706 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  withdrew his Motion, and Lord Althorp's Amendment was agreed to.
 Mr. Hume  avowed writing that letter: he had no copy of it, but he believed that every word of it was his writing. It seemed to him to be of his inditing. He had given an opinion which he still entertained, and he could amplify upon it.
 Mr. Hume  was likewise of opinion that it was a mark of weakness for the House to change its opinion on the Malt-tax. Certainly, if he had had the dictation of the petition, he should not have put those words into it, but should have expressed the same meaning in other words less offensive.
 Mr. Hume  was not sure that he correctly understood the Speaker. He did not think that these expressions applied to this Parliament. The petitioners spoke historically of past Parliaments. If he had thought there was anything that applied to this House, and was improperly worded, he would not have brought up the petition; but, looking at its statements as historically given, he had thought there was nothing objectionable in them. If, however, it was disorderly, he should only say, that he was sorry for having presented it, and should withdraw it.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition, signed by 1,400 persons, most of whom were members of the Political Union at Aberdeen. The petitioners, after stating the abuses that existed under the old system, and in unreformed Parliaments, went on to express their opinion that the Reformed Parliament had not deserved the confidence of the people, by its tergiversation on the subject of the Malt-tax, and praying, therefore, that the House would take
 634
 Mr. Cobbett  must say, that he differed from the noble Lord. He saw nothing offensive in the phrase. Change was weakness, and weakness imbecility.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that on the present occasion he should neither vote for the original Motion nor the Amendment; because he thought it was the duty of the House to abolish all sinecures, without calling on the King for his assistance. The House had full power to do this, for it had often resumed grants made by the King out of his hereditary estates, and it could not be denied, then, that it had the power to resume grants of money extracted from the pockets of the people. But in this case the House was not called upon to take any thing away from individuals, but only to cease to give. If the Members of this House were not resolved to abolish sinecures, let them declare that. Let them add that declaration to the rescinding of the Malt-tax, and then their character would be complete. No less than 1,000 persons were lying in gaol for offences against the Excise and Customs' laws; and recently a man had been convicted in the penalty of 100 l. l.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that as he could not give his sanction to any expression which might seem to take away his Majesty's prerogative, if the hon. member for Sheffield, had persevered in his original Motion
 694
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that impressing of seamen from on board American ships by British officers was the cause of the American war, and that war had added 70,000,000 l.
 The Speaker  did not see how the hon. Member could mistake the matter. The petition was not a historical petition, but contained a prayer against existing grievances, and stated, by way of preface, what was the character of the House of Commons,—that they had not done their duty; and inferred from thence, that the petitioners ought not to be satisfied with the present House of Commons.
 The Speaker  thought it his duty to call the attention of the House to another part of the petition, which had not yet been the subject of observation. In his opinion, the Chair would be very lax in the performance of its duty if it did not direct the attention of the House to passages like this:—"Reviewing the retrograde movements of all the machinery of the State during the past half century, and the consequent corruption in the most valuable of our institutions, during which period the seats of your honourable House, with one or two exceptions, have ceased to be occupied by persons identified in feeling or interest with the people, and whose voices have never been heard but in responding to the propositions of the Treasury Bench, and who, instead of representing the interests of the people, have represented only their own coffers." The petitioners, after drawing this, which they conceived to be a picture of that House, went on to declare that it had been, for the reasons they had stated, the cause of wars and taxes. This was an imputation of motive which, from one hon. Member
 635
 Sir James Graham  did not expect so lengthened a speech from the hon. Gentleman, for if he recollected aright, in the first speech he had ever heard from the hon. Member, he had expressed his aversion to long speeches in that House, and had even gone so far as to assert that no person should attempt to detain the House longer than a quarter of an hour in replying to another hon. Member's arguments, and not longer, certainly, than half an hour in opening the subject of discussion. He was sorry, in this instance, to observe that the hon. Member had been so far debauched by keeping bad company, as no doubt the hon. Member then considered it, as to have, in the speech just delivered, occupied just four times as much of their time as he had laid down for other speakers by his rule. He would, in endeavouring to follow the arguments of the hon. Member, attempt to keep his precept in view, and avoid his practice. He confessed he was not a little surprised at finding the hon. Member, on the evening of the 15th of August, pressing on the attention of the House, already overwhelmed with business of the most indispensable urgency and importance, a Motion like the present, which could not possibly end in any useful or practical results, were all his principles admitted, and the remedies suggested approved. He was the more surprised at it, when it was recollected they were neither in the sixth Session of a septennial Parliament, when it might have been venial in Members to attempt to resuscitate their fading, if not almost extinct,
 677 678 679 680 681 682 l. s. 683 684 consuetudoregni
 Lord Althorp  should like to ask the hon. Member whether, if he were accused of imbecility and tergiversation, he should not think himself insulted?
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had never before originated an objection to a petition so as to prevent its reception by that House, and he did so on the present occasion most unwillingly; but, when a petition contained words so strong as were to be found in this petition, as for instance—"That the House had shown itself imbecile by its tergiversation on the subject of the Malt-tax,"—it was impossible to let the matter pass without some observation. That certainly was not a Parliamentary phrase; but it was intelligible enough, and he thought it an insult to that House.
 Lord Althorp  had not the smallest hesitation in declaring, that if it were possible for this country, as a maritime State, to get rid entirely of the system of impressment, he should be as desirous as any one to get rid of it. But it appeared to him to be a necessary evil, which it was not possible entirely to avoid. His right hon. friend near him had stated circumstances, such as the breaking out of a sudden war, and the necessity of an immediate armament, which would render a system of voluntary enrolment of seamen, entirely insufficient for the manning of his Majesty's ships of war, in time to prevent the entire destruction of our commerce. Before we could
 692 693
 Lord Althorp  had, on several former occasions, stated his opinion, and he had heard no reason now to induce him to alter it, that it would not be desirable for
 707 708
 Viscount Palmerston  did not rise to object to the production of the paper for which the hon. member for Worcester had moved, but to make some observations on
 700 701 702 703
 Mr. Pryme  supported the grant, because the Universities had no funds applicable to this purpose.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was sorry to be obliged to call the attention of the House to the consolidation of the Boards of Stamps and Boards of Taxes. He did not object to their consolidation, nor to any saving which could be effected by such an arrangement; but he was confident, from the papers laid before the House, that the saving might have been much more extensive than it had been. He was of opinion, that, in all consolidations of departments, there should be one invariable rule, viz., that if the persons in those departments were fit for their public, duties, fresh and inexperienced persons should not be introduced. But, in the present instance, setting aside the claims of the old officers, Government had appointed an individual (Mr. John Wood) who was never before in the public service. There were the Chairmen of the
 716 vice versa l
 Lord Althorp  said, that the savings effected were not confined to the consolidation of the chief Boards, but were much larger, by the consolidation of the collection of taxes, under the same Board. He begged to say, that the replies to which the noble Lord had referred, as being withheld, were entirely confidential communications. He had recommended Lord Grey to select
 Mr. Wood , not because he was a supporter of Ministers, for no man could say that gentleman's conduct had been at all subservient to their purposes,—but he had recommended his selection on account of his consistency of conduct, general ability, and because, although not following his Majesty's Government, he possessed their most entire confidence. In consolidating the Boards, the Government had not only to calculate the amount of saving which might be made directly in salaries, but also whether the persons to be appointed were most likely to effect the general savings in the most efficient manner. It had been proposed to Mr. Mitford, that he should remain in the situation with the same salary as he had received before; but it was necessary that the person at the head of the Board should be in the habits of confidential communication with the Government. He concurred in the encomiums passed by the noble Lord on Mr. Mitford; but he should do very wrong if he were not also to award the same meed of praise to Mr. Thornton, who had also retired. No man was more ready than that gentleman in promoting the wishes of the Government. It was not for the purpose of acquiring any patronage Mr. Wood had been appointed; the Government merely wished to have, at the head of the consolidated department, a gentleman with whom they could co-operate, and who was well known for his independence and ability. The saving by the change would be greater in the country than within the immediate department in town.
 Mr. Hume  said, the question was, whether the consolidation was proper,—and whether the Government were justified in making a reduction of expenditure, from 11,500 l l 718
 Mr. Harvey  expressed his approbation of the course pursued by his Majesty's Ministers with reference to Mr. Mitford. In his opinion, however, the most import ant subject for the House to consider was, the great allowance that had been made to a retired public servant, when that servant was perfectly able to discharge the duties of his office. If Mr. Mitford was not approved of, surely he might have filled a subordinate office. If a horse was not fit to run at Newmarket, his owner might start him for an inferior plate; and, if he was unsuccessful, he would then do for a London cab. But it would be absurd to say, because he could not start for the Derby, that he was only fit for superannuation. He thought great blame rested with the Government in not appointing individuals who already stood in the pension or superannuated list, where such a course might be pursued without detriment to the public service. He was acquainted with a gentleman who had a retired allowance of 400 l l l
 Mr. Warburton  said, if Ministers had expelled the heads of establishments for the purpose of introducing their own particular friends, they certainly deserved the most signal censure of that House; but as, in the present instance, they had only superannuated an individual who was politically opposed to them, and had placed in his situation a person of talent and respectability, who would cordially co-operate with them in effecting that extensive reform and reduction of the public burthens which had been so loudly called for, he thought they ought to receive the approbation of all parties; and be contended it was quite impossible they could do anything else, in justice to themselves, than appoint an individual for that purpose in whom they had the most implicit confidence.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the expense would not be greater than at present, as the reserved lands for the clergy would in the" course of time be sufficient for their maintenance. The grant to the Catholic Bishop had been long sanctioned by Parliament, and was given to that prelate in lieu of his former revenue. He was glad the hon. Member had mentioned the name of the Protestant Bishop of Quebec, as it gave him an opportunity of stating a circumstance as rare as it was honourable to that excellent prelate. He believed, that nearly the whole of his income was devoted to the benefit of those over whom he presided. He would also state, that such had been the increase of the number of Protestants in Canada, in consequence of emigration thither, that the Bishop of Quebec had made an application to Government to have a suffragan Bishop appointed for Upper Canada, but not at any expense to this country; for in the most disinterested manner he offered to give up 1,000 l l l
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that 800 l l l
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  said, that Mr. Brownrigg kept his carriage, and lived in good style, and had been agent for some years for the Marquess of Downshire.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that if the system of granting superannuations were abolished altogether, persons holding offices would then save as much out of their salaries as would make a provision for their old age, but that as long as the system of granting them in any cases was followed, claims would continue to be made, which, in some cases, it might be difficult to withstand. He hoped, that superannuations would be done away with altogether.
 Mr. George F. Young  could not hear the name of Lancaster mentioned without expressing a regret, that a person who had done so much for his fellow-men should be allowed to pine in exile and in poverty. He hoped that something might be done in his behalf.
 Mr. George F. Young  rose to ask why so high a salary as 1,500 l 722
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the Roman Catholic parochial clergy in Canada were well provided for. They were comfortably situated, and their incomes arose out of tithes. It was different with the Bishops; if they should be deprived of their incomes they would be reduced to almost a state of poverty. On principle, however, he agreed, that the sooner the supporting of those ecclesiastical establishments was got rid of, the better it would be, not only for this country but for those establishments themselves. He did wish, that faith should not be broken with those ecclesiastics who had been induced to migrate on the promise of being provided for by this country. He trusted the hon. member for Middlesex would not persist in depriving of his
 730
 Mr. Warburton  said, he had no objection to the grant, if there were no University surplus funds that were available to this object.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the contingent expenses connected with this grant amounted to 6,500 l
 Mr. Hume  was glad to observe the immense saving that had taken place in this department, and he was happy to have the opportunity of giving the Government the credit of it. The thanks of the country were due to the Government for what they had done, and if some recommendations which had been given to the Government were acted on, a much greater saving might yet take place. Acts of Parliament which had before cost 4 d d l
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope, that the whole amount of the expenses of the
 729
 Mr. Hume  would oppose the Motion, but not on the ground assumed by the hon. Baronet. He opposed it because bethought the plan of giving assistance to schools bad, and there would be no end to the demands for assistance from all parts of the country.
 731
 Mr. Hume  was ready to admit any just claim of humanity, especially when attended with length of service to the public; but he had been informed, that Mr. Brownrigg was a man of independent fortune.
 Mr. Hume  asked why a superannuation allowance had been given to a Mr. Brownrigg?
 Mr. Hume  remarked it was strange, that though the services of this Gentleman had been performed before 1800, he had not received his pension till 1812.
 Mr. Hume  would suggest to his hon. friend to take a different course, and to object to the vote altogether. He did not see why the country should be called upon to pay these Commissioners 800 l
 Mr. Hume , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the repeal of the Act 60 George 3rd, cap, 10 one of the Six Acts, said, that he would not detain the House at that late hour by bringing forward any arguments in favour of the measure. He would refer hon. Members to the speeches of the members of the Government against the Six Acts, for better arguments than he could bring. He hoped, that late as the period of the Session was, the noble Lord would not object to his bringing in this Bill. He would therefore simply move, that leave be given to bring in a Bill for the repeal of the Act 60th George 3rd.
 Mr. Hume , after what had fallen from the noble Lord, would not press his Motion.
 Mr. Potter  could mention to the hon. member for Cambridge a method of increasing the funds of the University, namely, to admit the sons of dissenters to participate in the honours of science and literature. At present, as was well known, a dissenter could not send his son to either of the Universi-
 720
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the appointment of these Commissioners of charities was by Act of Parliament, and therefore the Government could not be blamed for continuing them. They had done what they could to lessen the expense over which the Treasury had control, by diminishing the salaries from 1,000 l l 725
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that with regard to Mr. Brownrigg, he had been Secretary of the Inland Navigation Board. The Government had considered it expedient to abolish the office, and it was on that account he had been allowed 300 l 727
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the admissibility of dissenters into those Universities was the opinion—he could not say of the majority, but—of a great mass of the residents at the Universities. It was a growing opinion, and there was every probability, before Parliament met, that it would be a matter of discussion in the Universities. They ought, however, to be left to take their own steps on the subject, lest compulsion might defeat the important object in view.
 Mr. Cobbett  thought that the average service of the American ministers was four years. They were, in general, very clever men, and it was proved in their cases that high salaries were not necessary to the efficient performance of the duties of Ministers. At the same time he did not wish to see our foreign ministers underpaid. As to the case of the reverend Mr. Penrose, it appeared from the returns before the House, that he was Chargé d' Affaires only from May to October, 1800. That was only five months, though the noble Lord had said, that he had been in the public service twelve years. If the return was wrong, it was not his fault. He should like to know when he became a clergyman. It was certain he had been receiving the incomes of two livings for twenty-years, besides his pension.
 Mr. Cobbett  objected to paying the consuls by salaries instead of fees. When they were paid by salaries, the consuls were generally absent from their posts, and took no interest in the business of the merchants trading with the port at which they were stationed. It was quite different when the consuls were remunerated by fees proportioned to their activity in the discharge of their duties. He also wished to be informed whether there were any chaplains attached to the consulships which we had in the United States?
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the Estimates ought to have been brought forward in the middle of the Session.
 Mr. Ewart  objected to the grant, on the ground of the exclusiveness of the Universities. If dissenters were admitted, they would have much pleasure in agreeing to a much larger sum.
 Mr. Tooke  objected to the amount of this vote. The Commissioners had a salary of 800 l l Hume l 724 l
 Sir Edward Knatchbull : I hope, then, that we are to understand, that no circumstances
 728
 Sir James Graham  had already stated his intention of bringing forward a Bill on this subject next Session. He hoped, therefore, that the business would not be delayed any longer by a continuance of the discussion, as the Session was near its close, and much business had yet to be done.
 Sir Robert Inglis  had never heard an Estimate brought forward in that House with greater surprise than the present. It was the commencement of a new system, the extent of which they could not know. He could not but express his surprise, that such a proposition should have been brought forward without notice, at the very end of the Session, and at two o'clock in the morning. He was not prepared, however, to oppose the Motion; but he thought the noble Lord ought to delay it.
 Mr. Clay  said, that, high as the salary of the Consul-General at Hamburgh was, it was not so high as the salary of the Consul-General at Morocco, or at Algiers, or at Tunis. The two first of these consuls had 1,800 l l
 Mr. Clay  was of opinion, that the system of retired allowances and superannuations
 726
 Lord Althorp  wished it to be known, that in every appointment made by the present Government, a special agreement had been made, by which five per cent was deducted from the salary of the office towards the Superannuation Fund; and, further, that persons accepting those offices should be subject to any arrangements to be made by Parliament regarding both salaries and superannuations.
 Lord Althorp  quite agreed with the hon. Member, that the giving of assistance to schools after they were established was not proper, but the object of this grant was to give assistance towards building school-houses.
 Lord Althorp  said, that as the next Resolution which he had to move was new, he thought it necessary to explain why he considered it his duty to bring it forward. He was aware, that where money was advanced by the Government for the purpose of forwarding education, it was frequently mischievous—and that it was more desirable to leave schools to be supported by private subscription than public money. But in setting new schools on foot—especially in building school-houses—subscriptions were frequently deficient, and it was for the purpose of building new school-houses that he would now propose that a sum of 20,000 l l
 Lord Althorp  approved of their being brought forward early in the Session, but circumstances had prevented the Government from bringing them forward at an earlier period of this Session.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if Mr. Brownrigg were found on inquiry to be in the circumstances stated by the hon. member for Kildare, his allowance might still be rescinded. He wished to explain to the House the system which he had followed in regard to the abolition of offices. There were two ways in which they could be abolished. The one was by waiting till the office became vacant by the death of the person holding it; the other, by abolishing the office at once, and making an allowance to the person who held it, for the loss of his situation. The course which he had followed was the latter. He wished the public to have a part of the benefit of the abolition at once; and the course had another good effect—it prevented all danger of the office being filled up when it did happen to fall vacant.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it would be impossible, at that late period of the Session, that any Bill on this subject could pass into a law. He should therefore consider it his duty to oppose the Motion, although he, as well as the hon. Member, felt, that there were several points in those Acts which were objectionable. He thought the better course to pursue would be, to bring in a Bill to amend, and not to repeal the Acts; for although there were many parts of them which were objectionable, there were others which ought to be continued. He thought it proper, that the subject should be taken into consideration, and he would take it into consideration during the recess, in order that he might be able to bring in a Bill at the commencement of the next Session, to amend the Acts. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would not persevere in his Motion.
 Lord Morpeth  could not but thank the noble Lord for the proposition, which, in his opinion, would be highly beneficial.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that he knew no more of it than from the documents which he found in his office. Amongst those was a letter from Mr. Wyndham, in which he stated that Mr. Penrose had been his private secretary for ten years, during which he was engaged in diplomatic missions. It was not stated that he had been Charge d' Affaires more than the time stated in the return.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the salaries given to our ministers were not more than would enable them to live respectably and decently in that society in which they must move, in order to perform well the duties assigned to them. As to the American ministers, he would say, that they got
 723
 Viscount Palmerston  asserted, that the statement which had just been made by the hon. member for Oldham was not warranted by fact. The consuls might sometimes be absent from their post, owing to ill health, or to family circumstances, but generally they were at their posts, performing the duties with which Government had intrusted them. He defended the system of salaries, and contended, that it was better to throw the charge of keeping up our consular establishments upon the general revenue, than upon the private commerce of the country. He was not aware that any payment was made by Government, on account of chaplains employed in the ports of the United States.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the Consul General at Hamburgh was also a diplomatic agent to the Hanseatic towns. In point of fact, he was more of a diplomatic than of a commercial agent; and his salary was fixed more in reference to the salaries of the diplomatic servants than to those of the commercial agents of the country. The hon. Member had adverted to the salaries paid to our consuls in South America, which he had denounced as extravagant and enormous. Now, the hon. Member ought to recollect that in countries where the precious metals were produced as they were in South America, money was of less value, with regard to commodities, than it was in this country. He must take that opportunity of saying, that he had inquired into the case of the reverend Thomas Penrose, who was receiving a diplomatic pension, and who had formerly been attacked by the hon. member for Oldham. That gentleman had served his country, from the year 1791 to the year 1820, in a diplomatic capacity. He had served in Russia, in Prussia, and in Italy; and, during his residence in Italy, he had the good fortune to render a very signal service to the commercial interests of this country. By the timely intelligence which he had, some how or other, obtained of the movements of the French troops, and which he instantly communicated to our merchants at Leghorn, he enabled them to carry off property to the amount of 500,000 l
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he could have no interest in making such appointments in places where chaplains were not wanted. He always took the recommendation of the residents at the place, liable, however, to the Bishop of London's approbation of the professional character of the chaplain recommended. A chaplain was appointed at every place where a consul was resident, under the notion that
 721
 Mr. Murray  said, that if this grant were, as some thought, unnecessary, he should be the last to assist in making it; but he believed it to be just the reverse. He was pleased, too, with the way in which the noble Lord proposed to apply it, and was almost inclined to vote for it, on the sole ground that it was to be applied as well in aid of education among the Dissenters, as among those of the Church Establishment. He denied in the most distinct manner the statements made by the hon. member for Oldham, as to the increase of crime being, as that hon. Member had represented it, the consequence of the increase of education. That opinion had once been entertained in Edinburgh, but there the experiment had been fairly tried, and that opinion no longer existed. In Edinburgh lists had been kept of the workmen, and columns marked so as to give a full account of their conduct during the year, and the masters had invariably found that those men who had received the benefits of education, and employed themselves as often as they could in reading and writing, were the most sober, the most industrious, the most regular at their work, and the best conducted in their families. So that the obstinate and the prejudiced masters—he did not of course mean to say that the hon. member for Oldham was prejudiced
 736
 Colonel Evans  agreed with all that had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Murray) who had just addressed the House, but must vote against him. He thought that the House ought not to be called on to vote money for the purposes of education, while there were such means for those purposes to be found in the funds of private charities. He did not agree with the opinions of the hon. member for Oldham, but those opinions must certainly be disinterested, for if his principle were fully carried out what would become of  The Register
 Mr. Thomas Wallace  seconded the Motion. The only thing that could prevent the Bill from being a great mischief, was the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex. He had looked attentively at the Bill, and had seen nothing in it that offered the least security for the payment of the money advanced. He looked upon the advance of such a sum in the light of a public fraud. There was no one who had looked to the resistance to tithes for the last two years in Ireland, but must see, that it would be made to this measure. His opinion therefore was, that this sum of 1,000,000 l
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) seemed to think that the proposition was the act of Government, and that what had taken place in Ireland respecting the payment of tithes was also the act of the present Government. Now, such was not the case, and he (Lord John Russell) wished to take that opportunity to state the facts. No Bill of the present Government could have had the tendency stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. For the proposition made to Government was, for the Government themselves to collect the tithes from the year 1829 to 1831; and that the clergy would allow fifteen percent in return for the sums advanced; that proposition was made to the Government by
 749
 Lord John Russell  said, that the circumstance to which he alluded, took place in March last, when the Coercion Bill was under discussion.
 Lord John Russell  answered, that, in the Report of the Commissioners in 1818, there were statements of instances in which, if parishes could have been assisted in the first outlay, they would afterwards have supported schools with their own funds. That had been the case from the time of making that Report to the present period.
 Mr. Shaw  could not give his support to any advance of money for the purposes of education till he knew the precise plan on which the Government meant to proceed; for he asserted, that their system of education in Ireland had already been productive of very prejudicial effects.
 Mr. Shaw  denied that the clergy of Ireland were parties to any such proposition as that mentioned by the noble Lord, nor did they sanction any persons on their behalf to make such a proposition for them.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that after the statement the noble Lord (Althorp) had just made to the House, that he would not press the measure then before them unless he was satisfied that the million of money they were about to advance would be repaid by the means provided in the Bill, he should consider himself as acting an uncandid and unworthy part were he to sanction such an expectation. He was placed in a situation of much delicacy and embarrassment—but he was persuaded that the plain and straight course was at all times the safest as well as the best, and at every hazard he would take it. The noble Lord was greatly deceived in supposing, that in respect of the arrears any material difference was to be made in the persons liable to their payment; for although it was true that after November the gradual effect of the Act of last year would be to transfer the liability from the occupying tenant to the landlord, and of that in principle, he (Mr. Shaw) approved; still that would not for a considerable time come into operation, as existing contracts were not to be interfered with, and they extended over a large proportion of cases. The system was to be held under lease or written agreement, and, even with regard to tenancies from year to year, though the landlord was in the first instance to pay, he was afterwards to recover from the tenant; so that the persons to pay the lithe would, with
 742 743 744 745 746 747 748
 Mr. Sinclair  expressed his surprise and regret that Ministers should have deferred the Estimates until such a late period of the Session, when so few Members were in town.
 Mr. Aglionby  did not anticipate such a result, or else he should support the grant. His opinion was, that a distinct plan ought to be proposed before the House proceeded to vote any money for this purpose.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he had given the subject under discussion, as well as all others relating to Ireland, his closest attention. He had been constant in his attendance in that House, and he was bound to say, he never heard any declaration made, that it was the intention of the Government to alter the Bill. He would implore the Government to consider well the Bill they were about to pass, and not permit to be recorded in the Statute Book of that House an Act forming a most dangerous precedent for future governments that might feel a desire to attack the properties and rights of individuals. What private individual, he would ask, would lend 100 l 750
 Mr. Warburton  said, that whatever might have been the recommendations of the Committee in 1818, a different system from what they advised must be pursued now. The circumstances of the times had completely altered, and whenever the Ministers chose to take the subject in hand, and bring forward a matured plan of national education, they would have the support of that House to enable them to
 734
 Mr. Hume  also protested against such a practice, as also against the late hours
 733
 Mr. Hume  said, he should certainly object to this vote, and should take the sense of the House upon it. If it was meant that a system of national education should be established, this sum was too small, and without such a system no grant at all ought to be made. Besides, the Report of the Commissioners on Charities showed that a sum of 500,000 l
 Mr. Hume , in objecting to the Bill, begged to state, that he was as anxious as any one to see the disputes between the tithe-owners of Ireland and the people of that country put an end to. He thought, that all his predictions in 1822 upon tithes in Ireland, which had been fully realized, gave him some claim to the attention of Ministers. In 1822, he pointed out the evils of the system and the dissatisfaction of the people of Ireland, and he then foretold, that unless proper measures were taken, tithes would be lost for the purposes of the State. He then said, that was the time when the rights to such property should be considered, and he then recommended timely concession, to prevent the total refusal of the payment of tithes. He then recommended an equitable assessment on the land; but the time was now gone by to put in practice such a recommendation, since Ireland was now in a situation to preclude the possibility of adopting any such measure; and she was in that situation solely because Government and that House had not attended to his timely notice. The Government had been badly advised last year, when it passed a measure for
 738 l l 739 740
 Mr. Potter  was unwilling to vote against any scheme for promoting the education of the people, but for the reasons urged by the hon. member for Middlesex, and also on the grounds he mentioned yesterday, he begged the noble Lord to postpone the grant until a general plan of education could be devised, and until the enormous funds which had been bequeathed for the promotion of education were made available. He felt convinced, that the period was not far distant when, by the general voice of the country, those bequests must be appropriated to their original, legitimate, and most beneficial purpose.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  wished to be permitted to allude very briefly to a statement made in another place last night, and which he conceived related not only personally to himself, but to that House collectively. The noble Duke at the head of the General Post-office had accused him (Mr. Wallace) of being uncourteous, in having persisted in bringing forward a Motion in that House relative to the regulations of the General Post-office. He begged to repudiate any such charge, and declared at the same time that he had made no statement he was unable to prove from documents he then held in his hand. He believed no member of that House could say, that his conduct in this respect had been either uncourteous or unkind, as he did not bring forward his Motion until he had written to the noble Duke requiring an explanation, the answer to which might have prevented the Motion, but no answer was returned.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought that this was an experiment, and that the noble Lord had shown no ground for making it. There was no proof of any applications having been made for this money.
 Mr. Cobbett  could not consent to take from the people one single farthing in the way of taxes, directly or indirectly, in order to teach the working classes reading and writing. He was sure he should not be accused of a wish to degrade them, or to deprive them of any advantages, but he thought the word education was much mistaken. Education was the knowledge necessary for the situation of life in which a man was placed. Take two men for instance—suppose one of them to be able to plough, and the other able to plough and make hurdles and be a good shepherd. If the first man knew how to read as well
 735
 Sir Robert Inglis  could not support any plan of education that was not based on the principles of the English Established Church.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was not aware of the statement which his noble friend (the Duke of Richmond) was said to have made, and, therefore, it was impossible for him to say anything about it; but certainly, on the morning before the hon. Member brought forward his Motion, the noble Duke had told him (Lord Althorp) that he had seen the hon. Member, and had had an explanation with him, after which his noble friend certainly did not imagine the Motion would have been made.
 Lord Althorp  had as great a wish to forward a system of national education as the hon. Gentleman, and, therefore, the question between them was simply this—which was the best mode of attaining the common object? In his opinion the grant now proposed would have none of the effects attributed to it by the hon. Gentleman. There were many cases in which local efforts at education were prevented from the want of means to make a beginning. Several parishes would maintain schools if, in the first instance, they could be assisted with money to build the school-house. It was to meet such cases that this vote was applied for. None of this money would be granted for the purposes of building schools until it had been ascertained that, in the places for which it was required, there would be the means of carrying them on. The vote now proposed was in accordance with the recommendations of the Commissioners in 1818.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not intend to withdraw from the declaration he had made on a former occasion, that if there was not a reasonable prospect of repayment, the House ought not to pass the Bill; but he nevertheless trusted he should be able to show that there was a reasonable prospect of repayment. Hon. Gentlemen asked, what was the use of making the clergy of Ireland debtors of the Government, when they would not have the means of repayment? What he had to show was, that the parties to whom this advance was to be made would have the means of repayment. No doubt, if the clergy had to apply to the same parties for payment as they had last year, the same results might be expected; but, under the permanent Tithe Composition Act, which passed last Session, the clergyman would in future have to apply, not to the occupying tenantry, but to the leaseholders and owners of the land—per-sons in a situation of life well able to pay, and from whom payment could be enforced. It must be remembered that if those parties did not pay the clergyman, a receiver of their rents could be appointed till the amount legally due was paid. The hon. Gentleman opposite assumed, that the clergy of Ireland would, in future, have no income whatever. No doubt, if
 741
 Lord Morpeth  thought it a recommendation of the plan, that the money was to be advanced to assist both systems of education; one exclusively on the principles of the Established Church, and the other admitting children of all creeds and of all nations.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  wished to bring under the notice of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, a report of a speech purporting to be a part of a charge delivered to the Grand Jury of Cork by a learned Judge (Baron Pennefather), and which he must say, if it were delivered by that learned Judge, could not be considered in any other light than as an interference with the privileges of that House. The learned Judge was reported to have alluded to the Irish Grand Jury Bill, which had passed that House, and which was in progress through the other House, In the course of his remarks, he stated, that in consequence of that Bill he supposed the present occasion would be the last on which he should have to address a Grand Jury composed of Gentlemen of property, as by the Bill in progress a preference would be given to men of small property.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  rose to order. The hon. Member was bringing a charge against a Judge of the land, and he put it to the House whether such a charge should be brought on a report in a newspaper.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member might ask a question without any preliminary remarks.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  would ask the fight hon.
 759
 Mr. Littleton  apprehended, that he had no right whatever to interfere with a speech delivered by a learned Judge. All he could say of it was, that he had read the report in the papers with great surprise.
 Mr. Shaw  considered the introduction of the subject and the manner of it extremely irregular. He was acquainted with the learned Judge whose name had been mentioned, and from what he knew of him he should think it very unlikely that he would use the language attributed to him in the report; but if he had made remarks on the tendency of the Irish Grand Jury Bill, bethought he had a perfect right to do so. The independence of the Judges was admitted and defended by all who valued the due administration of the law, but he could not see that independence if a Judge were to be called to account for any remarks addressed to a Grand Jury on a question in which such Jury must be deeply interested. Of this he was sure, that the learned Judge named had not gone beyond his duty.
 The Solicitor General  said, no one would stand up more firmly for the independence of the Judges than he would, but he must say, that a Judge would expose himself to deserved censure if he went out of his way to deliver opinions as a political partisan.
 Mr. Thomas Wallace  said, that the habit of Judges going out of their way to introduce remarks on political questions, in addressing Grand Juries, had of late grown to a monstrous and mischievous extent. Instead of confining themselves to the matter immediately before them, they occupied themselves in discussing politics, with which, in their judicial capacity, they ought to have nothing to do. As to the present case, he would say, that if the speech attributed to the learned Judge in the newspaper were a correct report, the Judge had grossly abused his duty; for
 760
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was surprised to hear a learned Judge (Mr. Shaw), an hon. Member of that House, express such an opinion as that a Judge had not gone beyond his duty in referring to politics in his address to a Jury. If the learned Judge referred to had said only half of what had been attributed to him in the report, he (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson) would say, that he had done that which no Judge of this country would sanction. He hoped, that this would be a lesson to those venerable personages, and that they would not travel out of their duty by remarks which were not called for. Was it, he would ask, within the line of duty of the learned Judge in question to say to a Grand Jury, that he did not expect to have again to address gentlemen of property as Grand Jurors? Such language was most improper.
 Mr. Littleton  had not the power to take any step to ascertain whether such a speech was delivered by the learned Judge. All he knew of it was, that he had seen an account of it in the papers, which account he had read with regret.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged to make an explanation which had been furnished him by his noble friend, the Postmaster-General. The Post-office having the monopoly of carrying all letters and the Exchequer deriving a considerable amount of revenue from it, perhaps with less in convenience than from any other mode,
 757 758
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. He was ready to state to the House the grounds on which he moved that Amendment, but if he did he must go into the whole question. The principal objection was to the legal tender. He did not object to the renewal of the charter, nor to the establishment of joint-stock banks, for he knew nothing about them, but he did object to the making Bank of England paper a legal tender. He would contend that, in doing so, they usurped the King's prerogative in changing the coin of the country, and that they had no right to do so. He repeated, that he objected to the making Bank-notes, which might be issued without restriction, a legal tender. The noble Lord had stated, over and over again, that the Bank would always know, from the state of the foreign exchanges, how to regulate the amount of its issues; but if the noble Lord thought so, he had never been more deceived upon any point in his life. The present measure went to make an alteration in the value of the King's coin, and in defence of it they were told, that it was an alteration proposed for the relief of the country. The noble Lord must know, that such was the expression of all those who were in favour of this Bill, at least out of that House. It was to relieve the country, they said. How? By making money more plentiful, the taxes lighter, and the people more able to pay them. Such was the object of this measure, according to many persons in that House, and according to all its advocates out of it. The only way in which it could effect what was expected from it was by lowering the value of money, and therefore certain danger would come from the Bill, for it would be impossible to relax
 765 l 766
 Mr. Clay  had intended to make a similar Motion, had he not been anticipated by the hon. member for Oldham. He did not mean to follow that hon. Member through all his statements, though he nearly concurred in all of them. The hon. Member had put forth his statements rather too strongly, since he believed that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) did not intend to establish the non-convertibility of paper into gold. He confessed, however, without going so far as the hon. member for Oldham, that the measure would have a tendency to limit the convertibility of paper. One of his chief reasons for rejecting the measure was, that he did not see why they should ratify a bargain that nobody seemed willing to consent to. He believed that there was a large majority of persons both in that House and out of it, who did not consider the bargain an advantageous one for the country. He might include in the number of those who held such an opinion, even the noble Lord who had brought in the measure. However, he would not have seconded the Amendment before the House, had he found that the great corporation of the Bank were satisfied with the measure. But they were not; at least they publicly said so. For they now thought, that the noble Lord was consenting to an interpretation of their privileges in a way which went to break the bargain as it was originally agreed to. At a meeting last week, the following resolution was come to by the Bank proprietors—they say, "That this Court feels itself bound in justice to its own character, to protest against the treatment it has experienced at the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who has, in the opinion of this Court, most improperly and unjustly departed from the terms of his own proposition; and after having engaged to grant certain privileges to the Bank, on consideration of stipulated pecuniary concessions, has since determined to withhold from the Bank some of the most important of those privileges, without making a corresponding abatement in the pecuniary concession. That, although this course of procedure, and the violation of the contract, fully justified the Bank in rejecting the arrangement  in toto 767 768 769
 Mr. Fryer  said, he would not oppose the Bill; but he would recommend his Majesty to provide a considerable issue of silver money in crown pieces, to meet the amount of gold that might be substracted from the country, silver money would be much more convenient than gold for the payment of wages. One effect of the provision which he recommended Ministers to make would be, that if, in consequence of the turning of the foreign exchanges against us, the gold should go out of the country, the silver that would remain would be sufficient to pay the wages of the labourers. The country bankers under such circumstances, would be obliged to get their silver from the branch banks by giving gold for it. The result of the adoption of this plan would be, that in time it would bring about what he thought should be established—namely, a silver tender instead of a gold one.
 Mr. Herries  would not at this stage of the Bill, and at the present advanced: period of the Session, take up the time of: the House with any lengthened observations on this subject. With respect to the legal-tender clause, however strong his objections, he would not then go into it, seeing that that part of the measure would be open to revision in the next Session of Parliament, on the occasion of the introduction of those parts of the measure which had been postponed till then; and even should such an occasion not arise, if those evils which he anticipated would follow from this legal-tender clause should have come into operation, as he had no doubt they would, he trusted to the good sense and wisdom of Parliament to provide a remedy for them. The House was now called upon to pass an Act of the greatest, importance to this commercial community, He would not say it was unjust towards the Bank, because that Act, if even one of injustice, was not an act of injustice on the part of the House of Commons. He personally felt satisfied, that it was not consistent with the dignity of the House to be parties to forcing upon any body of men an act which that body, reluctantly submitting to it, declared, as they had declared, to be one of injustice. The Bank of England said they submitted most reluctantly, and, at the same time, protesting against the justice of the proceeding; but it was satisfactory that their
 770 771 772
 Lord Althorp , before addressing himself to the objections of the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, wished to answer the objections of the hon. member for Oldham. The hon. member for Oldham had assumed that the only object of making Bank of England paper a legal tender was to depreciate the currency. No one would more readily admit than he (Lord Althorp) that such an effect, if it did follow upon this measure, would be a great evil: but as he could not admit the premises of the hon. Member, neither could he admit his conclusions; and his own sincere opinion was, there was nothing in this measure which would have the effect of depreciating the currency. He was sorry to take away the character which the hon. Member had assumed, of being a prophet; but he (Lord Althorp) remembered that the hon. Member, in alluding to a speech delivered in that House by a former Chancellor of the Exchequer, in which he had spoken of the prosperity of the country, had prophesied that, within two years, there would be a convulsion in the country. Now, unfortunately, the hon. Member had made a mistake in the dale, as that speech was made in 1825. There was another prophecy made by the hon. Member of this kind—that if ever the currency ceased to be deficient, or if the monetary system were put upon a right footing, the prophet would allow himself to be burnt upon his own gridiron. Now, according to the hon. Member's own showing, the monetary system had attained the very best footing, so that the prophecy had come to pass. The hon. Gentleman had said, that
 773 774 775
 The Attorney General  observed, that the Act of William 3rd was the source of the formation of the Bank of England, and it should not be forgotten what was the state of the law at that period with regard to the business of banking. The first privilege extended to the Bank of England was by the 5th of William 3rd, which imposed the first restrictions upon banking establishments; and he thought that Act would be found to contain
 776
 Mr. Abel Smith  was understood to say, that he was authorized by his friend the Bank Director to whom the noble Lord had alluded to express his regret for the expressions which he had made use of a few days since at the meeting of bank proprietors, though his opinions with respect to the conduct of Government remained unchanged. He himself also wished it to be understood, that upon that occasion he had no intention of saying anything personally offensive to the noble Lord, The bargain between the noble Lord and the Bank was made under the impression that the law was different from what it now appeared to be, and under these circumstances he thought that when the bargain was altered, the Bank ought to have received some compensation for the advantage which they were to be deprived of. The hon. member for the Tower Hamlets had not acted fairly in reading only one of the resolutions agreed to in the Bank parlour, from which the assent given by the Bank to the bargain in its altered form appeared to rest on grounds different from that upon which it really stood. Surely the Bank was not to be condemned for expressing sympathy for the interests of
 777
 The Solicitor General  said, that after the most deliberate and dispassionate consideration, he was confirmed in the opinion which he had recently expressed. That opinion was wholly unbiassed; and if he had any wish on the subject, it was that he could have concurred in the view which had originally been taken of it. He was decidedly of opinion, that the establishment of joint-stock banks of deposit consisting of more than six partners within sixty-five miles of London, had never been prohibited by law, and that of course they could at any time have been legally established.
 Mr. Robinson , in coming to a decision on the question that the Bill be read a third time, would be governed only by considerations of public expediency, without reference to what had recently passed elsewhere. He thought, that the hon. member for Oldham had greatly exagerated the apprehensions which ought to be entertained with respect to the legal-tender clause. If anything like the depreciation of the currency which he anticipated from that measure were likely to occur, the Table of the House would have been covered with petitions, praying that it might be postponed. The question was, whether, after such efforts had been made to bring the measure to maturity, it was desirable now to postpone it without any demand to that effect from the people. What security could the advocates of postponement offer that a more beneficial measure would be brought forward next Session. The only thing which the public could hope to gain by postponement was a better pecuniary bargain but that ought not to be put in competition with the mischief of thus keeping all the great interests of the country in a state of feverish uncertainty. In reference to what the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets had stated as to speculation, he begged to state that speculation had commenced before the Bill was introduced, and originated in causes which had no
 778
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  thought, that when the opinion of two such eminent lawyers as Sir James Scarlett and Sir Edward Sugden was at variance with that of the law officers of the Crown as to the point in dispute between the Bank and the Government, it would have been better to have passed a law to determine a point, rather than to have effected that object by a declaratory clause, as was now proposed.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, it appeared clearly to him, that much more deliberation would be necessary before this Bill were sent up to the other House of Parliament. Whether the Banking-laws which had previously existed were wise or absurd was not the question now before the House; indeed, under existing circumstances, the great question for consideration was, whether, at this late period of the Session, such a question should have been submitted to Parliament. Taking the conduct of the Government altogether upon this question, it was one of procrastination, danger, and disorder; and in truth there was too much business of serious importance now before the House to admit of this Bill being as fully discussed as it would necessarily be in the course of the next Session. In discussing the question of joint-stock bank companies of deposit in London the opinions of lawyers should not be especially regarded; for in fact, the common sense of bankers, of traders, and merchants generally, could much better decide the question. If lawyers had been consulted before the bargain was made by the Government with the Bank there might have been something in it, but in the present state of the case the opinion of lawyers could be of little or no advantage. The Bank had charged the Chancellor of the Exchequer with a breach of faith in this transaction, and particularly as to making the Bank of England the only joint-stock bank for deposits to vest in the Bank of England. He could not say whether
 779
 Mr. Hume  said, that the speech of the hon. Member was strongly in favour of the rejection of the Bill, although the hon. Member said he would vote for the third
 780
 Mr. Hawes  had a most decided objection to the legal tender clause as it existed in this Bill. If it were continued, Bank paper could not be converted into gold, and, above all, small dealings must entirely be carried on in an inconvertible paper currency. If this clause were carried, the inevitable result would be, he was afraid, to have a re-issue of 1 l
 Mr. George Wood  would move the insertion of words in this Bill to guard against any claim for compensation on the part of the Bank, if, at any time during the continuance of the Charter, Parliament should think fit to repeal or modify the enactment making the Bank of England notes a legal tender. He would also move the addition of a clause, providing that so long as the Bank of England notes continue a legal tender, the Bank shall be required to continue branch banks for purposes of business at convenient stations in different parts of the kingdom. The hon. Member moved the last Amendment he had described.
 Mr. Cobbett  seconded the Motion, He observed, that the noble Lord supported the Bill on the ground that it would not occasion a depreciation and rise of prices; he thought it would; the House had voted with the noble Lord, but had done so from taking his (Mr. Cobbett's) view of the subject, believing it would occasion a rise of prices. If the Bill did occasion a rise of prices, it would produce
 781
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the clause was useless for the object which the hon. Member had in view. He wished to preserve the branch banks, and that the same facility should be afforded by them as now existed. But the clause would not effect that; for all the clause enacted was, that branch banks should exist in certain places. If the Bank found it to be its interest to carry on branch banks, it would do so; if not, in spite of the clause, the branch banks would be merely nominal; the clause did not compel the banks to do business and issue notes for which they would be compelled to give gold. On this ground he objected to the clause. So important did he think the legal tender clause to the Bill, that he should be unwilling to give the monopoly to the Bank, unless it was accompanied by a provision for making its paper a legal tender, which was necessary for the security of a single bank of issue; it was not done for the purpose of introducing a large supply of paper, and least of all a depreciation.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  protested against the Bank being compelled to keep up establishments which the wants of the public might not require, and which might be inconsistent with its own interests.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  was of opinion, that the notes of the branch banks ought to be payable in London, otherwise notes issued in any corner of the kingdom would be a legal tender, from York to Cornwall, although only payable at the place of issue—a system that must be attended with great inconvenience.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his determination to divide the House on his Amendment, that it be an instruction to the Committee to provide for the repayment of this money, charging upon the temporalities of the Irish Church all sums advanced under the Bill, and not repaid by the tithe-owners.
 Mr. O'Ferrall  objected to the clause, on the ground that it gave the landlords the same power to recover tithes from their tenants as they already possessed with regard to their rents. He was determined to take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, with reference to the Greek loan that the whole arrangement was ill advised and imprudent, if this Government had raised the part of the
 764 l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if the Post-office had not the power of opening parcels to see whether a fraud was committed upon the public revenue in any case in which they had good reason to suspect that a fraud was attempted, he, for one, should be ready to give them that power. The accommodation which the Post-office afforded was most excellent, and he thought that fraud upon such an admirably conducted branch of the public service ought to be prevented. Any one had the power to send letters to any part of the country by a friend.
 Mr. Herries  asked what provision had been made to meet the grant of 1,000,000 l
 Mr. Herries  did not know how far the grants out of the consolidated fund last year had been satisfied. He wished to know how far that fund stood pledged for the grants made from it. He would repeat his question, whether any provision had been made to meet the grant of 1,000,000 l
 Mr. Herries : Then, we must have another budget for that.
 Mr. Herries  wished to know in what state was the unfunded debt as compared with its amount last year?
 Mr. Herries : Then it will be added to the unfunded debt?
 Mr. Hume  did not understand, that even an issue of Exchequer-bills could be made without the authority of Parliament. He should wish to know from the noble Lord something on the subject of the grant of a million for the West-India interest. As to the grant of 20,000,000 l 762 l l l
 Mr. Tooke  presented a Petition from Mr. Oxenham, a Solicitor of Taunton, complaining that a parcel of deeds which he sent by the mail had been opened and detained because there were two letters inside. The letters related to the deeds and other business between him and his agent. The petitioner had received a letter from the Solicitor to the Post office, stating, that he had incurred two penalties. Soon after he received another letter, stating that the Postmaster-General would compromise the matter, by exacting only one penalty.
 Lord Althorp  rose to submit the last proposition which he had to lay before the Committee of the Ways and Means, to meet the supplies already voted. The supplies which had been granted in the present Session for the year ending the 31st of March, were—
 
 
 For the service of the army £ 
 For the nary 4,658,134 
 For the ordnance 1,462,223 
 For the miscellaneous service 1,845,312 
 Total £ 
 To this was to be added the estimated amount of interest on Exchequer Bills 615,000 
 Making the whole £ 761 
 
 £ 
 The annual payment by the India Company on account of half-pay 60,000 
 To be brought from the produce of the sugar duty 3,000,000 
 Estimated amount of repayment of loans for public works 150,000 
 Former grant from the consolidated fund 6,000,000 
 Making in the whole 9,210,000 
 To this he proposed to add a further grant from the consolidated fund, of 6,000,000 
 Which would bring the whole up to 15,210,000 l l l
 Lord Althorp  said, that it would not be necessary to make any provision with respect to the Greek loan. There was no money due on it yet, and would not be for some time, unless the Greek revenue, which was pledged for its repayment, should fail, which he hoped would not be the case. As to the million of money, it had been voted by a resolution of a Committee of the whole House, on which a Bill had been brought in, which was now in progress. It would not, therefore, be necessary to take any other vole for that.
 Lord Althorp  answered in the affirmative.
 Lord Althorp  had not intended to go into any statement as to the whole financial state of the country, and was not prepared to enter into such details as the right hon. Gentleman seemed to wish for. He would, however, make a short statement as to the amount of income and expenditure as nearly as possible up to the present time. He had estimated the income of the year at 45,438,188 l l l l 763 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 Lord Althorp : It would be met by an issue of Exchequer-bills.
 Lord Althorp : Not any.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the surplus of the consolidated fund last year had exceeded the grants of supply, and this year it would be the same. At the present moment there was no surplus on account of the payments made in the beginning of the quarter; but he hoped that the sums drawn from the consolidated fund would be made good before the end of the present quarter, or at least before that of the quarter ending in January, 1834.
 Mr. O'Reilly  had hoped, that Government would not impose on the people of Ireland such a harsh and arbitrary Bill, and he submitted whether it would not be more satisfactory to the country if the Jury Bill were first passed, in order that it might be seen whether all the objects proposed to be attained would not be affected by that Bill. He hoped Government would be induced to defer the present Bill; but if they would not consent to that, he should endeavour to convince the House, that the Bill was wholly unnecessary. If the object of the Jury Bill were to cause impartial justice to be administered to the people of Ireland, it was wholly unnecessary to bring forward this measure. The object of the present Bill was to give the power to the prosecutor, in all cases in which it was apprehended that impartial justice could not be obtained, to remove the trial to the neighbouring
 791 Solicitor General
 The Solicitor General  said, he hoped that the Jury Bill, to which the hon. Member referred, and the present Bill would go hand in hand together; they were in perfect harmony, and he hoped they would pass—and pass for the benefit of Ireland. He had nothing nearer to his heart than that justice should be administered satisfactorily. The present Bill was perfectly in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution; and, far from being opposed to Trial by Jury, would support it, by giving impartial and satisfactory trials. By the common law of England, the Court of King's Bench possessed in this country almost all the powers which were given by this Bill; but the powers given by this Bill were more safe and more for the benefit of the accused, than any given by the common law. The Court of King's Bench, upon being informed that a fair trial could not be had, might change the place of trial either for felony or mis-
 792
 Mr. O'Dwyer  should lament to see the Bill become a law, because he believed it to be unnecessary. He was sorry to see
 793
 Mr. Littleton  said, the hon. Gentleman entertained an erroneous opinion with respect to the feelings of the people of England towards those of Ireland, as evidenced by the Acts of that House. He was convinced, that if such scenes as had unfortunately disgraced and disturbed that unhappy country had taken place in any county or counties in England, the Legislature would not have been less prompt, nor the people less willing to have had such counties placed under coercive laws. And nothing, he was convinced, could be more necessary than a change in the system of empanelling Juries. The necessity for that change was proved from what was so well known on the subject as regarded striking for Juries, both in the South and the North of Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  could not see how any reasonable objection could be raised to the Bill, as it secured the Trial by Jury in a manner more secure than any Jury Act could be passed. It also secured that country against the repetition of those offences which have been so lately prevalent in Ireland. On that ground he supported the Bill, being perfectly sure there was nothing in it unconstitutional, and that it would be found most beneficial for Ireland.
 Mr. Lynch  could not agree with the noble Lord, that this was a beneficial law for Ireland. He saw the same spirit pervading it that suggested the coercive measure. If there was any necessity for the measure, it ought to have been carried long since. He should like to ask, whether there had been any defect in the administration of justice, either at the Spring or Summer Assizes in Ireland? In his opinion this was a violent alteration of the law, and would take away one of the greatest safe-guards—the Trial by Jury. There was no precedent for such a measure, except that which had occurred in 1772. He hoped, if the measure were passed, it would not be made universal, as he was of opinion it ought to be applied only to those counties that required it.
 Mr. Shaw  thought the Bill a most salutary measure, and he should therefore give it his support. He, however, agreed with the hon. and learned Member who spoke fast, that it ought to have been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session.
 Mr. Shaw  had no objection to the principle of assimilating the law of England and Ireland on this question, but he considered the mode of doing it as it was done by this Bill to be absurd.
 The Solicitor General  supported the Bill, the object of which was to oblige the Sheriff to Select Juries fairly and impartially.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  took the same view of the Bill. It would secure the selection of a better class of Jurors, and a more impartial mode of selection.
 Mr. O'Reilly  approved of the Bill generally, but he did not agree in that part which left the selection to irresponsible persons.
 Mr. Lynch  wished the assimilation had had taken place long ago, and regretted that it was not now carried to a greater extent.
 Mr. Cobbett  would not say anything on the Bill, as he knew nothing about it, but he hoped that, as it was intended that next Session the House should sit from ten o'clock in the morning to five o'clock in the afternoon, the public business would not be huddled up in this manner, so that Members could not find time to make themselves acquainted with it.
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  said, that the opinions unfavourable to the present Beer Bill were not confined to the clergy alone. There were Gentlemen whom he had known for the last thirty or forty years who attributed to that Bill the increase of the crimes of sheep-stealing, poaching, and other offences. They said, that those crimes were not so frequent before the existing Beer Bill had passed into a law. If the hon. member for Oldham would look into the evidence of
 800
 Colonel Williams  supported the Bill, and expressed a hope that the Government would persevere in pressing it forward during the present Session, as it would have the effect of putting down nine-tenths of the beer shops now in existence under the present law—"a consummation," in his judgment, "most devoutly to be wished." He, however, thought the Bill would not be complete without the addition he purposed proposing in the Committee, to prevent the consumption of beer upon the premises.
 Colonel Williams  said, that the only argument he had ever heard against allowing the members of the royal family to marry English wives was, that their doing so might give a preponderance to particular families in the country. In the present state of the country and of that House, he did not look upon such an argument as of any importance.
 Mr. Lloyd  would recommend the postponement of the measure until next Session, there were so many objectionable provisions in it. Without wishing at all to disparage those Magistrates who had given evidence before the Committee, he could not avoid saying that their evidence exhibited a singular character of one-sidedness, and of jumping to conclusions by no means warranted by the premises. Poaching they said had increased—rick-burning had increased—crime, in short, of all kinds had increased, and the whole was attributable to the estab-
 804 post hoc, ergo propler hoc
 Colonel Williams , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Act of 12th George 3rd, cap. 11, called an Act for the better regulating the future marriages of the Royal Family, said, that his object was, to procure the repeal of an Act from which, as experience had proved, no good, but much mischief, had followed. He had intended to introduce to the House the opinions of many persons, both in that and the other House of Parliament, expressed at the time of passing this Bill, with regard to the propriety of such a measure. Many potent reasons were then advanced against it, and he must say, that the balance of wisdom was to be found in opposition to it. The Bill had been originally introduced, not as a national, but as a court measure, and it had been proportionably hurried through Parliament, for, though introduced into the House late in February, it was passed on the 3rd of March. The Bill provided that no member of the royal family should marry without giving notice to the King
 805 806
 Colonel Williams  said, that he had no intention to press the Motion, if the noble Lord would allow the Bill to be introduced, and read a first time.
 Lord George Bentinck  said, that the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners, which attributed the riots and outrages of the year 1830 to the beer-shops, was alone sufficient to call for some legislative interference with regard to their regulation. He trusted the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would not abandon the present Bill.
 Lord Hotham  bore testimony to the liberal spirit which had been manifested by the Select Committee on whose Report the Bill had been introduced, and contended, that even the evidence of the three clergymen of the Church of England referred to by the hon. member for Oldham was sufficient to justify some change in the law. If the measure was persevered in, he should give it his support, though he thought it would have been more desirable that it should have been submitted to a fuller House than was at present collected.
 Mr. Lynch  was understood to say, that the object of the Bill, so far as it went to stop litigation, might seem to be good; but that its effect would be to deprive the parties concerned of all remedy whatever. An unjust clamour had been raised as to the number of suits instituted. The fact, that they were so numerous was not owing to the clergy, but to the provisions of the Bill of last year, which had rendered them absolutely necessary.
 Mr. Tower  supported the Bill, in common with the Grand Jurors of the county with which he was connected, he conceived the effects of the existing law to be most pernicious, and he was satisfied that on sound principles of Legislation the present Bill could not he objected to, inasmuch as it would work injustice upon no individual.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the Bill was one which seriously affected the industrious classes of the community, and others whom hon. Members would have no opportunity of consulting upon a measure introduced at so late a period of the present Session. The Bill, it was true, came down from a Select Committee of the House, but the Report of that Committee strongly induced him to think that it was highly desirable to defer this Bill until the next Session of Parliament, for it was at complete variance in many points with the provisions contained in the Bill now under consideration, particularly as regarded the hours at which the beer-shops should be kept open, and other police regulations detailed in the report. The advanced period of the Session made it impossible that these points could be provided for in the Bill; and he was fully of opinion, that much benefit would accrue from deferring legislating on the subject until consideration could be fully given to all the alterations in the present law which the Select Committee had recommended. But he also objected to the Bill, because it would double the amount of duty, and in this way was nothing more than an indirect tax upon beer, for the produce of the increased license-duty to the revenue, he was told, would amount to 100,000 l 798
 Mr. Spring Rice  confessed he could not answer the complaint of the hon. member for Bridport, that the Bill had been introduced at so late a period of the present Session, but any delay that had occurred in bringing in the Bill was attributable to the indisposition of his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, shortly after the Select Committee had made their Report. Admitting fully the late period at which the Bill was brought forward, he must observe, that the hon. member for Bridport had not dealt fairly with the provisions of this Bill, the objects of which were founded upon the opinion that it was better to fix a tax, even such as that which had been deprecated, than to leave the granting of licences to the loose  arbitrium 799
 Mr. Blamire  rose, to propose the second reading of the Tithes (Stay of Suits) Bill. He wished that the hon. and learned Solicitor General had taken on himself the task of introducing this measure. He knew that it was a difficult and delicate thing to legislate on such a subject, and he hoped, that whatever defects of detail might be found in his Bill, the House would not on that account throw it out, but would join with him in the attempt to amend them. He was convinced, that the consequences of the evil for which this Bill was to provide a remedy would be most mischievous to the cause of religion, good order, and morality. The clergy said, they had been driven to this step by the Government themselves. He did not exactly understand that; but of this he was sure, that the proceedings which he now sought to stay would produce such an effect all over the country, as to indispose the people properly to receive a fair and equitable measure for a general tithe composition. It had been heretofore customary, when plaintiffs proceeded for the recovery of tithes, that a few cases were selected, the decision upon which was considered to be binding upon the whole; but it had unfortunately happened that, by the Act passed last year commonly called Lord Tenterden's Act, no plaintiff could recover for tithes due, unless the proceedings were commenced, as against every individual party, within a certain period. In consequence of this Act, in Kendal, there had been 1,500 suits entered for tithes, and ten individuals were included in each suit; and in the county of Cumberland, as many as 150 persons were named in each suit. By this system an immense expense was entailed, and it was the bounden duty of the House to take some steps to check that expenditure.
 795
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that, looking to the impossibility of passing the Bill that Session, and looking to the fact, that the noble Lord brought it forward to show that he wished to do something for the good of the public, he should say but a very few words upon the subject. The Bill was one of very great importance, as it affected millions of men, and in a very sensible way, too, since it touched upon their comforts. If the right hon. Gentleman thought that the evidence of the Report alluded to attributed the great increase of crime to the beer-shops, the right hon. Gentleman had not read the Report with the attention he (Mr. Cobbett) had read it. The evidence of that Report—excepting the evidence of one or two of the clergy and of two hired overseers—did not attribute the increase of crime to the beer-shops. There was another thing in the Report that ought not to have been published—it was a scandalous libel, and which might be made more offensive, since it could be copied with little danger. He alluded to the shameful evidence of an exciseman, which was one of the grossest libels he ever saw upon paper. The parties were named in the libel—they were two men and two women. The latter were accused of adultery, and the former were said to be partners in the crime, and their characters painted in the very worst light. He was not surprised that the prying, envious, and disappointed exciseman of a village should have given such evidence; but he was greatly astonished that the Committee should have allowed such evidence to be printed. In his opposition to the Bill he was completely disinterested. It would not affect him—it would lay no tax upon him; indeed the noble Lord could not tax him in the way of drink, unless he chose to lay a tax on cows' udders. He hoped that he should hear no more of the Bill for the present Session.
 Mr. Ewart  concurred with the hon. member for Bridport, that so important a Bill as that under consideration should not be pressed forward at the present advanced stage of the Session.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  earnestly wished, that some general measure should be speedily introduced to set the question of tithes at rest. As to this Bill, he regretted the hon. Member (Mr. Blamire) had not brought it forward much earlier, and that he had not sooner moved for the returns he had moved for last night respecting the number of suits commenced for the recovery of tithes. On the present occasion, the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Solicitor General), as on some others as he thought, had gone a little further than, from his high station, he was justified in going. That hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that, in Kendal parish alone, no less than 1,500 actions had been commenced for the recovery of tithes, whereas it appeared there were but 150 actions, although against 1,500 persons. Certainly 150 actions were a great many; but, let it be recollected, that the clergy had no alternative than that of either bringing the actions, or abandoning their right to tithes. He was not prepared to say, that some Bill, similar to the present, was not called for; but he thought it would be much better that Ministers should take upon themselves the responsibility of bringing in some general measure to regulate the system of tithes, and that, in the meantime, all actions should be postponed, reserving to parties interested their present rights, until the subject was set at rest by Parliament. That would do more than anything else to quell the angry feelings which the bringing of so many actions had created.
 The Solicitor General  said, that he had heard nothing of clamour raised against the clergy—he had heard of regret—he had expressed regret at these proceedings, and he did so again. As a friend to the Church, he deplored to hear that 1,500 suits had been instituted in one parish alone. If they were allowed to be proceeded with, the consequences would be most lamentable; tithes would become odious; payment of them might be suspended, and all hopes of a just composition would be at an end. He was firmly of opinion, that tithes were as-much property as any other thing, and ought to be protected. The setting aside of a long-established modus was a calamity, for the land in such a parish had been bought and sold over and over again under it. The tithes, if impropriate, had also been bought and sold, and by setting aside a modus, the tithe-owner would get what he had not bought, and the land-owner would no longer have what he had honestly paid for.
 The Solicitor General  was anxious not to permit the idea to go abroad, that the Act in question prevented the marriage of members of the royal family with English women. That was a vulgar, but a gross mistake, with regard to it. The Act provided that no descendant of George 2nd should marry any subject without the consent of the reigning Sovereign, but if the consent were given, the marriage would be valid. The hon. Member should be aware that, by the common law of England, independently of the Marriage Act, the reigning Sovereign had always the right to control the marriages of his children and heirs, and of the heir presumptive to the Throne. The Royal Marriage Act only provided that no descendant of George 2nd should have a right to marry without that consent.
 807
 Lord Althorp  said, that since the passing of the Act respecting beer-shops he had not, owing to his occupation with official business, had an opportunity of acquiring practical information on the subject. He must say, however, that according to all the information which had reached him, it was plain that however the statements might be highly coloured or exaggerated in some instances, there could be no doubt that universally, in all parts of the country, the increase that had taken place in crime had been attributed to the beer-shops. Under such circumstances, the question was, whether the present system of beer-shops did not require some alteration and regulation. During the last two Sessions, though great complaints had been made with regard to the effects of the Beer Bill, he (Lord Althorp) had opposed the making any alteration in it, conceiving that it was due to it, as an experimental measure, to wait and see whether the evils which were attributed to the operation of it might not ultimately disappear. But, now that they
 802 803
 Lord Althorp  said, that this was a subject of the greatest possible importance, and that he should be wanting in his duty if he allowed even the first reading of such a Bill without the subject undergoing the fullest and most complete discussion, which it would be impossible to obtain for it at this period of the Session, and in the present state of the House. He was well aware, that there were grave authorities who had disapproved of this measure; but there were also high opinions in favour of it, and a measure of such importance was not to be touched upon light consideration. He would not now go into the details of the question, for he hoped that the hon. Member would not persist in his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. Gentleman had brought forward this Motion at an extraordinary late period of the Session, and with more business before the House than it could well dispose of.
 Mr. O' Connell  was exceedingly sorry that the Government should have determined upon ending the Session as they had begun it, by offering insult to Ireland, and heaping injury upon her. If, at the commencement of the present Session, the shadow of a case had been made out for the necessity of such a Bill as the one before the House, it was utterly out of the power of any individual in existence who had the least regard to truth, to allege, that such necessity existed at present. Not a particle of ground existed for such an offence against every law and every right, as was offered to Ireland by the present measure. Since the days of Cromwell, who had depopulated the land for the purpose, that country had never been so quiet as it was now. It was not to be denied, that much agitation and irritation existed there some time back; but these were attributable to two causes—first and principal was the collection of tithes. During the last year and a-half the utmost violence had been resorted to by the clergy and the lay impropriators, in the collection of arrears of tithes. Not only had the clerical statutes been put in requisition, but the law of the last Session had been had recourse to for the purpose. From one end to the other, Ireland had been covered with military, police, infantry, and even artillery. The like had never been seen before in any civilized country. 60,000 l. l. l. 808 809
 The Solicitor General  said, that he had heard Judges themselves lay it down as the law; he knew of his own knowledge, that it was practised every term by them; and he fully concurred in opinion with them as to its legality.
 Mr. O'Connell : Then the law is bad. But even if it were good, that very circumstance made against the present Bill. It proved it perfectly unnecessary. But the opinion of the Judges of the Court of King's Bench was not law. He had carefully read over the statutes on the subject since the question was first mooted; and he would pledge his professional reputation, that it was not law. But it was only of a piece with the conduct of the Government to Ireland all through their administration. They had began the Session with coercion, and with coercion they meant, he perceived, to end it. But it might be said, that such a Bill as the present was wanted for the North of Ireland, and that some late circumstances had proved its necessity. He would meet that objection. On a recent occasion, he admitted that disturbance had taken place there. But who caused it? The Government had passed a Bill last Session prohibiting processions—was it enforced in the North of Ireland—the only place to which it could at all apply? Why, the Orangemen only laughed at it. They continued their processions as before, and would continue them so long as the Magistrates countenanced them, and set the law and the Ministry both at defiance. In fact, legislating for that part of the kingdom was worse than useless, until there was a complete purgation of the Magistracy and all Orange partizans were put out of the commission. The consequence of the continuance of the present Magistracy in power was, that on the 12th of July there was an Orange procession in Belfast, another at Antrim, and others elsewhere; at all of which these functionaries, if not assistants, were participants, inasmuch as they were present, and countenancing the infraction of the law by not attempting to enforce its observance. Another circumstance connected with the North of Ireland was worthy of the utmost attention, as well from its curiousness as from the fatal consequences it had led to. At Coote-hill there had been an affray between the Catholics and the Orangemen; lives had been lost—every one knew that. How? Why, it had been proved, on an investigation which
 810 alibi. 811
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, and those who generally acted with him, were in the habit of designating, as the people of Ireland, that portion of them only who had rendered themselves obnoxious to the Statute-law of the land. Now, he (Mr. Littleton) could not agree in the propriety of that designation. On the contrary, he deemed it quite misplaced; and, for his own part, he could only apply the term "people of Ireland" to all the well-disposed and peaceable inhabitants of that country. It was said by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the present Bill was not required by the circumstances of the country. Before he proceeded to answer that assertion, he should state to the House, that it had been drawn up while his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, filled the office which he (Mr. Littleton) had then the honour to hold; but that it had his most cordial concurrence in all its parts, not only as applicable to the state of Ireland at that period, but also as applicable to it at the present. What was the nature of the evidence on which it was founded? Why, it was, that not only jurors, but prosecutors and witnesses, were so intimidated, that they did not dare to discharge their duty. In fact, that formed the preamble of the Bill. Who would Venture to deny, that they had been so
 812
 Mr. O'Reilly  would have no objection to the Bill as a temporary measure. But it would be impossible to effect the equal administration of justice by the mere change of venue. The same Orange authority which packed a Jury in the north, would do the same thing in the county of Dublin. The power of the Crown to set Juries aside, gave it, in practice, the power of nomina-tion.
 Mr. Sinclair , in reply to the observations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin respecting the unfitness of Orangemen to be impartial Jurors, took upon himself to say, that amongst the Orangemen of Ireland there were many of the most respectable gentlemen in the country, who were compelled to form that association, to counteract the machinations of the Popish clergy. It was very improper to term those gentlemen "exotics" in Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Secretary, which would determine the course he should take on this occasion. He wished to know whether, if payment was not made from the sources provided in this Bill, there would be any objection to render Church property liable?
 Mr. Littleton  said, he should most undoubtedly object to a clause with such a provision.
 Mr. Hume  must, then, move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. Notwithstanding all that had been said by the noble Lord, and those who supported him, he (Mr. Hume) could not see the least probability of the money being repaid to the British treasury. He could not get a single Member from Ireland to say, that there was the slightest prospect of it. He asked, then, whether it was not a fraud to pass a Bill avowedly holding out security for repayment, when there was, in fact, none. This Bill was objectionable on many grounds; but he would oppose it on the ground, that it would support that establishment which had hitherto been the cause in Ireland of almost all the evil and discontent that had prevailed. The acts of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, with respect to tithes, had failed, and he hoped the present, and all other unconstitutional acts, would fail; He would recommend the Government to accept the offer made by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and, reducing the Church Establishment in Ireland to the absolute spiritual wants of Protestant inhabitants, to levy the necessary amount then required upon the landed proprietors. As an honest man he did not think the property in tithes should be lost, but, he thought, the measure before the House only calculated to perpetuate the evils of the system. The hon. Member concluded by making his Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged leave to offer his most hearty thanks to the Ministry for the Bill; he hailed it as the commencement of pacification for Ireland. The hon. member for Middlesex had not correctly quoted what he (Mr. O'Connell) had said on the subject of levying tithes on the landlord. What he had said was, that he divided the amount of tithes into three portions, as regarded their operation on the payers—namely, the landlord, as owner of the land, the tenant's capital, and the tenant's labour; and what he wished was, that neither the capital nor the labour should be called upon to contribute, but what was absolutely necessary to be paid should be paid by the landowner. Was it fair, he would ask the House, that the Catholic people of Ireland should pay for the support of a Protestant Church?—keep up an establishment foreign to their feelings, and opposed to the principles of their religious belief? The present Bill would have the effect of relieving the people of
 814 l. s d l. l. 815 For Satan, now grown wiser than before, Tempts man by making rich, not making poor.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the hon. and learned member for Dublin had taken his metaphors from every subject—from grave to gay—from lively to severe—from the whistle to the broad-sword—and in a very indiscriminate manner. In reference to one point, the hon. and learned Member had said, that his own parish had been relieved to the extent of 2,500 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to say, that, when he went into the parish, seventeen years ago, the Church-rates were but 400 l. l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that whatever had been gained by the hon. and learned Gentleman had not, perhaps, been lost by the Church; but it was lost by other parties. With regard to the present Bill, he concurred in the views which had been origin-
 816
 Mr. Warburton  begged to request, that the hon. member for Middlesex would not press his Amendment upon the third reading of the Bill, but that he would take the sense of the House upon the introduction of his clause to secure the repayment of the money by the Church property, in failure of payment by the parties to whom it was advanced.
 Mr. Shaw  would not be provoked by the attack of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. O'Connell) on the Church and clergy of Ireland, to go into a general defence of the conduct, as he had so frequently had to do before throughout the Session. When the hon. and learned Gentleman, however, accused the Irish clergy of vexatious and tyrannical conduct, he most emphatically denied it—and he could not help thinking, that the hon. Member, and those who acted with him, would not have shown equal forbearance and moderation under similar circumstances—he might, indeed, refer to a recent instance, and comparing the necessities of the clergy with the mere vanity of the hon. member (Mr. O'Connell), ask whether, when the public Press did not supply all that the hon. and learned Member's appetite craved, he evinced the same temper, good taste, and good conduct that had characterized the Irish clergy throughout the course of their unprecedented privations? He agreed, however, in the reasoning of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell), and of the hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton), that the present Bill was intended, by the advance of a million of money, to buy off the
 817 818 l. 819 820
 Lord Althorp  rose and said, as he conceived such a clause, instead of securing the payment of the advance, would secure its non-payment, by the parties to whom the money was to be granted, he could not agree to it. It would be a more straight forward course at once to charge the advance of money on the funds which would fall into the hands of the Commissioners.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to know whether any arrangement had been made with respect to the sales of tea on hand; and also whether any arrangement had been made with respect to the time ships would be allowed to sail from this country to Canton?
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that it was essential that the stock of tea on hand should be such as would promote not only the interest of the private trader, but the consumer also; and so far from considering that 'there was any conflicting or opposite interests between the consumer, the Government, and the East-India Company, all their interests were bound together. What was desirable was, to reduce the present stock of tea in such a manner as to give free scope to the private trader; but, in his opinion, it would not be desirable to reduce it actually to zero. It was not for the interest of the East-India Company that there should be an accumulation of tea left in their possession, as that would have the effect of distressing the private trader, and exposing him to a competition he did not calculate upon. With respect to the quarterly sales, it was not intended
 827
 Mr. Crawford  said, he would not have ventured to have addressed the House at so early a period, if he had not been applied to by the traders resident in the City of London, who were deeply interested in the tea trade. The application made to him was by a highly respectable Committee of Traders, who complained that they had not received any communication of the intended details until after they had been printed and publicly promulgated by his Majesty's Ministers. These gentlemen, and the trade generally, objected to the classification adopted by the Government, as being opposed to the interest of the importers and the consumers. He thought, that his Majesty's Ministers should afford an opportunity for an early reconsideration of the subject, and give time for such communications with the trade as would enable a better classification to be made. The Gentlemen who had applied to him had informed him, that there were eight descriptions of tea, which would come properly under the second class, and be charged at a duty of 2 s d s
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the House would be aware that the tea trade, in some respects, differed from every other; and that as the Government was, as it were, in actual contact with the parties interested, twenty-four hours need not have elapsed, after the Resolutions were promulgated, before the trade might have
 828 ad valorem ad valorem
 Mr. Aglionby  gave his support to the object
 832 bonâ fide
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that this was one of the most injudicious Bills that had ever been submitted to Parliament, for it was a direct interference with the rights of private property. Every person who fancied that he had a clain for tithes should have the opportunity of instituting proceedings in a Court of Law to recover it. It was to be regretted that so many claims had been brought forward at once; but that arose from necessity, and not one of these claims but was based upon the law. It would be impossible for any plaintiff, whether he proceeded in a Court of Law or in a Court of Equity, to establish a title to tithes which for years had been dormant, to succeed when it became an issue before a Jury. The weight of prejudice he would have to contend with would be such as to make it necessary for him to show not merely the legality, but the righteousness of the demand, before he could proceed. If they were to legislate upon it, why not legislate in the most efficient manner? Why not at once suspend all the proceedings that had taken place within a given period to the next Session of Parliament? He took it for granted the present Bill was the herald of good things to come, and that it was intended these evils should be put a stop to by some wholesome legislation, which would at once extinguish all the causes. If that were so, why not at once suspend all proceedings under writs which had been issued, he would say within the last two months? He really thought the present measure, when it came to be reflected upon, was fraught with danger and difficulty. In his opinion, tithes were a species of property which certainly
 833
 The Solicitor General  congratulated the Church and the clergy on their new defender, and hoped, that the recently formed friendship of the hon. members for Oxford University, and Colchester, in defence of the Church, might prove lasting. He agreed, that tithes were a property, but then they were to be dealt with as other property. Now land could not be recovered after twenty years' quiet possession, and it was only proposed that a custom of paying tithes in a particular manner should not be disturbed after it had existed for sixty years. That was the object of Lord Tenterden's Act; but the clause which had given rise to those actions was one that, in fact, defeated the whole object of that Act. Under that clause, the law being the same as before that Act passed, and by the law, though a modus might be shown to have existed for hundreds of years, if it could not he proved to have had its origin before the time of legal memory, it was bad. Within the last two years, a modus of that sort had been set aside. He did not call that justice, but gross injustice.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had a precedent for the Bill, and one, too, to which the clergy were parties. In 1796 or 1797, upwards of 1,000 actions were commenced in the King's Bench against clergymen for penalties for non-residence; and what did the clergy do? Come forward and pay the penalties, and so stop the suit? No, they came before the then Parliament, and got the actions stayed for a year. Next year the same, and the next year again. Then, in 1802, Parliament did what he hoped that House would do next Session—quash the actions entirely; and as it then relieved the clergy from the penalties, would now
 834
 Mr. William Brougham  agreed with hon. Members, that the Bill was an infraction of the law; but was it not also a case of the strongest necessity? The number of actions had been multiplied so enormously, that great injustice must be the consequence if the Bill were not passed. He was informed that, in the Exchequer alone, there had been upwards of 4,000 writs issued within the last two years, making, with those in other Courts, 8,000 in all—if ever there was a case of stern necessity that was it. He would ask, what right the Rector of Kendal had to 10,000 l
 Colonel Evans , although he had great objections to the system of police, felt it his duty to bear testimony to the unimpeachable characters of both the Commissioners, especially Colonel Rowan, with whom he was personally acquainted. As to the case of the spy, which had been adverted to by the hon. member for Oldham, a clearer case had never been made out, and he could not believe that the superintendent was ignorant of the man's proceedings. He hoped that Government would take into consideration the propriety of visiting this man's conduct with something further than dismissal. With respect to Mr. M'Lean, he did not consider him fit to hold his present situation, for he was in the habit of employing as many as twenty persons in plain clothes. Such conduct could not be too strongly deprecated, and he must say, that it tended greatly to increase the prejudices against the police-system. The expense, too, of the system was much greater than that of the old. The whole expense of the watch, in the districts where the police were now stationed, was 137,000 l l 837
 Mr. Lamb  said, that, with regard to the case alluded to by the hon. member for Oldham, he was of opinion that it called for the interference of the Secretary of State. The proof of Popay being a spy was certainly complete, with the exception of that part of the assertion which related to the recommending assassination, but he (Mr. Lamb) had been advised that he could not succeed in prosecuting him in Court, unless he relied on the odium that generally attended spies—for that reason he did not think it his duty to prosecute him, but he wished it to be known that Popay was dismissed from the police. With regard to Mr. Wm. Dean, whose offence was that of having expressed very strong opinions respecting the Calthorpe street meeting, where he was not present, when he was examined, his language was so violent as to induce a belief that his mind was affected. As to what had been said by the gallant Officer, about policemen being employed in plain clothes, it certainly did appear that twenty of them had been so employed at different times, for the purpose of detecting felonies, but the twenty had never been employed all at one time. It was to be recollected, that before this force was formed at all, all the officers that were employed were nothing more nor less than policeman in plain clothes. It had been very much considered by Sir Robert Peel, whether they ought to wear uniform or not; and, upon the whole, it was considered better that they should wear uniform. Although this had been so decided, it would be impossible for them to leave off wearing plain clothes altogether. As to the ex pence of the police, the accounts were regularly laid on the Table, and it was to be hoped the rates in future would not press so heavily as to be the source of any prejudice against the police.
 Lord Hotham  said, that without involving other cases in the present, he thought the police force of the metropolis and its vicinity highly valuable, and he would, therefore, add his testimony to that of the hon. member for Lambeth. The only object of the Commissioners must be to carry into effect the intentions of the Legislature and the directions of the Executive Government. The more the system was inquired into, the more the public would be satisfied that great praise was due to those individuals, in the discharge of a duty equally invidious and laborious. He did not deny that the system might be improved; but it was to him, and, he believed, to others, a matter of surprise, that so little
 839
 Mr. Lynch  congratulated the House on the great and important improvements which had been effected; but he looked upon them only as an instalment of what was due, for much yet remained to be done. He thought it would be a great deal better that the masters and clerks
 831 l
 Mr. Hawes  said, the House and the public ought to feel indebted to the hon. member for Oldham, for the manner in which he had brought those proceedings forward. There was no doubt that Popay well deserved the appellation of a spy, and he thought that the superintendant was very remiss in his duty, for not exercising proper vigilance over Popay, who, it was proved, had attended meetings of the National Union. With respect to the Commissioners, he knew of no two men of more honourable character. As to the expense of the New Police, the hon. and gallant officer (Colonel Evans) had underrated the real amount of the old police, for the Trustees of the Roads paid the expense of watching those roads formerly, and that the public did not know the amount of; whereas these roads were now watched by the New-Police.
 Mr. Harvey  could not, on the present occasion, withhold the expression of his sincere though humble thanks, for the alterations which had been made by this Bill in the Chancery offices. He congratulated the House the more on the great and substantial improvements which had been effected, inasmuch as it was impossible for them to conceive the great difficulties with which those who had done so much had been surrounded. Although he highly appreciated the measure in a financial point of view, he trusted that it was only subordinate to great improvements that were still to take place, and was to be looked upon only as an earnest on the part of that distinguished individual who held the highest office in the law of his substantial, sincere, and honest desire to make this Court one which he proved in reality, and not in name, a Court of Equity.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, the hon. member for Oldham was entitled to the thanks of the House, for bringing forward the Motion. He considered Mr. M'Lean's conduct to be such as to deserve severe censure; and he doubted much whether he ought to be continued in the service. With regard to the conduct of the Commissioners, in their peremptorily dismissing any person from the police, it was but proper that they should have such a power; and, looking at Dean's conduct, he could not say that he had been improperly dismissed. The hon. member for Oldham had
 838
 Mr. Cobbett , in rising to bring forward his Motion relative to the Report of the Committee on Dean's Petition against Popay, the spy, said, it was not his intention to say anything that might irritate or annoy his Majesty's Ministers. The people ought to be, and he believed were, satisfied with the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers, as far as related to the inquiry upon that petition, at least, as far as the matter had already gone. But it ought not to stop at the point of inquiry—the Ministers were expected to do something more. Every allegation in the petition had been proved to the satisfaction of the Committee, and, as the members of that Committee would declare, the witnesses in support of the petition bad behaved in the most correct and proper manner, it must be in the recollection of the House, that Sir Charles Worsley had been imprisoned and lined for using words much less seditious than those used by Popay, and certainly with no such
 835 836
 Mr. Cobbett  wished only to say a few words in reply, particularly on the charge of prevarication he had formerly brought against the Commissioners. By prevarication he meant shuffling, and it was established by the testimony taken before the Committee. In their conduct, as regarded Popay, he attributed to them nothing more than laziness; he charged them with not making themselves duly acquainted with facts; for had they known them, they could not have kept such an odious wretch in their employ. He was convinced, that a bad impression would be produced on the minds of the people, unless a fit degree of vigilance were kept up, in order that criminals and persons unworthy their situations might be dismissed from the force.
 Sir James Graham  rose to move an Amendment to the Act relative to the naval service. By the terms of the Appropriation Act, as it at present stood, all services performed within the year should be paid within that period. Now, it often happened, that sailors who were on a foreign station could not be paid within the year. He should move an Amendment, the object of which was to make the practice and the words of the Act conform to each other. The navy estimates were divided in eighteen votes. Eleven of them could be applied exactly as directed by the Act, but the seven others, including seamen's wages, the cost of victuals, and the freight of convict ships, could not be paid at the moment the quarter became due, for there was often no person to receive the sums due at that moment. He moved an Amendment with a view to meet that difficulty.
 The Solicitor General  approved of the dismissal of Popay, against whom such a case had been established, that it would be disgraceful to continue him on the police. Whether any further punishment should be inflicted upon him or not, was a different thing. The House should recollect what a flagellation he had got from the hon. member for Oldham, and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would think that all-which it was necessary to do had been done.
 The Solicitor General , in moving the third reading of the Chancery Office Bill, said, he would shortly state the effects to be produced by the measures now in progress for Reforming the Court of Chancery. Thirteen offices which had long existed, and which were nearly sinecures, were abolished or regulated. The old system upon which these offices were conducted was this—there was the chief sinecurist who did nothing; he appointed a deputy, who was allowed a larger salary than
 829 
 
 Present Income of principal. Ditto or Deputy, and Expences. Future Income saving. 
 Clerk of Hanaper £2,800 £550 £200 £3,150 
 Clerk of Crown 1,100 1,000 800 1,300 
 Clerk of Patents 810 393 400 805 
 Registrar of Affidavits 1,800 1,000 1,000 1,800 
 Clerk of Custodies 1,347 375 200 1,522 
 Clerk of Presentations 43 100 50 93 
 Clerk of Dispensations 316 50 266 
 Patentee of Spa 352 682 1,034 
 Chan. Wax 1,300 400 60 1,650 
 Sealer 800 200 50 950 
 Prothonotary 100 abolished 100 
 Patentee in Bankruptcy 7,500 1,500 9,000 
 18,268 6,202 2,800 21,670 l l l l l 
 
 Present Income. Future Salaries. Saving to Public. 
 Masters' averaging 3,900 l £39,000 £25,000 £14,000 
 Their Chief Clerks averaging 1,300 l 13,000 10,000 3,000 
 The Master of Report Office 4,300 1,000 3,300 
 The Registrars and their Clerks 27,800 14,050 13,750 
 The Two Examiners 2,400 1,400 1,000 
 £86,500 £51,450 £35,050 
 
 It was proposed in future to pay the Masters from the Suitors' Dead Fund, so that the actual saving in all future suits would be the total of the Masters' present income 39,000 
 Savings by their Chief Clerks 3,000 
 Savings by Registrars and Clerks 13,750 
 There would thus be a gross saving to suitors in two Offices alone, of per annum £55,750 830 l
 Mr. Hill  took that opportunity to ask if it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to afford any additional privileges to the
 867
 Colonel Evans  presented a petition from the householders of Castle-street, St. Martin's Westminster, complaining of the length of time the business of that part of the metropolis had been obstructed by the erection of the new buildings in the vicinity of Charing-cross, and praying that if a national gallery was built in Trafalgar-square, some communication might be left in a direct line between Castle-street and Charing-cross.
 Mr. Todd  said, it was to be regretted that the discussion on that subject had not taken place while the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests was in his place. He must complain much of the manner the Bill on this subject had been smuggled through the House, and also as a parishioner of St. Martin's, of the delay which had taken place in the erection of the public buildings in Trafalgar-square. He likewise expressed his regret, that the public had not been admitted to the interior of Regent's Park, and wished to know the reason of their exclusion from such a healthful spot.
 Lord Ormelie  expressed his disapprobation of the exclusive right given to the Royal Academy, and thought that, unless it was fairly open to the whole body of artists, it could not be called a National Gallery.
 Mr. Warburton  regretted that Whitehall Chapel had not been made use of for the purpose of a National Gallery. It would effect a direct saving of 80,000 l 868
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, his noble friend (Lord Duncannon) had used his best endeavours to remedy the evil complained of by the petitioners. It had been intended to have given a passage even when the national gallery should be built. He assured the hon. Member, that every attention would be paid to the suggestions of the petitioners.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that no new privileges were intended to be given to the Royal Academy. It was only intended to give them, not as a gift, but in a way of occupation, as they had at Somerset-house, the use of some rooms in the gallery, in order that the Government might concentrate all their offices in Somerset-house which would be the means of greatly increasing the convenience and lessening the public expense.
 Mr. Spring Rice  declared, that Government had carried no Bills through the House in the morning that were not known to be unopposed. The one more particularly referred to by the hon. Member had proceeded as far as the third reading, without any kind of opposition. The delay, therefore, complained of in the erection of the National Gallery could not fairly be attributed to the Government. The vote of 10,000 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  objected to the whole population of the country being taxed to pay for the erection of metropolitan buildings. It was a subject that ought to be more closely watched by the county Members.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he should now, at this last stage of the Bill, declare his opposition to it. He was opposed to it upon principle, looking on it, as he did, to be an interference with the rights of a large class of men, who, in his opinion, had been most unfairly treated. There was scarcely any attack which had not been made on them; yet, in no one instance, had they exceeded the limit of the law. The rights they were now attempting to enforce, more for their successors than for themselves, were secured to them by law, and by the law they had to act. The Bill of last year was a compact between the rights of the tithe-owners, lay and clerical (for he must again repeat, that this was not a question with the Church alone), and the public. The tithe-owners were warned by that Bill, that if they did not take care of their interests within a given time, they would for ever he foreclosed. Upon that warning, they had acted, and now they had done so, the hon. member for East Cumberland asked the Legislature to interfere to violate the compact that had been made, and take away the lights which the Bill of last year
 869
 The Solicitor General  said, that after bestowing the greatest deliberation on this subject he had come to the determination to give the Bill his support, from a conviction that such was his duty. It had been said, that this Bill was contrary to the general principles of legislation; he admitted it; but then his answer was, that there might be extraordinary emergencies in which it would be the duty of Parliament to depart from common rules. It was said, that the Legislature had saved to the tithe-owners this one year, within which they might bring their suits, or they would be foreclosed for ever. He was sure, that, if these consequences could have been foreseen. Parliament would not have allowed this year of grace, or rather of vexation. From the information communicated to him by his hon. friend, the member for East Cumberland, he was authorized in saying, that 9,000 suits had been instituted for tithes in cases where there had been a modus. What was the consequence of that, in the way of expense alone? Taking these suits to cost 2,00 l l 870
 Mr. Tooke  thought there were objections to the wording of the Act. In his opinion it would go further than was intended by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Sinclair  thought this a bill for the protection of the Church, and not for its injury. He should support the Bill.
 Mr. Lynch  was opposed to the principle of interference which this Bill recognized,
 871
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped, that the House would adopt this measure, though it was not, perhaps, framed in the best possible manner. He admitted the objections to this mode of legislation, and said, that nothing could justify this Bill but the interests of the community at large. He believed, that the Bill was necessary, and that there could be no gentler mode of carrying its object into effect than to suspend the actions for tithes.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had several petitions in favour of the measure. The feeling excited against the clergy by these actions was considerable. The Bill would be rather a benefit than an injury to them; and as for the principle of the legislation, that was justified by the precedent of 1800, in which the Legislature had interfered to save them from the consequences of numerous actions for non-residence.
 Colonel Evans , adverting to the foreign policy of the present Administration must say, that he felt considerable confidence in the manner in which they were conducting the intercourse of this country with the European powers; but before Parliament separated for the recess, he wished to call the attention of the House to one or two topics. He hoped, that the noble Lord would give them some expectation favourable to the cause of
 873
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the Lords had made any change abolishing the British Courts proposed to be created under the Bill as sent up from the Commons. The Lords' Amendment merely went to remove the generality of the terms in which the enactment respecting these Courts was couched. The Bill as it now stood, instead of abolishing those Courts, limited them to Canton.
 Mr. George F. Young  observed, that since there had been one reduction of duty from 20 s s s s d
 Mr. Warburton  said, he fully concurred with the hon. member for London, that there should be no interference with the opium trade.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped, that Donna Maria would speedily be recognized by England. The declaration made by the noble Lord on a former day with respect to Poland, had given the greatest satisfaction; and he hoped, that by Europe at large, the cause of Poland would not be considered as having been by any means decided, but rather as remaining in abeyance. He had but to add, if Russia and Turkey had concluded a treaty offensive and defensive, so should France and England.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  reminded the noble Lord, that there was one question he had left unanswered—namely, whether the Porte, previously to having asked for assistance from Russia, had made a similar demand from the government of this country.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  expressed his full approbation of the changes effected in that measure by the other House of Parliament.
 Mr. Macaulay  was, he confessed, surprised to find that the hon. member for Oxford should consider that tonnage had been out of use for centuries, when it was a matter of notoriety, that at all times tonnage had been, and was at present, levied in all our Crown colonies.
 Mr. Crawford  wished to inquire from the noble Lord near him, whether it was
 872
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that it was not his intention to follow the observations of the hon. Members who had just addressed the House, but to inquire whether there really had been concluded a treaty offensive and defensive between Russia and Turkey? He must confess, that he had no other knowledge of any such important transaction than what he derived—not through the Government—but from the perusal of the intelligent correspondence that appeared in the  Morning Herald. 874
 Sir Robert Inglis  likewise approved of those Amendments, especially that which had reference to British Courts of Justice to be established in China. He censured in strong terms the proposed imposition of tonnage—a tax that had not been enforced for more than 200 years, and which, when last attempted, had been resisted to the death. The hon. Baronet then went through the several amendments, and expressed his concurrence in all. The Bill as it passed the House of Commons gave an unrestricted power to his Majesty's Ministers, and the advantageous alterations which had been effected in it restraining that power had been made by the unreformed House of Lords.
 Lord Althorp  said, that certainly there was no intention of interfering with any trade excepting that which was carried on by British subjects.
 Lord Althorp  could not agree to the proposed change from 5 s s d
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the House, and the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, that he felt it at all times a duty and a pleasure to give them every information connected with his department that he could afford, consistently with the duty he owed the public. He did not mean to follow either the hon. and gallant Member, or the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson), through all the topics they had thought fit to advert to, because he considered that in doing so they were rather expressing their own opinions than putting questions to him which he was bound to answer. He thought it right, however, to correct one mistake into which the hon. and gallant Member had fallen with respect to Portugal. The hon. and gallant Member had stated, that Russia had prevented England and France from interfering with Portugal, and that, as Russia had done so, both this country and France should have entered into an alliance to prevent Russia from meddling with the affairs of Turkey. The hon. and gallant Member was very much mistaken if he thought that they had been influenced by Russia in respect to the conduct they had pursued towards Portugal. The line of conduct the British Government had pursued was that which they deemed consistent with the honour of the country, and consistent with that public policy they had uniformly adopted. He repeated, that in their conduct towards Portugal, they had not been influenced by what might be the opinions of Russia, nor by what might be the opinions of any other government of Europe. So much he said for the Government of this country, and he thought that he might go equally as far
 875
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was true that such a demand had been made in the course of last August by the Porte, before it had applied to Russia for assistance. The application that had been made to the country on the part of the Porte was for maritime assistance, and his Majesty's Government, from the nature of circumstances had not thought fit to grant the application.
 Colonel Evans  had very great respect for the intentions of the hon. Member, but he must protest against the adoption of the course he had advocated, for he seemed to argue the case as that of a Chancery suit and a matter of private property, without any reference whatever to the public. If the course recommended by the hon. Member should be adopted, he (Colonel Evans) would venture to say, that the distribution of the money would be delayed for ten years longer. The hon. Member had alluded to the recent and important discoveries which had been made in regard to the correspondence, but he (Colonel Evans) did not believe those discoveries were of any great importance, so far as the great body of the captors were concerned. He respected the great services of Generals Hislop and Smith; but there was a numerous class of more humble captors, who ought to be considered. If the proposition were acceded to, it would entirely defeat the objects of the public with regard to prize property. There was no reason to suppose the Government wished to act partially in this matter, but they had certainly acceded too easily to individual importunity. He would earnestly request the Treasury to decide the question without any further judicial proceedings whatever, for he was convinced that the great body of the surviving captors—for vast numbers of them were dead—would be perfectly content with whatever decision the Government might come to.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to ask the question of which he had given notice, relative to the Deccan prize money. It was, whether, after the important discoveries which had taken place with regard to that fund, the Treasury would not think it fit to give the parties a regular hearing, at the Treasury itself, or to refer to the Court of Admiralty, or to a Special Commission. The facts were these—on the 22nd of June, 1825, a letter was addressed by the trustees to the Treasury, regarding the manner in which they would recommend the distribution of the money to take place, and pointing out certain facts which they thought they had discovered during their investigation. On the 14th of September following, they wrote another letter to the Treasury, stating, that on reconsidering the case, they wished to withdraw the first letter, and to substitute another of a very different nature; in fact, altogether at variance with that of the 22nd of June. When the case came to be argued before the Treasury in 1826, the substituted letter was referred to on the part of the Counsel for the Crown, but the whole of the information was withheld from the parties. The trustees were present at the argument, and were in possession of the facts stated both in the orginal and published letter. The latter document had been completely falsified, inasmuch as a most important paragraph was omitted. Other documents of a most important nature, which were in possession of the Marquess of Hastings, had been withheld from the other party, and if such irregular proceedings were allowed to go on, the whole of the judicial inquiry which had been instituted would be of no avail. He, therefore, wished to know, whether it was the intention of the Treasury to divide the money before another hearing was given to those parties who had been deprived of that information to which they were clearly entitled. If the parties were allowed to be heard, they would be enabled to point out many errors, and to adduce such reasons as he had no doubt would lead Ministers to postpone
 898
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose for the purpose of asking some questions respecting the foreign policy of the country, which he was anxious to have answered, as far as the noble Lord could consistently with his public duty, develope the plans of his Majesty's Government. He was rejoiced at the course which Government had at last adopted towards Donna Maria: but, in other respects, he must say that he was much dissatisfied with the general policy pursued by Government for many years past, in relation to Spain, Italy, Turkey, and Poland. With regard to Portugal, however, he was satisfied with what had now taken place; and he could not but express a hope, that, with regard to Poland and Turkey, Government would soon pursue such measures as the honour and interests of this country imperatively demanded. With regard to Turkey, he would merely remark, that it was generally believed that Russia had gone so far as to threaten England if she interfered and granted assistance to Turkey. His first question was, whether the noble Lord was aware of the existence of a treaty lately entered into between Holland and the United States of America, which he understood was very ominous to the interests of England? Secondly, he wished to know what were the reasons which induced Government, in August last year, to refuse assistance to Turkey, when asked by the Porte? Thirdly, whether the noble Lord was really aware of the offers made to England on that occasion by the Pacha of Egypt, which he understood were really of a very extraordinary character? Fourthly, what was the object of Lord Durham's late mission to Prussia, and with what success it had been attended? And lastly, as Count Orloff was soon afterwards sent over to England, what reception he had met with at his Majesty's Court.
 Mr. Crawford  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Officer, and he hoped that no further delay would take place in the distribution of the money.
 Lord Althorp  said, the House was aware that the papers relating to this question had been laid upon the Table, and it was his intention to apply himself to the substantial merits of the question. It was necessary, however, that, to a certain extent, he should make himself master of those papers, before he could possibly give any direct answer to the question put by the hon. Member opposite. The Privy Council, as had been stated, had referred the matter to the Treasury, which had to decide whether they should think it their duty to hear the case argued before them, or act upon the former decisions. But it was impossible
 899
 Viscount Palmerston  hoped, that the hon. Gentleman would not consider it any want of courtesy or of respect to him personally if he (Viscount Palmerston) should be obliged from public duty to decline answering in detail some of the questions proposed. With regard to the first question, he had no official knowledge of any treaty lately concluded between Holland and the United States, so that he could give no information upon that subject. With respect to the second point, the reasons which induced Government not to comply with the request made by the Porte for naval assistance, he was happy to correct an error as to dates. He was reported to have said on a late occasion, that that request had been made in the month of August last year—he said, however, in autumn last year. In fact, it was in the month of October that the application was made. Without giving any very detailed explanation of the matter, he would only remind the House, that when we were embarking in naval operations in the North Sea, and on the coast of Holland, and were under the necessity of keeping up another naval force on the coast of Portugal, it would have been impossible to have sent to the Mediterranean such a squadron as would have served the purpose of the Porte, and at the same time have comported with the naval dignity of this country; and as Parliament was not then sitting, Government could not acquiesce in the request made by the Sultan. He could assure the hon. Member, that if any person imagined, that, among other motives which influenced the conduct of his Majesty's Government, there was anything like a threat on the part of Russia, they were entirely mistaken. On the contrary, it was but justice that he should state, that so far from Russia having expressed any jealousy as to Government granting that assistance, the Russian ambassador officially communicated to him (Viscount Palmerston) while the request was still under consideration, that he had learned that such an application had been made, and that, from the interest taken by Russia in the maintenance and preservation of the Turkish Empire, it would afford satisfaction if Ministers could find themselves able to comply with the request. With regard to there having been any communication with the Pacha of Egypt, the hon. Gentleman had not explained to what he alluded, therefore the House would excuse him from saying more than that as it was a war against a Sovereign by a subject, and as
 901
 Colonel Evans  said, that even at this late period, he felt it his duty to submit a Resolution to the
 908
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that if the facts disclosed before the Committee should be made out, it would be the duty
 910
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that though there was information contained in the report quite sufficient now to proceed upon, yet he felt great satisfaction in hearing what had just fallen from the noble Lord opposite, whom he believed to be sincere in his declaration to do justice to the dignity of the House.
 The Speaker , attended by the Members present, proceeded to the House of Lords, and, after some time, returned. Standing at the table, he read to the House the speech which had been delivered from the throne; for which see Lords' Debates,  ante
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that he thought it would be difficult for the hon. and learned member for Kircudbrightshire, to prove that there was any ground for indictment. He took the liberty of denying that the statute law or the common law, made it an offence for a Peer of the realm to give his vote or interfere at an election; the offence, if any, was only against a resolution of that House. In confirmation of that opinion, he referred to the conduct of the late Duke of Norfolk, who invariably and openly went and gave his vote at elections for Members for the House of Commons, He was proceeding testate, that the late Earl of Winchilsea used to proceed in state, drawn by six horses, to the places of election, and then give his vote; but the hon. Baronet suddenly concluded, understanding that the Black Rod was approaching.
 Sir Robert Inglis , on presenting the forty-second report from the Select Committee on Public Petitions, took that opportunity to observe, that there had been presented a greater number of petitions than had ever been presented during any former Session of Parliament, and that the House had sat a much longer time than had distinguished any previons Session. It might be deemed a cruel mockery to compare their labours with the factory labours; yet a slight reference to facts would show that the duties of Members of that House had been severe in the extreme, judging from the duration of time. It appeared by a very ably drawn paper, that the House had sat twice as many days as some former Sessions, and nearly three times as many hours as the Session of 1826; during which, the House of Commons sat sixty-four days, and 457 hours. Even during the long Reform Session of 1831, the House sat only ninety-eight days or 918 hours; but up to yesterday, the House had sat during the present Session 142 days, and 1,270 hours. The Session of 1806 had lasted 125 days, and 645 hours, an average of five hours a-day. In 1811, the House sat 135 days, and 588 hours, being an average of four hours and a half a-day. In 1814 it sat 127 days, and 476 hours, being an average of less than four hours a-day. As he had already stated, the present Session had sat 1,270 hours. Before Easter the House had often sat nine hours a-day; since Easter it had often sat considerably more than twelve hours a-day; the average for the whole Session, however, was nine hours a-day. He begged to remark, that the results which he had here detailed were not stated from inquiries of his own, but they were the details of a most intelligent and valuable officer of the House (Mr. Rickman); but in whose presence he would say no more. They were partly derived from the examination of the "votes" of the present Session, and partly from the report of the Select Committee of which Sir Robet Peel was Chairman; and for some of the most curious particulars laid before that Committee, they were indebted to the same intelligent officer.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  hoped the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, would rest content with the declaration of the Government, and not persevere in his Motion at this period of the Session.
 Lord Althorp  had, certainly, not expected that any Motion such as the present, would be brought forward on the last day of the Session and more particularly that it should be done without notice, and in the face of a notice now on the votes for the next Session, when the charge which had been made against the noble Earl could be fully investigated. The hon. Member by his Motion called upon the House to direct a prosecution without affording the House an opportunity of investigating the merits of the case. It was observed by the hon. and gallant Member, that his (Lord Al thorp's) answer had caused great astonishment amongst a great portion of the country. Now, as that answer was but given
 909
